 
•	 Q3 2016 Exxon Mobil Corp Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q2 2016 Exxon Mobil Corp Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q1 2016 Exxon Mobil Corp Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q4 2015 Exxon Mobil Corp Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q3 2015 Exxon Mobil Corp Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q2 2015 Exxon Mobil Corp Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q1 2015 Exxon Mobil Corp Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q4 2014 Exxon Mobil Corp Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q3 2014 Exxon Mobil Corp Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q2 2014 Exxon Mobil Corp Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q1 2014 Exxon Mobil Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q4 2013 Exxon Mobil Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q3 2013 Exxon Mobil Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q2 2013 Exxon Mobil Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q1 2013 Exxon Mobil Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q4 2012 Exxon Mobil Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q2 2012 Exxon Mobil Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q1 2012 Exxon Mobil Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q4 2011 Exxon Mobil Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q3 2011 Exxon Mobil Corp Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q2 2011 Exxon Mobil Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q1 2011 Exxon Mobil Corp Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q2 2010 Exxon Mobil Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q1 2009 Exxon Mobil Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q4 2008 Exxon Mobil Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q2 2008 Exxon Mobil Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q1 2008 Exxon Mobil Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q4 2007 Exxon Mobil Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final   
•	 Q3 2007 Exxon Mobil Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final   
•	 Q2 2006 Exxon Mobil Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final  
•	 Q3 2003 Exxon Mobil Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final  
•	  Q1 2003 Exxon Mobil Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final 
•	  Q4 2002 Exxon Mobil Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final 
•	  Q3 2002 Exxon Mobil Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final 
•	  Q2 2002 Exxon Mobil Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final 
•	  Abstract of Q2 2002 Exxon Mobil Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final 
•	  Abstract of Q4 2001 Exxon Mobil Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final 


 HD
 Q3  2016  Exxon  Mobil Corp Earnings Call - Final
   WC
11,012 words
   PD
28 October 2016
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©016 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved. 

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day, and welcome to the ExxonMobil Corporation's third quarter 2016 earnings call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time, I would like to turn the call over to the Vice President of Investor Relations and Secretary, Mr. Jeff Woodbury. Please go ahead, sir.

   TD
JEFF WOODBURY, VP OF IR & SECRETARY, EXXONMOBIL CORPORATION: Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning, and welcome to ExxonMobil's third quarter earnings call. My comments this morning will refer to the slides that are available through the Investors section of our website. Before we go further, I would like to draw your attention to our cautionary statement shown on slide 2.

Turning now to slide 3. Let me begin by summarizing the key headlines of our third-quarter performance. ExxonMobil earned $2.7 billion in the third quarter. The Corporation continues to deliver solid cash flow, despite a challenging business climate. Cash-flow results are under pinned by integration benefits from our downstream and chemical segments. ExxonMobil's diverse product portfolio and flexible integrated manufacturing platforms remain a distinct competitive advantage through the business cycle.

We've maintained a relentless focus on business fundamentals. While we continue to capture market savings in the current environment, we also remain resolute in our drive to implement long-term structural improvements across our integrated businesses. We are well positioned to create value in any operating environment.

Finally, as I will share with you today, the Corporation continues to deliver on its operating and investment commitments. We are effectively progressing selective, strategic investments while maintaining our steadfast commitment to safe, reliable operations.

Moving to slide 4. We provide an overview of some of the external factors affecting our results. We saw modest global economic growth in the third quarter. While the use economy improved relative to the first half of the first year, growth rates slowed in China and remained soft in Europe and Japan.

Crude oil prices were largely flat, although volatile, whereas natural gas prices strengthened on average compared to the second quarter. Global refining margins decreased as production continued to outpace demand, and chemical commodity product margins remained strong, while specialty margins held relatively flat.

Turning now to the financial results as shown on slide 5. As indicated, ExxonMobil's third-quarter earnings were $2.7 billion or $0.63 per share. The Corporation distributed $3.1 billion in dividends to our shareholders.

CapEx was $4.2 billion, down 45% from the third quarter last year, reflecting the Corporation's capital discipline and strong project execution. Cash flow from operations and asset sales was $6.3 billion, and at the end of the quarter cash totaled $5.1 billion and debt was $46.2 billion.

The next slide provides additional detail on sources and uses of cash. So over the quarter, cash balances increased from $4.4 billion to $5.1 billion. Earnings, adjusted for depreciation expense, changes in working capital and other items and our ongoing asset management program, yielded $6.3 billion of cash from operations and asset sales.

Uses of cash, including shareholder distributions of $3.1 billion and net investments in the business of $4.2 billion. Debt and other financing increased cash by $1.7 billion.

Moving now to slide 7 to review our segmented results. ExxonMobil's third-quarter earnings decreased $1.6 billion from a year-ago quarter, due to lower upstream and downstream results.

Corporate and financing costs were approximately flat to the prior-year quarter, although below our guidance which remains at $500 million to $700 million on average over the next few years. In the sequential quarter comparison, shown on slide 8, earnings decreased by $950 million on stronger results in both the upstream and downstream segments as well as lower corporate charges.

Turning now to the upstream financial and operating results starting on slide 9. Third-quarter upstream earnings were $620 million, down $738 million from a year-ago quarter. This result was driven primarily by lower realizations which decreased earnings by $880 million.

Crude prices declined nearly $4 per barrel, and gas realizations fell by $1.13 per thousand cubic feet. Favorable and sales mix effects increased earnings $80 million, and all other items added $60 million driven by lower operating expenses.

Moving to slide 10. Oil equivalent production decreased almost 3% compared to the third quarter of last year, totaling just over 3.8 million barrels per day. Liquids production decreased 120,000 barrels per day, as growth from projects and work programs was more than offset by impact of field decline and downtime events, most notably in Nigeria due to third-party impacts. Natural gas production, however, increased 77 million cubic feet per day, as new project volumes were partly offset by the divestment impacts.

Turning now to the sequential comparison starting on slide 11. Upstream earnings were $326 million higher than the second quarter. Improved realizations increased earnings by $240 million.

Crude realizations decreased by $0.30 per barrel, and gas realizations increased about $0.55 per 1,000 cubic feet. Unfavorable volume and mix effects of reduced earnings by $40 million. All other items increased earnings by $120 million, benefiting from reduced operating expenses and favorable foreign exchange effects.

Moving to slide 12. Sequentially, volumes decreased 146,000 oil equivalent barrels per day or almost 4%. Liquids production dropped 119,000 barrels per day from downtime events, entitlement impacts and field decline. Natural gas production decreased to 161 million cubic feet per day, as lower seasonal gas demand and reduced entitlements were partly offset by project growth and increased volumes from US work programs.

Moving now to downstream results starting on slide 13. Downstream earnings for the quarter were $1.2 billion, a decrease of $804 million compared with the third quarter of 2015. Weaker refining margins reduced earnings by $1.6 billion.

Favorable volume and mix effects, mainly from lower maintenance activities, improved earnings by $170 million. Other items, including lower operating costs, reduced maintenance expenses, and asset management gains increased earnings by $580 million.

As announced in the first quarter, Imperial Oil is selling approximately 500 retail service stations in Canada. To date, more than 40% of these stations have been converted to the branded distributor model, resulting in an earnings impact of $380 million in the quarter.

Turning to slide 14. Sequentially, downstream earnings increased $404 million. Weaker margins reduced earnings by $330 million.

Favorable volume and mix effects, mainly from lower maintenance activity, increased earnings by $240 million. All other items added a further $490 million, mostly from asset management gains and lower expenses.

Moving now to chemical results starting on slide 15. Third-quarter chemical earnings of $1.2 billion decreased $56 million from the prior-year quarter. Favorable volume and mix effects were more than offset by higher maintenance expenses.

Moving to slide 16. Chemical earnings decreased $46 million sequentially, where stronger margins partly offset increased maintenance activity.

Moving now to slide 17. The key to delivering on our investment and operating commitments is our disciplined approach to investment and cost management. We continue to drive capital and operating costs down, especially in the current business climate, with year-to-date CapEx and operating costs lower by a further $12 billion versus the prior-year period.

We strive to build structural advantages into our business while minimizing total life-cycle costs. With our global procurement organization, we leverage our worldwide presence and scale of operations to effectively respond to changing market conditions. Importantly, this includes meaningful engagement with the service sector on developing and implementing lower-cost solutions.

Across our operations and development activities, we pursue unique synergies and innovations throughout the design and execution phases that capture these structural advantages while ensuring high integrity in our operations. For example, by leveraging our fast drill process and flat time reduction initiatives, we've realized cumulative drilling savings of $5 billion over the last decade. Today, these tools are delivering shorter drill times and improved performance in places like Angola, Guyana, and Russia.

A hallmark of our success has been our committed focus across the full value chain on technology development. Not only to develop lower-cost alternatives, but also to enhance integrity and reliability, improve productivity, increase product value, and minimize environmental impact.

On slide 18, we would now like to comment on the reporting basis of crude reserves and acid impairments. Our results are in accordance with the rules and standards of SEC and the Financial Accounting Standards Board. Starting with our oil and gas crude reserves.

As I indicated, our reporting is consistent with SEC rules, which prescribe technical standards as well as a pricing basis for calculation of reported reserves. This pricing basis is a historical 12-month average of first day of the month prices in a given year.

As such, the low price environment impacted our 2015 reserves replacement, resulting in its 67% replacement ratio. This was the net result of natural gas reserves being reduced by 834 million oil crude and barrel, primarily in the US, reflecting the change in natural gas prices, offset by liquid additions of 1.9 billion barrels. Given that year-to-date crude prices are down further from 2015 by almost 25% on the SEC pricing basis, we anticipate that certain quantities of currently booked reserves, such as those associated with our Canadian oil sands, will not qualify as crude reserves at year-end 2016.

In addition, if these price levels persist, reserves associated with end-of-field life production for certain other liquids and natural gas operations in North America also may not qualify. However, as you know, amounts required to be debooked on an SEC basis are subject to being rebooked in the future when price levels recover, or when future operating or cost efficiencies are implemented. We do not expect the debooking of reported reserves under the SEC definitions to affect operations of these assets, or to alter our outlook for future production volumes. And you can find further details of our reserves reporting in our 2015 10-K.

Now regarding asset impairments. We follow US GAAP successful efforts, and under this standard assessments are made using crude and natural gas price outlooks consistent with those that Management uses to evaluate investment opportunities. This is different than the SEC price basis for reserves that I just described.

As detailed in our 2015 10-K, last year, we undertook an effort to assess our major long-life assets most at risk for potential impact. The price basis used in this assessment was generally consistent with long-term price forecasts published by third-party industry and government experts. The results of this analysis indicated that the future undiscounted cash flows associated with these assets exceeded their carrying value. Again, this is detailed in our 2015 10-K.

In light of continued weakness in the upstream industry environment and in connection with our annual planning and budgeting process, we will again perform an assessment of our major long-life assets. Similar to the exercise undertaken in 2015. We will complete this assessment in the fourth quarter, and report any impacts in our year-end financial statements.

Moving to slide 19. I would like to provide an update on efforts to further enhance our development portfolio and advance major projects.

First in Guyana, the Liza-3 appraisal well was successfully completed in October, increasing in our confidence in the area extent of this world-class resource. While the results now confirm the Liza discovery to be in excess of 1 billion oil equivalent barrels. These results are being incorporated into early engineering plans for the initial phase of a 100,000 barrel per day development.

The Stena Carron drill ship will next move to the Pyara exploration prospect located approximately 10 miles to the northwest of the Liza-1 discovery. Pyara is expected to be completed late this year or early next year, after which the rig will move to another exploration opportunity also on the Stabroek block.

In West Africa, the Owowo-3 well, located approximately 56 miles offshore Angola, reached target depth in October and discovered significant oil resources. This well builds on our successful Owowo-2 well drilled in 2012 on the neighboring license. Together, these wells confirm a 0.5 billion to 1 billion barrel oil discovery.

ExxonMobil continues to invest in its exploration activity to grow our prospect inventory across the globe. Recognizing the opportunity presented by current market conditions, we are investing counter cyclically in large-scale seismic acquisition programs.

Through 2016, we've acquired over 60,000 square kilometers of 3-D seismic data covering diverse geological basins around the world. Including Eastern Canada, Mexico, Guyana, Ireland, South Africa, and Mozambique.

These new seismic data will enable us to evaluate recently captured acreage, and ultimately identify new potential drilling locations. ExxonMobil also continues to invest in proprietary research, in advanced seismic imaging, in high-performance computing to enhance our ability to extract maximum value from seismic data.

In addition to our active exploration program, we continue to advance several large-scale developments. The Kashagan project in Kazakhstan achieved a stable restarter production in October. Work is ongoing to safely and gradually increase production to a target level of 370,000 barrels per day over the next year. In Australia, ExxonMobil has shipped four LNG cargos from Gorgon since August, and the second LNG train has now started up.

In Eastern Canada, after transportation from the fabrication yard in South Korea, that Hebron Utilities and Process Module, or UPM, was safely offloaded at the Bull Arm fabrication site in the Canadian province of Newfoundland and Labrador. The topsides, including UPM, will next be mated with the concrete gravity-based structure shown in the background of the photo. Hebron remains on track to start up by year-end 2017.

Moving to slide 20. This slide illustrates the Corporation's year-to-date sources and uses of cash, and highlights our ability to fund shareholder distributions while maintaining our selective investment program. As shown, cash flow from operations and asset sales of $16.9 billion funded shareholder distributions, and together with a moderate increase in debt financing supported net investments in the business.

We continue to maintain our financial flexibility. A competitive advantage that allows us to selectively invest through the cycle and capitalize on unique opportunities.

ExxonMobil generated $4 billion of free cash flow year to date, reflecting capital discipline and the strength of our business. And we remain resolute in our commitment to pay a reliable and growing dividend. Quarterly dividends per share of $0.75 were up 2.7% versus the third quarter of 2015.

Moving now to slide 21. So in conclusion, ExxonMobil remains focused on creating long-term value through the cycle. Year to date, the Corporation has earned $6.2 billion and generated $16.9 billion of cash flow from operations and asset sales, benefiting from the resilience of integrated business.

Upstream volumes were 4 million oil crude barrels per day, and we anticipate that full-year production volumes will be within our guidance of 4 million to 4.2 million barrels per day driven by our value-based choices. ExxonMobil remains dedicated to capital and cost discipline, regardless of the business environment.

Year-to-date capital spending is down 39% to $14.5 billion, and we remain committed to sharing the Corporation's success directly with shareholders through a dividend. Year-to-date dividend distributions totaled $9.3 billion.

That concludes my prepared remarks, and I would now be happy to take your questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions)

Phil Gresh, JPMorgan.

PHIL GRESH, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Good morning, Jeff.

JEFF WOODBURY: Morning, Phil.

PHIL GRESH: The first question is on the capital spending. You continue to see a reduction sequentially in the CapEx year to date, and it's obviously trending well below what you had expected at the beginning of the year.

So I guess my first question is, given the degree that it's lower than you had guided, are you surprised by the degree of savings that you've been able to achieve? And as we look ahead, where are we in this cycle of CapEx savings?

JEFF WOODBURY: That's a really good question, Phil. And I would say that first, I just want to recognize the Organization for how focused they've been on, and particularly in the low price environment, continuing to capture benefits. We, as you've highlighted, have been below our capital guidance to you all, we'll be able to capture the many capital efficiencies.

We've continued to effectively respond to the market and capture market benefits. Importantly, Phil, we've continued to deliver the projects on budget and on schedule.

And as I've said previously, we have adjusted the pace of some of our investments in order to make sure that we are maximizing the value proposition given where we are in the business cycle. If you look at our spending pattern, I would tell you that it's trending towards an outlook of between $20 billion to $21 billion.

PHIL GRESH: $20 billion to $21 billion for the full year?

JEFF WOODBURY: For the full year.

PHIL GRESH: Okay. And then as you look at the M&A activity, there's been a lot of M&A activity in the US shale space lately, some of which has been acreage that's been contiguous to yours. Maybe if you could just comment about how you're thinking about the valuations in US shale today?

JEFF WOODBURY: So as we've talked in the past, Phil, we continue to be very alert to where there may be some value propositions. We are looking for opportunities that would create incremental value. These opportunities need to compete with our existing investment portfolio, and provide accretive strategic long-term value to us.

We have been successful over the recent past picking up on bolt-on acquisitions, particularly in the unconventional business where we saw some of those unique synergies that added the accretive value. We continue to be very alert to where there are opportunities, but as I said, they really need to be able to add incremental value versus the portfolio that we currently have.

PHIL GRESH: Okay. Thanks.

JEFF WOODBURY: Thanks, Phil.

OPERATOR: Neil Mehta, Goldman Sachs.

NEIL MEHTA, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Good morning, Jeff, how are you?

JEFF WOODBURY: Good morning, Neil. How are you?

NEIL MEHTA: Doing well. Jeff, I always appreciate your views on the next near-term oil macro, I know Rex had made some comments out of London talking about a more subdued market over the next couple years. Can you just talk about how you see the balances over the next couple of years, both from a supply and demand perspective? And then I will have a follow up.

JEFF WOODBURY: Neil, if you think back and look at where we've been here in the recent past, I will start with demand. Demand has been generally reasonably strong. When you think about a 10-year average demand growth of somewhere between 1 million to 1.1 billion barrels per day since 2014, we've seem demand growth in excess of that.

So fairly reasonable demand growth in the recent past. If you look focus now on the first part of the 2016, we still continue to be in oversupply situation, with the production exceeding demand by about 1.1 billion barrels a day in the first half. As we anticipated, we our seeing convergence in the second half.

But I will tell you that as you continue to progress that, we'll probably end up this year oversupplied by anywhere from 0.5 million to 0.8 million barrels per day of supply. Of course, all of this is going into commercial inventories. So as you move into 2017, you see that we continue to see convergence, maybe a little bit oversupplied in the year, but I would caution that we've got to recognize that there is still anywhere from 500 million to 600 million barrels of commercial inventory build since the end of 2013 that's got to come out of inventory at some point.

And then of course, there is still uncertainties in the supply trend. Some of the OPEC countries, as well as US unconventionals, will have an influence on the supply-demand balance. So I think when you heard Rex's comments, he was reflecting on all these factors as to how that will impact price in the near to medium term.

NEIL MEHTA: Appreciate that, Jeff. And the follow-up is related to exploration. If you could provide some additional color on both Guyana, where there's been some exploration success with Liza-3, and the opportunities that you see in Nigeria that would be appreciated.

JEFF WOODBURY: So as I said in my prepared comments on Guyana, we were very pleased with the outcome of the Liza-3 well. The well is located just north of Liza-1. It has given us confidence in terms of the aerial extent, the reservoir quality, and thus our communication that we believe we are in excess of 1 billion barrels now.

We are completing the Liza-3 well. As I indicated, we will move onto an exploration well which is to the northwest of the Liza discovery. We are integrating real time all of this well data, and of course we took a very extensive seismic survey, and all of that's being integrated into our development planning.

So in short, I would say we are very encouraged by not only Liza but the prospectivity on the block. We see this as a high-quality asset for the Corporation.

Pivoting over to Nigeria and the Owowo development. I would tell you that this is a continuation of an initial discovery. The Owowo-3 well appraised part of that to initial discovery, but also discovered new hydrocarbon columns in a deeper objective.

So again, very encouraging. As I said in my prepared comments, we're thinking anywhere between 0.5 billion to 1 billion barrels of oil discovery and we will clearly integrate that into our development planning. I think I will also note that the Owowo-3 well is a really good indication of how the organization and its integration is able to continue to enhance the value proposition.

We saw the potential to add additional resource, we drilled this deeper exploration objective and added significant more resource to the potential development there. So I think it's a great example of that -- about the value (inaudible) bring from the general interest integration of the Corporation.

NEIL MEHTA: Thanks, Jeff.

JEFF WOODBURY: Thank you, Neil.

OPERATOR: Jason Gammel, Jefferies.

JASON GAMMEL, ANALYST, JEFFERIES LLC: Thanks very much. Hello, Jeff. I had two questions for you actually. The first was around the impact of the forward statement that you have and the comments that you made about the crude preserves.

Just trying to understand, in Canada, it looks like in 2015 you actually had some fairly significant positive reserve revisions. And so I'm just wondering if the $7 change that we've seen in WTI from year to year is the primary driver on why those reserves could now potentially be at risk? And is Kearl an all or nothing thing where it would be the full 3.6 billion barrels or would be nothing, if you could just comment around that?

JEFF WOODBURY: Good question, Jason. The first point is that as I mentioned, we're seeing almost a 25% reduction in prices on an SEC basis year to date. Now of course we need to wait until we get the last two data points for that calculation. But given what we were seeing, to this point, we felt it was appropriate to signal the potential impact from the SEC pricing basis on crude reserves.

Yes, we did add some resumes in Kearl in 2015, and then the drop that we're potentially going to experience in 2016 is all due to the pricing basis. The second question was -- I'm sorry, Jason, was related to what?

JASON GAMMEL: It was really just -- you referenced 3.6 billion barrels in the press release that's related to Kearl. Is that an all or nothing thing, in other words, is it the full operation or -- ?

JEFF WOODBURY: Yes, for the most part, is it. For Kearl itself, you remember it's a very, very long flat plateau. So it would be all or nothing.

JASON GAMMEL: Sure. And are you positive cash margin there right now, Jeff?

JEFF WOODBURY: Well we manage all of our assets to maximize cash flow. I will tell you that the organization has done a remarkable job at Kearl. Remember if I step back a little bit, Kearl is an advantaged asset from the standpoint that we did not put an upgrader in place.

We used proprietary technology in order to avoid that upfront capital investment, and the subsequent operating costs associated with it. The Organization has -- just what we are really primed to do is continue to improve overall reliability of the mine operation, as well as significantly reduce our cost structure there.

They will continue to work on it like we do everywhere. We manage these assets in order to maximize long-term return, and very confident that will happen here at Kearl as well.

JASON GAMMEL: Great. Appreciate your comments, Jeff.

OPERATOR: Evan Calio, Morgan Stanley.

EVAN CALIO, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Good morning.

JEFF WOODBURY: Good morning, Evan.

EVAN CALIO: Maybe my first question is it's a different slant to Phil's prior question. Just given the success that you've had adding resources as a drillbit in Guyana and Nigeria, brownfield opportunity in places like P&G, pretty significant opportunities set.

Does that really contribute to your cautious take so far on the asset market or the acquisition market? Maybe broad and it was asked more for US, but your view on the global market and perceived need and/or interest?

JEFF WOODBURY: Yes, it's a good perspective, Evan. I would tell you it's not either/or for us, we are looking at where can we get the greatest value. But I think you draw out a very important point as it relates to how we manage the portfolio, and that is we maintain an active exploration program that is clearly defined at high grading the value proposition in our portfolio. And you've highlighted some of the important resources.

When we get to the point in the assets life to where we don't think that there's that much incremental value, that's when we put it into our process of considering how else can you monetize that asset. But at the same time, we're also very alert to where there may be some value propositions from acquisitions and I think the InterOil transaction is a really good example. We discovered a substantial resource base in Papua New Guinea, we've continued our exploration activity looking towards an expansion of the existing LNG facility.

In addition to that, we saw the opportunity for synergies, value proposition by acquiring the InterOil and specifically the Elk Antelope resource that we could combine with our existing resources there. With the great success we've had in terms of the operating reliability and the cost structure there, it puts it right up to the top of the portfolio. So think about all of our actions, Evan, as what is the best value proposition, that may come organically or inorganically.

EVAN CALIO: Okay, that's fair. And maybe a follow up on Liza, maybe more just more detail here on how success affects your 17 [wildcatting] program across your various blocks. Potentially adding another rig, and any preliminary thoughts on the affects that development plan you filed in July potentially adding a second FBSO, and maybe clean it up there any color on Pyaray or what you learned from Skipjack?

JEFF WOODBURY: So as I indicated in the earlier question, that we are very encouraged with the progress that we're making at Guyana. I think you also know that we are also very measured in our pace in terms of exploration and development.

We want to make sure that we are not leaving any value on the table. We also want to make sure in the exploration program that we don't get too far ahead of ourselves. We want to make sure that we are fully integrating the learnings into the regional geology so that we upgrade our potential exploration program going forward.

So it's a pace program. It's making sure that those learnings are being fully integrated. And then making sure that when we do discover additional resources or learn important information like we learned at Skipjack, that we integrate that into not only our exploration program but the scope of the full development.

As it pertains to our initial phase development, it's been fairly consistent in the scope as it was conveyed in the permit application we filed for environmental review with the government. I will tell you that this is real time. The Organization is looking for ways to further enhance value, and as we progress that development planning and early engineering we will learn more which will cause us to make adjustments.

But very optimistic about the future in Guyana. And we think we're bringing a lot of value to the government and the people of Guyana.

EVAN CALIO: On the prospect?

JEFF WOODBURY: On Pyaray?

EVAN CALIO: Yes.

JEFF WOODBURY: So I would say it is a similar reservoir for section to Liza, also a stratographic trap. Other than that, it's really too early to say much more.

EVAN CALIO: Great. Thank you.

JEFF WOODBURY: You bet.

OPERATOR: Sam Margolin, Cowen and Company.

SAM MARGOLIN, ANALYST, COWEN AND COMPANY: Good morning, Jeff.

JEFF WOODBURY: Good morning, Sam.

SAM MARGOLIN: I'll start out, it's been a number of years since people have had to think about an OPEC cut and filtering through partners. Can you just remind us the potential impacts to the business, and I'm thinking specifically of Upper Zakum and some other projects that start up next year within member states?

JEFF WOODBURY: Sam, I'm not really good at speculating on what OPEC might ultimately decide to do. I think what's important for you all to think about is that rest assured that we are working to create incremental margin in the business. So directionally, it could impact you on several ways.

One, it could -- there could be restrictions, but we are going to continue to make the value proposition. But at this point, it's just too early to speculate on what we may or may not see from the agreement from the OPEC parties.

SAM MARGOLIN: Understood. Thanks so much. And then I'm curious about this -- the valuation you mentioned in the press release about the -- another chemical complex in the US Gulf.

Does that reflect -- I recall at the Analyst Day there were plans to ramp US unconventional activity that were unveiled. So is this new chemical complex potentially a reflection of you or associated with that at all? And maybe some view on continued, at least localized, length in liquids and other associated products coming out of your oil fields in the US, or is this just a separate economic decision?

JEFF WOODBURY: Like most everything in ExxonMobil, it all starts with our view on the long-term energy supply-demand picture. And when you think about chemicals, the chemical demand growth based on our latest outlook has from a overall perspective chemical grown about 1% above GDP.

And from an ethylene perspective, we're expecting that chemical demand will grow such that you need add about 5 million tons per annum of new capacity per year. And to put that into hardware, that would be three to four world scale crackers per year. So that really is -- that sets up the value proposition.

First, as you know, we are expanding the Baytown complex to add another 1.5 million tons per annum of ethylene capacity, a corresponding investment at Mont Believu, adding derivative units to produce ExxonMobil's high-value metallocene polyalphaolefin. And then we announced, to your question, we announced a potential joint venture with Sabic to jointly own and operate a complex in the US Gulf Coast that would notionally be another ethylene steam cracker to produce ethylene of about 1.8 million tons per annum, and a corresponding derivative units that would be built alongside that.

But I think the value proposition is there, I think we are ahead of the game in terms of making some world scale investments in this. And a very strong component of our chemical business.

SAM MARGOLIN: Thanks so much.

JEFF WOODBURY: You bet.

OPERATOR: Doug Leggate, Bank of America Merrill Lynch.

DOUG LEGGATE, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Thank you. Good morning, everyone, and good morning, Jeff.

JEFF WOODBURY: Morning, Doug.

DOUG LEGGATE: So, Jeff, the new CapEx guidance seems to be following a trend that you've indicated goes lower again next year. But you've also said that in a recovering environment, you could quickly pivot back to unconventionals in the lower 48, and I think the number I have in my head is an incremental 200,000 barrels a day net to Exxon by the end of 2018. Can you just walk us through where you stand on making that decision and whether I'm characterizing it correctly?

JEFF WOODBURY: So if you recall back in the March analyst meeting, we provided a outlook through the end of the decade for our capital investment program. If you remember, we had 2017 flat to down. And of course, the experiences that we've realized during the 2016 will be integrated into that, and we will update that outlook going into the next analyst meeting in March of next year.

As you reflect on our ability to pivot, remember there is two components to our investment program. There's a very large component being our long-cycle investments, and nothing has really slowed down in that regard and how we are working through the maximizing the value proposition for those investments. As I've said earlier, we're trying to take full advantage of the cycle benefits.

On the short-cycle side, you may recall and I think the number you're picking up with is in our unconventional program, we shared in March that we've got the ability to move fairly quick in order to capture a higher price environment in our unconventional program to the order of magnitude of about 200,000 barrels a day by 2018. So we've got a lot of flexibility in our short-cycle program. And when you think about what really sets the balance between short- and long-cycle investment, and the way I think about it from a short-cycle perspective, Doug, it's really maintaining a program in a low price environment that it allows us to continue to build on our learning curve benefits.

You don't want to go much beyond that, because you're trying to also maximize value. So I think we are very well positioned. If you recall in the second quarter of last year of our last earnings call, we shared with you some statistics around our unconventional program where we continue to drop the costs and we have a pretty sizable ready inventory to go ahead and move on.

DOUG LEGGATE: Appreciate the details (inaudible), Jeff. My follow-up, if I may, I'm afraid is back to Guyana again. I wonder if I could just probe a little bit to try and clear up some comments that your partner made. So really about next steps and timing.

My understanding is that you're still on location on Liza-3 looking for deeper objectives. So my question is, are you done there? Have you found lost (inaudible) and oil or an oil watcher contract, and maybe comment on your partner's suggestion that the range of recess is now at the top end of your prior disclosed range?

JEFF WOODBURY: I will start with the second half of the question. And that is that right now, our guidance is that we are likely above 1 billion barrels and really no more detail beyond that at this point, Doug. On the Liza-3 well, we did go ahead and deepen the well.

We were targeting a higher risk deeper interlull that had not previously been penetrated on the block. What I would share with you is that the results were positive, and it does support the presence of oil-bearing sands deeper in the section but it is still very early. This is real-time, evaluation is still ongoing, and that information will be used to integrate not only the Liza but also in the rest of our exploration.

DOUG LEGGATE: So did you find the oil water contact or is there another appraisal well [with bard]?

JEFF WOODBURY: Did we find an oil water contact in the deeper interval?

DOUG LEGGATE: No, in the original section.

JEFF WOODBURY: Well we were targeting -- it goes back to the objective of the Liza-3 well. We were targeting water in the lowermost sands, and we did encounter that water in the sand. We're still evaluating the results from the well, Doug, but it's suffice to say, we're pleased with the results and they are consistent with our pre-gel expectations.

DOUG LEGGATE: Thanks a lot. Appreciate it, Jeff.

JEFF WOODBURY: You bet, Doug.

OPERATOR: Brad Heffern, RBC Capital Markets.

BRAD HEFFERN, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Hey, Jeff.

JEFF WOODBURY: Good morning, Brad.

BRAD HEFFERN: Just to continue the probing, on the deeper interval, is that included in the 1 billion plus barrel resource range?

JEFF WOODBURY: To the extent that I say in excess of 1 billion barrels, yes.

BRAD HEFFERN: Okay. And then I was wondering if you could just give a little more detail around Skipjack? Can you describe at all what happened there geologically, and why it was ultimately a dry hole? And how did it inform the future drilling plans, were prospects eliminated based on that result or was the drilling schedule changed?

JEFF WOODBURY: Skipjack did not find commercial quantities of hydrocarbons, but it did find the same excellent reservoir-quality sands that we see in Liza. We have, as we've been saying, we have numerous additional prospects as well as different play types on the block.

So we are very encouraged by the successes to date, as well as the future exploration wells. There's really nothing more to share on Skipjack at this point. We are still doing some final evaluation, and of course as I alluded to earlier, those learnings are being fully integrated into our exploration program.

BRAD HEFFERN: Okay. Understood. And then switching to Nigeria, certainly very large apparent production impacts in this quarter. Can you talk about what the current status is of your production there, I know you've or at least reportedly recently lifted the [force majeure] there?

JEFF WOODBURY: So when you think about our liquid shortfall versus the third quarter of last year as well as sequentially, it was all primarily driven to the downtime in Nigeria. And there were two third-party impacts, the first one, I think I may have mentioned it in the second quarter earnings call.

The first one had to do with a third-party rig that was transiting that impacted our export line, which had an impact on our production. That issue has been addressed, and the production is back on.

The second one had to do with a third-party impact to the line, and let me just say that we're still investigating it with the government. We do not believe it was accidental or due to a mechanical failure.

BRAD HEFFERN: Okay. Thanks, Jeff.

OPERATOR: Ed Westlake, Credit Suisse.

ED WESTLAKE, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Good morning. I guess there's been press releases out of Mozambique saying you have done a deal with E&I, so I'm just wondering if there's any comments you can make in public on that?

JEFF WOODBURY: Good morning, Ed. I know there's been a fair bit of media interest in this. There's really nothing that I can comment on with respect to those media reports.

You may recall also that ExxonMobil and Rosnef were given the rights to negotiate for a PSE on three offshore blocks in Mozambique, and we are actively working that opportunity. In fact, we're participating in a 3-D survey right now that started up in January, and it's still underway.

ED WESTLAKE: And then the second question, I see a lot of ways that you can get on the offense and we've spoken about a lot of them on the call, maybe we have not spoken enough about integrated value growth in the downstream. But there is this issue around impairments, so if I may, thanks for putting that on the agenda. One of the triggers that you have in your 10-K for impairments is operating losses, and also the US has been in an operating loss for much of 2015 and 2016.

And then oil sands may or may not be in an operating loss, we don't get the disclosure, but let's say it is. I'm just looking in your accounts and your net capitalized costs for consolidated subsidiaries in the US is $83 billion and the in Canada it's $36 billion. So maybe just walk through the process of how you'd go through this impairments, say the trigger was there and how the Corporation would think about the type of impact it might have?

JEFF WOODBURY: As I said in my prepared comments, Ed, we did an assessment in 2015. And in that assessment, as I was very clear in my comments, we saw that the cash flow fully covered the carrying costs of those assets. As I indicated, Ed, we're going to do another analysis very similar to the comprehensive assessment that we did in 2015 and we will report on any results.

But you can see some pretty good detail of what we go through, and in fact, maybe you've already looked at it given your comments in our 10-K that really defines the process pretty clearly. But I really don't have any more to share on the specifics of the mechanics that we go through. But rest assured, we are in full compliance with the rules and standards of both SEC and the Financial and Accounting Standards Board.

ED WESTLAKE: I guess it's -- we could take the RP ratio as a proxy for the years of undiscounted cash flow, and then we can make our own forecasts of how much cash flow you make at the strip and compare that to the carrying value would be at least a first approach to it. I guess I just worry that if you debook reserves then you will have less reserve life to multiply by the cash flow, so then on an undiscounted basis carry against the asset value.

JEFF WOODBURY: I don't have anything else more to add on this, Ed. We will continue to be transparent on this.

That was the whole purpose of putting the forward statement in there. It's part of our normal planning and budgeting process to look at profitability of our assets, and that sometimes causes us to step back like we did in 2015 and do a more comprehensive assessment.

ED WESTLAKE: Okay, so getting on the front foot on this.

JEFF WOODBURY: Yes, okay.

OPERATOR: Asit Sen, CLSA.

ASIT SEN, ANALYST, CLSA: Good morning, Jeff.

JEFF WOODBURY: Morning, Asit. How are you?

ASIT SEN: Good. So two and related questions, first on global gas. Could you remind us what percent of your LNG volume is not under long-term contract? And given slow down in traditional Asian markets, particularly Japan, Korea and Taiwan, are you seeing more incremental opportunities other regional markets, and just wondering if you have any incremental thoughts on European gas picture? And I have a follow-up.

JEFF WOODBURY: On the global gas, first, let me remind everybody that from our energy outlook, we have gas growing about 1.6% and LNG growth just under 3 times where we are in current LNG capacity. As you go forward, and we've said it many times, Asit, that our LNG business is a very important part of our portfolio. I don't have a specific breakdown of our total gas production between pipeline sales and LNG contract sales.

But recognize that a large part of our Asian gas coming from Qatar and Papua New Guinea is under long-term contracts, and a good part of them are liquids linked. So that's about all I can give you on that.

In terms of the markets, clearly, the Asian-Pacific market is important market for LNG. We've got a very expansive marketing organization to go ahead and identify value opportunities. We are primarily interested in locking in long-term contracts, either a point-to-point or a portfolio sale.

You may recall that before we take a project to an LNG project to a final investment decision that we will lock in a majority of those volumes on a long-term contract. We've been really and developed a very strong reputation and credibility with the buyers through our ability to deliver these projects on schedule. And our responsiveness to managing through the contract terms, we've got a new operations center that we've put in place in Asia-Pacific to facilitate the transactions with their many buyers.

ASIT SEN: Okay, thanks. And my second question is on Brazil. It appears Brazil is opening up in the area where Exxon is not really involved. Given Guyana traction that you have now, could you update us on your latest views on Brazil?

JEFF WOODBURY: Brazil is a country that's really blessed with a large endowment of resources. It's really a high-quality resource. Remember how we approach our investment activities is one of making sure that we get attractive returns for our shareholders.

The trends in Brazil have been encouraging. We continue to look for where there could be good value opportunities in Brazil. And certainly if we think that we can get engaged there on resources or exploration activities that will be competitive on a global perspective to the other opportunities that we've got in front of us, we certainly will consider that.

ASIT SEN: Thanks, Jeff.

JEFF WOODBURY: Thank you, Asit.

OPERATOR: Ryan Todd, Deutsche Bank.

RYAN TODD, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Thanks, Jeff. Maybe if could follow up on an earlier question in terms of CapEx trends and activity levels. You've seen, as it was highlighted before, your CapEx year to date is trending well below official guidance, and even at $20 billion to $21 billion for the year is still relatively low, unimpressive to the point where you actually covered CapEx and dividend here in the quarter.

I guess first, with you effectively breaking even in the current environment, I know this is just one quarter. But how should we think about how you manage additional cash flow into 2017 as well when gas price recovers? How do you prioritize an increase in activity levels versus growth and distributions versus a reduction in leverage?

JEFF WOODBURY: That's a good question, Ryan, and I know we've talked about it before but it's always good to update on this issue. As you know, let me first talk about capital allocation. It's one of -- from our cash flow from operations, the first thing the Corporation wants to do is go ahead and pay a reliable and growing dividend.

The next thing is the remaining cash is put towards through to a investment program that has gotten to the point where we believe that we have maximized the value proposition for investments. If we've got enough cash to go ahead and invest it to fund that investment program, then the remaining cash will either be put forward to either stock buyback -- share buybacks or paying down our debt.

If we don't have enough cash, as you've seen us do in the recent past, is that will go ahead and further leverage our very solid balance sheet and debt capacity to take on some additional debt. Because the service costs associated with that debt is more than benefited by the return we get from these investments.

So it's important to recognize that while we are very mindful of prudently managing our cash, we also believe it's very important for us to continue to invest through the cycle and we do that in a very measured way that we're not leaving any value on the table. And that's why and therefore my comments that I made earlier about making sure that we're optimizing value at the bottom of a cycle.

RYAN TODD: Sorry, maybe as a follow-up on that. You'd mentioned earlier on the call how you've -- you guys have done a good job. You've generally maintained a decent amount of investment level on long-cycle type projects.

But when you're looking at this point at you pre FID inventory of projects, can you speak to the progress that you've seen on large-scale conventional projects in terms of cost deflation or abolition in fiscal terms towards enhancing the competitiveness of this part of the portfolio? Or have you seen what you needed to see at this point to let go and kick off investment in that to continue a new investment in that part of the portfolio, or is there more that you need to see at this point?

JEFF WOODBURY: Let's break it up into a couple components, Ryan. First I would say that we want to make sure that all the learnings that we are getting from our capital efficiency efforts year to date are being integrated into those projects. And we've talked about how we do this to reduce the upfront capital invested, like I've talked in the past about progressing projects in parallels that we can benefit from the learning curve in subsequent projects.

So capturing the market response, capturing the capital efficiencies that we built-in in a low price environment as you've highlighted, there's times where we may want to go back and purchase some additional resources or do some exploration like in Owowo to add additional resource to make the investment -- the project investment even more robust. The last thing I'd mention is is the application of technology has been fundamental, absolutely fundamental, to our past success and into the future. And you think about where you're getting those benefits across the full value chain.

From the downstream, our chemical business where we use proprietary technology to provide high-value metallocene, to our unconventional business with the fracking technology. So the application and the growth of these technology solutions has been a key element, and sometimes some of these projects are really waiting on some of the technology work that's underway.

So we've made great progress, I think we are very well positioned. We've got a solid diverse portfolio in which to go ahead and selectively invest into the future.

RYAN TODD: Thanks, Jeff.

JEFF WOODBURY: Thank you, Ryan.

OPERATOR: Anish Kapadia, Tudor Pickering Holt and Company.

ANISH KAPADIA, ANALYST, TUDOR, PICKERING, HOLT & CO. SECURITIES: Hello, Jeff. I just wanted to -- had a question with regards to the way you look at your asset impairments versus -- and the way that you look at acquisitions. I'm just trying to square the facts that you haven't written down assets in 2015, given you've got I suppose a fairly constructive view on with the commodity prices with the opposing fact that you haven't done a deal of the last year or so given that you haven't seen attractive enough assets in the market. Can you just talk about how those two things work together?

JEFF WOODBURY: From my standpoint, there is two separate processes. Our asset management activity is function of making sure that we are capturing opportunities, as I said earlier, that are competitive to our existing portfolio. The objective here is making sure that we are growing shareholder value.

And if we think that we can acquire an asset like the InterOil transaction, that we can add incremental long-term value and we will go ahead and pursue those type of opportunities. Our determination of the asset impairment which we've talked about is a comprehensive process that we follow, and as I said, is detailed in our 2015 10-K and it's a separate process. It's not informing or influencing our asset management activity.

ANISH KAPADIA: Okay. Thank you. And I had a follow-up on Nigeria.

You have -- you've made a number of discoveries in Nigeria, a number of things that you highlighted as potential developments. Could we expect any of these to be sanctioned for development in 2017, and if so which are the ones that are most progressed?

JEFF WOODBURY: Anish, as you highlight, there are a number of projects that we have in our portfolio that we've shared with you all in our F&O. And several of those have gone through various stages of development planning to capture some incremental value. I would tell you that just like any project, there are a lot of variables that we have to address and some of those variables may take some time.

But we continue to actively work with the co-ventures and the government on the Nigeria portfolio. I think the Owowo-3 well is a good example of how we've added some additional value to our portfolio and strengthened that project opportunity.

ANISH KAPADIA: And any that could be sanctioned next year?

JEFF WOODBURY: Anish, we don't pre-communicate our FIDs. But the portfolio that we share with you in the F&O, we have got various stages of development planning underway in those projects. Some of them are in feed, some of them are even more advanced like one of them, like Tangese has been FID'ed. But we don't provide advanced guidance on our FID's

ANISH KAPADIA: Okay, thank you.

JEFF WOODBURY: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Roger Read, Wells Fargo.

ROGER READ, ANALYST, WELLS FARGO SECURITIES, LLC: Good morning, Jeff.

JEFF WOODBURY: Good morning, Roger.

ROGER READ: I guess maybe coming back a little bit to broader cash flow, CapEx questions here. A number of people have asked the question does CapEx -- is it troughing here or does it go up. I guess to some extent, that's going to depend on oil price and cash flow.

But how do you look at it in a world where prices have increased quite a bit from the beginning of the year, and then balancing cash flow, CapEx, any sort of asset disposition plans? And then can you lay out any of the parameters for when we should anticipate a recovery in the share repurchase program, like what do we need to see?

JEFF WOODBURY: I really want to be careful not to speculate on what prices will do in the future. But I will tell you as we discussed a little bit earlier that our investment, our long-cycle investment plans, are progressing. When we believe those investments are at a point of maturity where we have optimized it on value, then we will make an FID decision.

Recall that we're making those decisions by our long-term view on supply and demand, we are very constructive on long-term energy demand. And that's what's really informing those long cycle investments, it's not what's current prices are doing.

Now having said that, we balance that with other factors that we may be able to capture some incremental value in the near term. And it causes us to pace those investments out on a longer cycle in order to make sure that we are fully capturing the value.

On the short-cycle investments, as I alluded to earlier, we want to keep activity levels in the down cycle commensurate with the learning curve benefits that we've been realizing. Such that we are enhancing value across the full portfolio, but it doesn't make sense to do much more beyond that if you recognize the -- you want optimize value. But as we -- as I responded to Doug earlier, we're very well poised to go ahead up and pick activity on the short-cycle investments supported by the business climate and we've got flexibility to do so.

ROGER READ: Sure. Well the correct response on price is always just say fluctuate, right? But in terms of thinking about the share repo side of it, is that a -- you need to be at a point where you're comfortable, you can, let say, maintain roughly flat production levels and generate free cash flow? Or how should we think about balancing production returns, cash flow, and I'm thinking about a more normalized environment which it appears we're headed to over the next year or two?

JEFF WOODBURY: So I'll go back to my discussion on the capital allocation approach. With the buybacks, that's determined each quarter considering a number of at factors. Including the Company's current financial position, our capital requirements, our dividend requirements, as well as what we see in the near-term business outlook. And it's a -- all those variables that are really informed the Company as to whether we believe it's appropriate to go ahead and distribute some of the benefits of the Corporation back to the shareholder via buybacks.

Remember, the Corporation does not believe we should be holding large cash reserves. If we don't have an immediate use to put it to work on, we will go ahead and distribute it. Now, to be clear, that consideration will also be mindful of the merits of going ahead and paying down debt if appropriate.

ROGER READ: Okay, thanks. And just an unrelated follow up, regarding the Kearl assets. Is the indicator there best to use a bitumen price or to use WCS price and that's just for us to do our calculations?

JEFF WOODBURY: I think the benchmark is reasonable -- the WCS benchmark is probably reasonable.

ROGER READ: Okay, great. Thank you.

JEFF WOODBURY: Thank you, Roger.

OPERATOR: Paul Cheng, Barclays.

PAUL CHENG, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Jeff, good morning.

JEFF WOODBURY: Good morning, Paul.

PAUL CHENG: Two quick ones, hopefully. For Liza, do you have already sufficient well data from Liza and Liza-1 and 2 appraisal, if you need to make it FID under any production system or do you need additional appraisal wells?

JEFF WOODBURY: On the Liza Guyana. At this time, I don't think we believe that additional appraisal wells are required prior to a FID decision.

But I would tell you that, as I said earlier, Paul, that we will continue to integrate the data that we've got, and there may be a point where we step back and say given the risk profile we may want to collect some additional data. But right now, it's not planned.

PAUL CHENG: Okay. And on Permian and Bakken, can you tell us what is your number of rig and what is the current production?

JEFF WOODBURY: For Permian and Bakken, I think we've got a total of 10 rigs going in the third quarter.

PAUL CHENG: And what's the production?

JEFF WOODBURY: And production, on a gross operated basis for Permian and Bakken is about 240,000 barrels a day.

PAUL CHENG: And one of your pretty large competitor that was talking about in the preparation of (inaudible) they're going to add some additional weight by November. Just curious that whether Exxon have any preparation of increasing your activities at this point?

JEFF WOODBURY: Paul, as I just said a moment ago, we are very well positioned to respond if we think it's appropriate. But I'm just not going to forecast whether we plan to add anything in the near term.

PAUL CHENG: Thank you.

JEFF WOODBURY: You bet, Paul.

OPERATOR: Iain Reid, Macquarie.

IAIN REID, ANALYST, MACQUARIE RESEARCH EQUITIES: Hello, Jeff.

JEFF WOODBURY: Good morning, Iain.

IAIN REID: Just a quick question, I was intrigued to see a news report that Exxon is considering setting up a trading organization. And I was listening to the answer to your question on LNG and point-to-point deliveries and coverage by long-term contracts.

Can you foresee a situation where Exxon would rather like some of your competitors actually take some of the equity volumes itself from LNG development, and then redistribute via other mechanisms? Because I don't think Exxon has ever done that, you've always been a point-to-point LNG player and never played in the trading or divergent game. So be interested in a comment on that.

JEFF WOODBURY: Thanks, Iain. I'd tell you that by and large, we're probably takers. We don't typically speculate or take positions in markets. Beyond that, in terms of the inter-workings and how we want to manage that going forward, there's really nothing more that I can share.

We continue to be very mindful from an LNG basis, very mindful of what the -- what is of interest to buyers. And I think I referred to being open to the portfolio sales, but we're still very much interested in locking in those contracts on the long term.

IAIN REID: Thanks, Jeff. And as follow up, can I just ask a question about the long term on cash again. Obviously, you're just ramping up the initial phase now, but what is the consortium thinking about in terms of going further than that? Because the resources obviously could support a much larger level of production, and given the fact that you've already got this facility on stream you must be thinking about the next phase now, so that would be interesting.

JEFF WOODBURY: To be real transparent, the joint venture Company and the shareholders have been very focused, and I'm sure you will appreciate this, on getting the initial phase fully up on production and to maximum capacity. As I said in my comments, that will be about 370,000 barrels a day by the end of 2017.

There is a second tranche to that subsequent to reaching 370,000, and that is with additional gas reinjection facilities for sour gas that will take us up to about 450,000. And certainly the joint venture Company and all the shareholders are very focused on given that we've restarted production, now how do we move forward and really maximize value. And that will include at the right time looking at additional resource development.

IAIN REID: Okay. That's clear enough. Thanks, Jeff.

JEFF WOODBURY: Thank you, Ian.

OPERATOR: That does conclude today's question-and-answer session. At this time, I will turn it back over to Mr. Woodbury for any closing remarks.

JEFF WOODBURY: Once again, I want to thank everybody for your time this morning. I thought the questions were very thoughtful and insightful. We, of course, appreciate your engagement, and want to thank you again for your interest in ExxonMobil.

OPERATOR: That does conclude today's conference. Again, thank you for your participation.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
exxn : Exxon Mobil Corporation | opexpc : Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries
   IN
i1300002 : Oil Exploration | i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas Upstream Operations | iexplo : Natural Gas/Oil Exploration | iioil : Integrated Oil/Gas
   NS
c151 : Earnings | nitv : Interviews | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Financial Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020161029ecas006y5
  


 HD
 Q2  2016  Exxon  Mobil Corp Earnings Call - Final
   WC
10,216 words
   PD
29 July 2016
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©016 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved. 

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day everyone, and welcome to this Exxon Mobil Corporation second-quarter 2016 earnings conference call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time I would like to turn the call over to the Vice President of Investor Relations and Secretary, Mr. Jeff Woodbury. Please go ahead, sir.

   TD
JEFF WOODBURY, VP OF IR & SECRETARY, EXXON MOBIL CORPORATION: Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. And welcome to Exxon Mobil's second-quarter earnings call. My comments this morning will refer to the slides that are available through the investors section of our website. Before we go further, I'd like to draw your attention to our cautionary statement shown on slide 2.

Turning now to slide 3, let me begin by summarizing the key headlines of our second-quarter performance. Exxon Mobil earned $1.7 billion in the second quarter. Our cash flow reflects the durability of the integrated portfolio amid industry volatility. In particular, strong chemical results highlights sustainable competitive advantages, including gas and liquids cracking capabilities, along with our differentiated product portfolio. Our financial flexibility enables us to selectively advance new investment opportunities across the value chain. And I'll provide an update on several of these new investments later in the presentation. A

Moving to slide 4, we provide an overview of some of the external factors affecting our results. Global economic conditions were mixed in the second quarter. US growth recovered modestly relative to the weak first quarter. And China showed signs of stabilization. However, Europe and Japan experienced slower growth. Crude oil prices increased, whereas average global natural gas prices decreased sequentially. Global refining margins benefited from improvement in the US Gulf Coast and Midwest. However, chemical product margins weakened due to higher feed and energy costs.

Turning now to the financial results as shown on slide 5. As indicated, Exxon Mobil's second-quarter earnings were $1.7 billion, or $0.41 per share. The Corporation distributed $3.1 billion in dividends to our shareholders. CapEx was $5.2 billion, down 38% from the second quarter of last year, reflecting both prudent capital management and strong project execution. Cash flow from operations and asset sales was $5.5 billion. And at the end of the quarter, cash totaled $4.4 billion and debt was $44.5 billion.

The next slide provides additional details on sources and uses of cash. So over the quarter, cash balances decreased from $4.8 billion to $4.4 billion. Earnings adjusted for depreciation expense, changes in working capital and other items, and our ongoing asset management program yielded $5.5 billion of cash flow from operations and asset sales. Uses of cash included shareholder distributions of $3.1 billion and net investments in the business of $4.1 billion. Debt and other financing increased cash by $1.3 billion.

Moving now onto slide 7 for a review of our segmented results. Exxon Mobil second-quarter earnings decreased $2.5 billion from a year-ago quarter due to lower Upstream and Downstream results. Corporate and financing costs in the quarter were in line with our guidance, which remains at $500 million to $700 on average over the next few years. In the sequential quarter comparison shown on slide 8, earnings decreased by $110 million as stronger Upstream results partly offset lower Downstream and Chemical earnings and higher corporate charges.

Turning now to the Upstream financial and operating results, starting on slide 9. Second-quarter Upstream earnings were $294 million, down $1.7 billion from a year-ago quarter. Sharply lower realizations decreased earnings by $2.2 billion. Crude prices declined by over $16 per barrel. And gas realizations fell by $1.84 per 1,000 cubic feet. Favorable Sales mix effects increased earnings $50 million. And all other items added another $450 million, reflecting reduced operating expenses, the absence of an unfavorable one-time impact from the Alberta tax increase and favorable foreign exchange effects.

Moving to slide 10. Oil-equivalent production was comparable to the second quarter of last year at about 4 million barrels per day. Liquids production was up 39,000 barrels per day, whereas growth from recent project startups was partly offset by the impact of field decline, downtime events notably in Nigeria and in Canada with the wildfires in Alberta. Natural gas production, however, decreased 366 million cubic feet per day, including field decline, downtime and divestment impacts.

Turning now to the sequential comparisons starting on slide 11. Upstream earnings were $370 million higher than the first quarter. Realizations improved earnings by $960 million. Crude increased nearly $12.50 per barrel. However, gas realizations decreased by over $0.50 per 1,000 cubic feet. Unfavorable volume and sales mix effects, including lower seasonal gas demand in Europe and higher downtime, reduced earnings by $280 million. All other items further decreased earnings by $310 million, including higher exploration expenses, lower gains from asset sales and less favorable tax items.

Moving now to slide 12. Sequentially volumes decreased 368,000 oil-equivalent barrels per day, or 8.5%. Liquid production decreased 208,000 barrels per day, mostly from downtime events and entitlement impacts. Natural gas production decreased 962 million cubic feet per day on seasonally lower European demand.

So moving now to the Downstream results starting on slide 13. Downstream earnings for the quarter were $825 million, a decrease of $681 million compared to the second quarter of 2015. Weaker refining margins reduced earnings by $850 million. Favorable volume and mix effects, mainly from improved US reliability and lower maintenance activities, improved earnings by $130 million. All other items increased earnings by $40 million.

Turning to slide 14. Sequentially Downstream earnings decreased $81 million. Stronger refining and marketing margins increased earnings by $80 million. All favorable marketing volumes added $20 million. Other items reduced earnings $180 million, reflecting unfavorable foreign exchange effects and higher maintenance costs.

Moving now to Chemical results, starting on slide 15. Second-quarter chemical earnings of $1.2 billion, or comparable to the prior-year quarter. Stronger commodity margins from both gas and liquids cracking contributed $150 million. Favorable volume and mix effects added $70, while all other items reduced earnings of $250 million, reflecting the absence of asset management gains. Moving to slide 16. Sequentially chemical earnings decreased $138 million due to weaker margins and increased maintenance activity.

The next several charts will provide an update on how the corporation is advancing selective new investments across the value chain to extend our competitive advantage. Chart 17 showcases a good opportunity to add quality resources to our successful L&G operation in Papua, New Guinea. Exxon Mobil has a long and successful history in the global L&G business. And is proud to have started up the Papua, New Guinea L&G project ahead of schedule, given its many complexities. In 2015 PG L&G produced 7.4 million tons per annum, exceeding the original design capacity of 6.9 million tons by 7%. We continue to safely increase plant throughput and improve the liability at low cost. And in this regard, in June we achieved an annualized rate of 8.2 million tons per annum, the highest monthly rate since startup.

To build on this success, Exxon Mobil recently announced plans to acquire InterOil Corporation in a transaction worth more than $2.5 billion, which includes consideration of $45 per share to be paid in Exxon Mobil stock. The agreement also includes a contingent payment which is based on the resource certification of the discovered, undeveloped Elk-Antelope field and is payable above 6.2 trillion cubic feet up to the maximum of 10 trillion cubic feet. Finally, the agreement is subject to InterOil shareholder approval and the other customary closing conditions and regulatory reviews.

This acquisition provides Exxon Mobil access to six additional licenses in Papua, New Guinea totaling about 4 million acres. Elk-Antelope complements our existing discovered undeveloped resources such as [Pinyang], better positioning the co-ventures to expand the existing operation with additional LNG trains. The transaction will allow Exxon Mobil to create unique value for shareholders of both companies and the people of Papua, New Guinea. We look forward to working closely with co-ventures, the government, customers and, importantly, local communities to grow the successful business.

Moving now to slide 18 for an update on Upstream projects and exploration activities where we're advancing several attractive new investment opportunities. Exxon Mobil is on track to achieve 10 major project startups in 2016 and 2017, of which 4 have already initiated production. As shown in the photo, excellent progress continues at Hebron, located offshore Eastern Canada. The utilities and process module fabrication is now complete. And it was successfully loaded out in June from the fabrication yard in Korea for transport to Newfoundland and Labrador, where it will then be installed on a gravity-based structure. Hebron remains on track for a late 2017 startup.

In Abu Dhabi, production is steadily increasing in the Upper Zakum field. Eight drilling rigs are operating on the artificial islands, where gross production has reached 100,000 barrels per day. [Agroget] Upper Zakum gross production is currently about 670,000 barrels per day. And production is anticipated to reach 750,000 barrels per day by 2018. Exxon Mobil also recently sanctioned the Tengiz Expansion Project, which is expected to increase crude oil production capacity by up to 300,000 barrels per day with startup in 2022. Exxon Mobil is a 25% shareholder in Tengizchevroil, the operator of the field.

Now offshore Guyana, we completed drilling operations on the Liza-2 appraisal well. The well test confirmed a world-class discovery with a recoverable resource estimate of 18 million to 1.4 billion oil-equivalent barrels. The test also confirmed high-quality oil from the same high-porosity sandstone reservoirs we saw in the Liza-1 discovery well.

Exxon Mobil, along with its partners, is progressing development plenty activities on an early production concept involving a floating production, storage and offloading facility, along with a related subsidy production systems. A final investment decision will be based on a variety of factors, including further Liza appraisal drilling, regulatory approvals and market conditions. On July 17 we began drilling the Skipjack prospect, which is located approximately 25 miles northwest of the Liza-1 discovery well. This is the third well on the Stabroek block.

In addition to these activities, Exxon Mobil recently entered into an agreement with the ratio companies to acquire a 50% interest in the Kaieteur block offshore Guyana, and will become the operator. Kaieteur is approximately 250 kilometers offshore Guyana in ultra deep water north and adjacent to the Stabroek and Canje blocks. Pending government approval, this deal will bring our total acreage position in Guyana to 11.4 million acres over the three blocks.

Chart 19 showcases improvements in our US unconventional operator portfolio. Exxon Mobil is a leading operator in the US unconventional production. Since 2013 we have more than tripled our gross operating production from the liquids-rich Permian and Bakken plays. Approximately 85% of this is liquids. We have maintained a relentless focus on reducing costs and improving efficiency while maintaining high operational integrity. We have continued to reduce drilling costs per foot, implement efficiencies and capture market savings to achieve substantial cost reductions.

With longer lateral lengths and improved completion designs, per well hydrocarbon recovery has dramatically improved. Coupled with lower drilling and completion costs, this higher recovery has resulted in a nearly 70% reduction in Permian unit development costs over the past two years. Our development costs per barrel is now $8 in the Permian and less than $10 in the Bakken. Additionally, we have successfully reduced cash operating costs to approximately $8 per barrel. As a result of these cost improvements, a large part of the premium drill -- Permian drill well inventory is economic at prices around $40 per barrel.

Over 2,000 drill wells locations in the Permian and Bakken yield a 10% rate of return at $40 per barrel. This drill well inventory equates to nine years of continuous drilling at 2015 rig levels, providing Exxon Mobil the flexibility to progress profitable, short-cycle opportunities and adjust activity in response to market conditions. And as you can see on the chart, our economic drill well inventory increases significantly as energy demand and prices improve.

Turning to slide 20 and an update on our Downstream and Chemical businesses, where we are selectively investing to grow higher-value product sales. First, we recently completed the expansion of our Taicang lubricants plant. This facility employs innovative blending technologies that increase operating efficiency and enables us to support growing demand for premium lubricants in China. In the Chemical business we launched Exceed XP performance polymars, which expands our comprehensive slate of polyethylene products. This new product provides leading performance in a variety of film applications including consumer, construction and agricultural use. Exceed XP was developed using advanced metallocene catalyst technology, process resert and applications expertise.

Exxon Mobil recently announced a facility expansion of our Santoprene plant in the United Kingdom to meet growing demand for specialty elastomers for the automotive, consumer and industrial segments. Additionally, we announced a project at the Beaumont refinery to expand ultra-low sulfur diesel and gas production by more than 40,000 barrels per day. The upgraded facilities will employ proprietary scan-fining technology to remove sulfur and maximize octane.

Corporation also continues to advance new opportunities to meet growing demand for ethylene and related products. We are evaluating a new project with SABIC to build a world-scale ethane cracker and derivative units along the US Gulf Coast. SABIC and Exxon Mobil enjoy a long history of successful partnership. Most recently we completed a joint specialty elastomers project at our KEMYA facility in Saudi Arabia. The facility builds on existing world-scale commodity assets to help meet growing demand for premium synthetic rubbers.

Chart 21 illustrates the Corporation's year-to-date sources and uses of cash, and highlights our ability to meet our financial objectives. As showed, cash from operations asset sales of $10.5 billion funded shareholder distributions. And together with a moderate increase in debt financing, supported net investments in the business. The scale and integrated nature of our cash flow provide competitive advantage and the flexibility to selectively invest through the cycle.

And we remain resolute in our commitment to pay a reliable and growing dividend. Quarterly dividends per share of $0.75 were up 2.7% versus the second quarter of 2015. Finally, Exxon Mobil generated $1.8 billion of free cash flow during the first half of 2016, reflecting capital discipline and the strength of our business.

Moving to slide 22. So in conclusion Exxon Mobil is delivering on its commitments and continues to create long-term shareholder value through the cycle. At midyear the Corporation has earned $3.5 billion and generated $10.5 billion of cash flow from operations and asset sales amid volatile industry conditions, underscoring the resilience of our integrated business. Upstream volumes were 4.1 million oil-equivalent barrels per day. And capital spending has been reduced 36% to $10.3 billion.

As you just heard, we continue to advance our investment plans to extend competitive advantage and unlock value across the Upstream, Downstream and Chemical businesses. And we remain committed to sharing the Corporation's success directly with shareholders through the dividend. Year-to-date shareholder distributions totaled $6.2 billion. That concludes my prepared remarks. Now I'd be happy to take your questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: Thank you, Mr. Woodbury.

(Operator Instructions)

And we'll take our first question from Doug Terreson with Evercore ISI.

DOUG TERRESON, ANALYST, EVERCORE ISI: Good morning, Jeff.

JEFF WOODBURY: Good morning, Doug.

DOUG TERRESON: A few of your competitors have publicly committed to do capital management plans and performance metrics, about which they plan to be held accountable in the future. And on this point, Exxon Mobil is typically focused on industry-leading returns across the business mix, I think is the way that Rex phrases it. And the Company has clearly been successful in that area. But my question is whether that objective may require revision when you consider that none of your peers were able to earn their cost of capital, even with Brent near $100 in 2014. So ran a little bit of a different scenario these days. And I wanted to see if there was an update on how the Company may be thinking about capital management plans, performance metrics, et cetera, in light of these circumstances?

JEFF WOODBURY: Yes. I think nothing has changed in our strategy, Doug. I mean, we fundamentally keep focused on maximizing shareholder value. And have always been and will continue to be measuring that based on a return on capital employed. As we have talked previously, Doug, I mean, the focus is on value. Our decisions are based on the value choices that we make. Now, if we get additional volumes growth or we get additional market share in those choices, well, that makes it even better. But there's no change. We continue to lead on return on capital employed. And we maintain focus on the business fundamentals.

DOUG TERRESON: Okay. And also -- I also wanted to ask a question about refined products demand, and specifically your refinery throughput and your sales declined about 6% year over year, but there were changes to the portfolio along the way. So my question is whether or not there was anything unusual about that data point, just because it is minus 6%, besides the portfolio factors? And also what you guys are seeing in refined products demand around the world?

JEFF WOODBURY: Well, let me start with the second part of the question.

DOUG TERRESON: Okay.

JEFF WOODBURY: As you know, demand has been generally strong from gasoline products and distillate demand is growing. But the issue that we're all faced with right now are very large inventories of products at this point. And the way we'll manage that is like we always manage it. We've got to be the most competitive refiner and Chemical business out there. And we'll continue to focus on the key elements to achieve that objective. In terms of the quarter-on-quarter performance in terms of volumes, it's primarily due to planned maintenance activity.

DOUG TERRESON: Okay. Well Jeff, I wanted the year over year, like first half versus first half. Is it the same answer that it was really related to changes in the portfolio and turnarounds? Is that the way to think about it?

JEFF WOODBURY: Exactly.

DOUG TERRESON: Okay. Well, thanks a lot.

JEFF WOODBURY: Thank you, Doug

DOUG TERRESON: you're welcome.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Evan Calio with Morgan Stanley.

EVAN CALIO, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Good morning, Jeff.

JEFF WOODBURY: Good morning, Evan.

EVAN CALIO: My first question is on Guyana. It's clearly a large discovery. Can you share any preliminary thinking on development concepts? When volumes might be realized? Whether there'll be an earlier full-production system? Is [Kazama C] a good template here? And thoughts on adding a second rig.

JEFF WOODBURY: Well, I mean, I certainly appreciate and understand all of the interest in Guyana. We're very excited about it, as we've talk in the past. We're integrating the data that we're picking up from the drill wells and the seismic analysis real-time. You can appreciate there's a good effort around development planning. And as I said in the prepared comments, the current plan right now is a early production concept as an initial start.

It's probably too early to discuss too much of those details. Clearly there's been some initial work that we've done due to -- for regulatory purposes. But as I said, we have a lot of work to do, and we'll continue to manage it. When you think about things like bringing in a second rig, that will be a function of a lot of issues. And when you do something like that, Evan, you make sure that you've got a really good understanding of what your prospects look like and you understand the dependencies on them. You don't want to outrun your headlights on it. So, I mean, good success so far. We're encouraged about the growth in Guyana and the development capability. But, we're -- we want to manage this in the most effective way to make sure we maximize the value.

EVAN CALIO: Okay. That's fair. My second question, and another tier 1 asset here. The InterOil transaction really has unique value to Exxon due to the PG L&G brownfield expansion and economics. But maybe more on the macro, what is your outlook on the L&G markets? And does the for multi-train expansions in P&G reduce your appetite for L&G development elsewhere over the next several years? Thank you.

JEFF WOODBURY: Yes. Evan, I'd say that -- let's start with our energy outlook. And it starts with our forecast that gas is going to grow about 1.6% per year from 2014 to 2040. And L&G will triple from over that time period from today's capacity. So that really sets up the business case for us. Now, like any type of commodity, there will be periods of oversupply and periods of shortness. And we do expect that through -- into the early part of the next decade that there will be some oversupply. But we keep focused on the long-term value proposition. And I've always said the energy outlook is one of providing us the insights and informing us for our investment choices.

The Papua, New Guinea, as I said in my prepared remarks, has just been a remarkable outcome. The organization is really proud of the results. And we think we've got a really strong business there. And frankly, I think brownfield expansion of the existing facility is going to compete very strongly for additional L&G demand in the future. I think we're very well positioned with the experience that we've got in country, the relationship that we have with the communities and with the government, our marketing capability. So I think the organization sees that as a very significant opportunity moving forward. Broadly speaking, as you've heard, we got a number of L&G projects that are in our development planning stages that we think are going to compete for that long-term L&G demand growth.

EVAN CALIO: Great. Thank you.

JEFF WOODBURY: Thanks, Evan.

OPERATOR: We'll take our next question from Doug Leggate with Bank of America.

DOUG LEGGATE, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Thanks. Good morning, Jeff. How are you today?

JEFF WOODBURY: Good morning, Doug, how are you?

DOUG LEGGATE: Good, thanks. I guess, could I start with a follow-up, please, on Evan's question? I guess I'd like to switch to the additional exploration activity. I'm just wondering, I realize exploration is what it is. But to the extent you can share any thoughts on the risk profile, how you've chosen the (inaudible) exploration (inaudible)? Because I previously I think (inaudible) and that seems to have been pushed back in favor of Skipjack. So what is the read-through, what is your go-forward plan? And is there any kind of risk profile you can share from the read-through from the success (inaudible)?

JEFF WOODBURY: Yes. Doug, you have to clarify. I mean, you are talking about just Guyana right now, right?

DOUG LEGGATE: Yes, sir. Yes.

JEFF WOODBURY: So as I said in my prepared comments, we're drilling the Skipjack prospect. It is testing a similar play to Liza with comparable resource potential. Clearly Liza helped to derisk a new play in a new basin. But as you know, all exploration wells do carry inherent risk. We do have a lineup of other prospects in the block. As I said, we've added two additional blocks, one that's got a seismic survey in progress and the next one in which, we anticipate, once the deal is concluded, that we will do the same there. And that will continue to be fed into our list of options. And we'll decide on what the next best opportunity is to pursue after Skipjack. But right now the plan is that the rig will move from Skipjack back to Liza for another appraisal well.

DOUG LEGGATE: That's terrific. Jeff, if I may, just (inaudible). I think Mark had suggested that you did tell (inaudible) indicators across the whole block. Would Skipjack qualify under that category?

JEFF WOODBURY: Well, I'd tell you that the seismic images are similar to Liza. And probably that's where I'll end.

DOUG LEGGATE: Okay. Thanks. A follow-up, fairly quick one, is M&A, last down cycle you guys obviously were very active. This down cycle it's more asset focused with InterOil, it would seem. What are your thoughts on where the other bolt-on things that you could -- where you see opportunities? And, of course, on top of (inaudible) Rex' recent visits (inaudible) in Mozambique?

JEFF WOODBURY: Really, nothing. I would say that from an acquisition standpoint that it's business as normal. We continue to stay very alert to the value propositions across our portfolio. We're not really focusing on a specific geography or resource type. But it's got to meet the fundamental quality expectations that we've shared previously, and that is it's got to compete with the resources we've got in our existing inventory. And we've got to have confidence that we can bring value to it and it's got long-term strategic value that's going to be accretive to our returns. As you know, we've got the financial flexibility to do a number of things. And acquisitions is one of those things.

DOUG LEGGATE: Would you care to address the press speculation in Mozambique?

JEFF WOODBURY: Now, Doug, I really can't comment on any market speculation.

DOUG LEGGATE: I'll leave it there, Jeff. I'll look forward to seeing you in a few weeks. Thanks.

JEFF WOODBURY: Thank you, Doug.

OPERATOR: And our next question will come from Sam Margolin with Cowen and Company.

SAM MARGOLIN, ANALYST, COWEN AND COMPANY: Morning, Jeff. How are you?

JEFF WOODBURY: Good morning, Sam. How are you?

SAM MARGOLIN: Good, thanks. I just actually wanted to follow up on the L&G outlook question. Not to ask you to front run your 2017 long-term market outlook, but, one of the things that other operators are saying is that one of the big challenges in sanctioning L&G projects is that it's difficult to find buyers right now. But it seems like if L&G prices are sort of structurally lower into the long term, maybe demand could accelerate perhaps faster than what the view was 1 or 2 years ago? And I was just wondering if you're seeing anything sort of, if you have spot market exposure, if there seems to be increased, I guess, penetration of L&G into some markets that you hadn't seen before, and if it was a function of price?

JEFF WOODBURY: Yes. I'd say that certainly there's a lot of players in the L&G market now. But I'd also say that we have built a very credible reputation with the buyers. We've delivered our projects on time, on schedule. We have an exceptional operations center that has been very effective in managing the contracts that are in place. So we've got a really good relationship out there with the buyers. We've got a good feeling on where there are market developments. And you understand that kind of the approach that we take, these are multi-billion dollar developments, and we, by and large, are going to fund those based on long-term firm commitments. And that's how we manage these investments to ensure that we get an attractive return on such a large commitment.

SAM MARGOLIN: Okay. Thanks for the color. And then just a quick bookkeeping question, if I can. As you know, there's a lot of focus from investors on sort of quarter-to-quarter sources and uses of cash. I was just looking at this working capital draw. And if we could get a little color on that, if it's going to reverse or maybe what was behind that?

JEFF WOODBURY: Yes. So the working capital had a $2 billion impact. And it really is a function of many different variables in it. But I'll pull out that one is a pension contribution that we had detailed in our 10-K this year. And then the second being just normal account -- changes in account balances between receivables and payables.

SAM MARGOLIN: Okay. Thanks so much.

JEFF WOODBURY: Okay. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Our next question will come from Paul Sankey with Wolfe Research.

PAUL SANKEY, ANALYST, WOLFE RESEARCH: Hi, Jeff.

JEFF WOODBURY: Good morning, Paul.

PAUL SANKEY: Quick one on Guyana. You were very successful in Guyana with the early production. Could you be producing within a couple of years, do you think, as soon as 2018?

JEFF WOODBURY: Well, what we are laying out in our permitting activity is probably early into the next decade at this point. I mean, there's a lot to consider to make sure that we are maximizing the value for the resource owner and for the co-ventures.

PAUL SANKEY: Understood, Jeff. Thank you. Secondly, the P&G, would that be for your own -- would the undeveloped field be for your own facility, or are you intending to continue with the second development?

JEFF WOODBURY: That's a good question, Paul. Clearly that's a topic for discussion amongst the co-ventures when we bring it together. You remember, as I said in my prepared comments, that we've got our already establish discovered undeveloped resources that we've been working on in order to underpin an expansion to the existing P&G facility. The Elk-Antelope assets obviously are an attractive add. When the deal is closed, it's a matter of discussion amongst the co-ventures and the government parties to agree what the best value proposition is for how we develop that. And I think there's a strong case to say that it's going to go through our existing facilities.

PAUL SANKEY: Thank you. That's very helpful. Jeff finally, the cash flows of the quarter, was there any major distortions in terms of the operating cash flows that we should think about? And can you remind me, do you have a sensitivity of cash flow to a dollar change in the oil price? Obviously the concern here is that for the quarter, cash flows are falling short of your combined CapEx and dividend.

I know your guidance is for flat volumes. I assume you're spending at a level to achieve flat volumes. My worry is that maybe we need to see a much higher oil price, I'm thinking more like $60 a barrel, to balance this cash flow versus CapEx versus dividend. Can you give us a sense to how the cash flows would move, and if there was any particular distortion in the quarter? Thank you.

JEFF WOODBURY: Yes. Sure, Paul. There was no specific distortion in the quarter. I will say that, if you recall in the analyst presentation, we did provide you a perspective of cash flow neutrality. And in there, if you recall, we used a range of $40 to $80 per barrel. And felt like we were very well positioned to achieve cash flow neutrality by next year. I think the organization is making some really good progress in reducing our costs and making sure that they are all focused on creating incremental margin. Your comment about price impacts on cash flow, we do provide in the 10-K some pricing sensitivities on earnings that you may want to go ahead and look at.

PAUL SANKEY: I will indeed. And, Jeff, sorry, I've a follow-up request from a client to ask you why CapEx trending well below the full-year guidance?

JEFF WOODBURY: Yes. So CapEx -- our CapEx guidance, as you'll note, just over $23 billion. Year to date we are trending below. And it's driving by a number of factors. One is the organization remains focused on capital efficiency. We're still capturing market savings. Importantly, we continue to execute our projects very well. We're not seeing major budget overruns or extension to the schedules, and that's an important deliverable. And then there's still opportunities to go ahead and delay some of our resource investments that in this down market we can restructure them to capture additional value. So those factors are what I would summarize as the shortfall year to date.

PAUL SANKEY: Thank you, Jeff. Have a good weekend.

JEFF WOODBURY: You too, Paul.

OPERATOR: And our next question will come from Brad Heffern with RBC Capital Markets.

BRAD HEFFERN, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Good morning, Jeff.

JEFF WOODBURY: Good morning, Brad.

BRAD HEFFERN: I was curious if you could go into the impact from the Canadian wildfires and also the impacts in Nigeria? What kind of volume loss you had during the quarter? And also I would assume the Canadian wildfires are no longer having a substantial impact. But maybe the outlook in Nigeria?

JEFF WOODBURY: Yes. Sure, Brad. Well, I mean, for the quarter, it was about 100,000 barrel a day impact combined. The Canadian wildfires, I mean, as you know, they're not impacting our assets directly. But we went and shut down out of safety for our organization. We watched -- this time of year we watch it very closely. But for the most part we think it is behind us.

Nigeria, you may recall that we did declare a force majeure in May for a period of time. And that resulted from a third-party operator that had a operational instance while they were towing a drill rig that unfortunately sat down on one of our pipelines. So we had to shut in the facility to help them remove that rig and then investigate the impact.

More recently here in July we had another force majeure. We picked up a system anomaly on the offshore export pipeline. And was -- have had some initial investigation. And we believe that it was damaged due a third-party impact. And we're working with the joint venture partner and our government authorities to investigate the -- how to rectify that at this point.

BRAD HEFFERN: Okay. Thanks for that. And then I was curious if you could also talk a little bit about the new petrochemicals plant that you're investigating on the Gulf Coast? Just thinking about -- there are a lot of plants in queue ahead of you, presumably, before that would come online. So how do you think about the supply and demand dynamics of that?

JEFF WOODBURY: Yes. Really good question, Brad. Let me start again with our energy outlook. We see chemicals demand growing about 1% above GDP between now and 2040. Over the next decade we see that ethylene demand will grow about 4% per year, and that translates into capacity additions about 6 million to 7 million tons per annum per year of additional capacity. So you can think of that as maybe 4 to 5 world-scale crackers per year.

So once again, our outlook will inform our business strategy and our investment choices. And we see this as a really good opportunity. Remember that we've currently got a project underway in Baytown to add another 1.5 million tons per annum of ethylene capacity and a corresponding project at Mont Belvieu to add derivative units, take it to polyethylene. In fact, metallocene polyethylene. This project would look at another world-scale cracker of about 1.8 million tons per year of ethylene. And then would feed, at this stage still early, would feed monoethylene glycol plant and two polyethylene plants.

BRAD HEFFERN: Okay. Thanks for that color.

OPERATOR: Our next question will come from Ed Westlake with Credit Suisse.

ED WESTLAKE, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Hi there. Coming back to the gas theme. Obviously, you had Paris on the CO2 side. You've got a very political cost and energy demand. I mean, is this a general shift towards gas? I noticed you had 60% oil, and would have been even higher in the quarter with Nigeria and Canada. Or was this just knowing the assets, just an opportunity to just get hydrocarbon at the lower of the gas cost chain?

JEFF WOODBURY: No, ed. It's not a shift in our strategy in any way. We've been very consistent in it. It's a recognition of opportunities that we see across the globe in both crude as well as gas. And again, I'll go back to my value theme. It's where we think we can maximize shareholder value

ED WESTLAKE: Okay. And then on the non-US gas price. I mean, obviously there's a lot of noise about spot L&G prices and contract renegotiation. But obviously there are time lags in the contracts as well. So you would have expected the gas price to probably go down a little bit. But anything funny that you're seeing in terms of the gas prices across your non-US portfolio?

JEFF WOODBURY: No, not really. As you recall, crude prices got to a low level in the first quarter of this year. There is a lag effect on the contracts. We've got many different contracts. It's hard to imply that there's a standard that you can use to calculate the impact. But generally you can see a crude lag impact of anywhere from 3 to 6 months.

ED WESTLAKE: Okay. Cool. Thanks so much.

JEFF WOODBURY: Thank you, Ed.

OPERATOR: And our next question will come from Neil Mehta with Goldman Sachs.

NEIL MEHTA, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Hey, good morning guys.

JEFF WOODBURY: Good morning, Neil.

NEIL MEHTA: So Jeff, just wanted to follow up on the first question in terms of refining margins. And you guys have a unique perspective on this, given the amount of capacity that you touch. Do you think the weakness that we've seen year over year in the refining margins versus the five-year average is a function of global demand or of refining capacity and utilization? And then how do you see it playing out over the longer term?

JEFF WOODBURY: I think it's probably the latter. It's probably refining capacity and then, as you know, inventory builds. I mean, very strong demand in 2015, good demand in 2016. I think the sector was ready for the demand moving in in 2016, and you've seen that in the inventory builds. And going forward, just like any supply/demand fundamental, either the demand's got to grow or the supply's got to shrink. And you'll see the same type of fundamentals going forward. Our focus will be one of, again as I said earlier, we'll be making sure that we're the most competitive refinery out there.

NEIL MEHTA: As you think about it geographically, which regions do you think will have to rationalize runs, as you think about your competitor portfolios, to the extent margins do continue to weaken?

JEFF WOODBURY: Yes. I'm not going to speculate on capacity utilization. I mean, rationalization, we've said for some time we expect to see across the globe, particularly in places like Europe and Asia.

NEIL MEHTA: Okay. Great. Jeff, and the followup question. On M&A here is, I think in Rex' remarks at the Analyst Day, he had pointed that the valuations from Exxon's perspective of USC&Ps were challenging and the bid/ask spreads aren't there. If you could talk about the opportunities that, as you think about M&A in the lower 48, that would be helpful.

JEFF WOODBURY: Well, as you can appreciate Neil, the bid/ask is really a function of many factors including the business climate and, for us, the unique ability for us to add value to it. There's been a pickup, a slight pickup. The longer that prices stay in this area code, probably the more ability to come to a win/win agreement. As I said earlier, Neil, really, it's keeping focused on the full breadth of opportunities and trying to identify where we can come to a win/win solution that adds value for the long term.

NEIL MEHTA: Appreciate the comments. Thank you.

JEFF WOODBURY: Thank you, Neil.

OPERATOR: Our next question will come from Ryan Todd with Deutsche Bank.

RYAN TODD, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Great. Thanks. Good morning. Maybe if I could just ask one on -- the first one on capital priority. Do you have any rough priorities in terms of the use of cash as the commodity recovers in terms of kind of balance sheet versus capital acceleration versus shareholder return? is there a point that you look to get back to before thinking about restarting the share buyback program?

JEFF WOODBURY: No. I mean, go back to our cap allocation approach. It's all about making sure that we provide a reliable and growing dividend to our shareholders, and at the same time continue to divest in accretive assets. The buyback program has been kind of a flexible part of the program. As we've talked previously, the buyback program is considered on a quarterly basis. And it also considers things like the Company's current financial position, our investment requirements, and as well as the near-term business outlook. We'll make those determinations on buyback on a quarterly basis.

RYAN TODD: And in terms of that reduction on that as well, are you at a place where you'd like to reduce absolute levels of that, or are you fairly comfortable with where you at right now for this point in the cycle?

JEFF WOODBURY: Well, I think given where we are in the cycle, I mean, we've got significant debt capacity that we can leverage. Paying down debt, well, obviously one of those things that we'll consider as we move forward. But we've got a very strong balance sheet. We're going to maintain our prudent cash management. And we're going to invest wisely. But at the same time we're not going to forego attractive opportunities. And I think you've seen that here as we talked this morning in the prepared comments.

RYAN TODD: Great. And maybe if I could shift one to the US onshore. Could you -- we appreciated the slide that you had in there with some details of the Permian and the Bakken. Could you say how many rigs you're running right now in the US onshore currently? And how should we expect to see you manage that heading into 2017? Are you at the point where you are thinking about moderately accelerating?

JEFF WOODBURY: So right now we're running -- for the second quarter we're running 11 rigs in total. Now we're down to about 10. In terms of going forward, we want to be mindful of a number of factors. We've generally managed this with a very measured pace considering a number of factors that would drive how aggressive we want to be in the near term. You heard me say in the prepared comments that one of those things are the market conditions.

But also resource maturity, learning curve benefits. You saw on the prepared comments the significant benefits we continue to realize in our Permian and Bakken drilling activities. We don't want to outrun the headlights and we don't want to miss some value opportunities. You need to have the right infrastructures in place. And then there's obviously considering the current supply/demand balance. So we'll manage it as we go forward depending on those factors.

RYAN TODD: Great. Thanks, Jeff.

JEFF WOODBURY: Okay.

OPERATOR: Our next question will come from Asit Sen from CLSA Investments.

ASIT SEN, ANALYST, CLSA: Good morning, Jeff.

JEFF WOODBURY: Good morning, Asit.

ASIT SEN: So thanks for the color on P&G L&G. I just want to get a little deeper, please. If you were to add a train, a new train to the existing facility, how much resource gas do you really need to underpin a train? Is it still sort of a 5 PCF number? And remind us of your resource footprint there. I think in your opening remark you said 4.1 million net acres. What is Exxon's resource footprint in the region?

JEFF WOODBURY: I guess on the first one is the resource required for a train is really a function of how big we build that train. And that's part of the development planning that we're going through at this stage. As you heard me say earlier, the two existing trains have a combined capacity of 6.9 million tons per annum. In terms of our total acreage, I don't have a number to share with you at this point. I mean, the IOC deal, as I said in my prepared comments, adds 4 million acres.

ASIT SEN: And then shifting gears to international downstream, Jeff. Wondering if you have any thoughts on the current trends in Asia, given emergence of Chinese teapot refineries? Did you see anything incrementally new in the first half of 2016? Are you seeing anything different, or is it business as usual?

JEFF WOODBURY: I would say the latter, business as usual.

ASIT SEN: Okay. Thanks.

JEFF WOODBURY: Thanks, Asit.

OPERATOR: And our next question will come from Phil Gresh with JPMorgan.

PHIL GRESH, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Hey, Jeff. Good morning.

JEFF WOODBURY: Good morning.

PHIL GRESH: I just want to ask a clarification on Paul's CapEx question. You were talking about costs trending well. Is there any specific reason that you wouldn't have lowered the full-year guidance for CapEx? Are there specific projects or things you're thinking about for the back half that would have it trending upward from a pretty consistent rate in the first half?

JEFF WOODBURY: well, I mean, Paul -- I mean, Phil, we really provide guidance at the beginning of the year. Unless there's something materially different in our plans, we really don't change that guidance. Now, the organization will obviously continue to manage it in the most effective way. If there are opportunities that come up on the horizon, we'll judge it against the value proposition and not be constrained if we think it's the right decision for the Company. As I said, having said that, we do expect a downward vector.

PHIL GRESH: Yes, okay. Fair enough. You did lower it last year, I think mid-year. So that's why I was asking. And I guess I'll ask one final question on the second quarter. Just given the magnitude of the miss, you usually don't miss by this much, looking back over the past 5 or 10 years. So if I take maybe the L&G lag effects or gas pricing, the effect of the production, the 1,000 barrels a day. Do you have any rough sense of maybe what one-time factors from an earnings standpoint hit you in the quarter?

JEFF WOODBURY: Yes. Well, I mean, I would summarize on the Upstream side it's primarily driven by three components. One were gas realizations. Two were the two nonrecurring events. And then three would be the downtime that we talked about previously, particularly in Nigeria and Canada.

PHIL GRESH: And any way to quantify it?

JEFF WOODBURY: Nothing more than what we've shared in the prepared information.

PHIL GRESH: Okay. Thanks.

JEFF WOODBURY: Thanks, Phil.

OPERATOR: Our next question will come from Roger Read with Wells Fargo.

ROGER READ, ANALYST, WELLS FARGO SECURITIES, LLC: Good morning.

JEFF WOODBURY: Good morning, Roger.

ROGER READ: Getting kind of late in the call. But I guess the question I'd have, kind of getting to the, call it M&A or investment options as you look internationally. So you've announced the InterOil transaction. There's been, and I know you won't comment on rumors, but there have been rumors out there about moving more aggressively into Iraq, potentially Mozambique. Does any of this reflect an improvement in sort of, I don't know if you'd call it a bid/ask spread on some of these big global projects, but maybe a view internally that things are at least looking a little more stable or that sellers are starting to be more reasonable about their -- what they're requesting?

JEFF WOODBURY: I mean, I guess nothing has really changed in how we consider acquisitions. As I said earlier, we'll continue to scan opportunities and we'll -- some of these things come and go, and they come back again. So, they take a while to transact. And if it competes with our existing inventory of investments, it's something that we're interested in, it's something that we want to try to progress and make a deal on. I think by and large, I do think, Roger, that resource owners do recognize Exxon Mobil's capabilities. And I think that, particularly in a down cycle, where the resource owner is trying to attract investors, I think that plays well for us.

ROGER READ: Yes. Yes, I can certainly is understand that. And then just a last question. Hasn't come up in a while, but Argentina and the shale opportunity down there. Any updates worth mentioning?

JEFF WOODBURY: Yes. So you may have seen that we had announced a pilot for the Vaca Meurta in the Bajo del Choique and Long [Vernado] block. It's a five-well pilot that we're progressing. It's underpinned by the December approval of a 35-year unconventional exploitation commission that we were -- or a concession that we were able to secure. And the pilot will then allow us to better assess the full acreage potential. So good progress. Looks very promising. And you may have also picked up that we've got our XTO organization starting that asset as well to bring the US knowledge and expertise into Argentina.

ROGER READ: Thank you.

JEFF WOODBURY: Thank you, Roger.

OPERATOR: Our next question will come from Anish Kapadia with TPH.

ANISH KAPADIA, ANALYST, TUDOR, PICKERING, HOLT & CO. SECURITIES: Hi, good afternoon.

JEFF WOODBURY: Good morning.

ANISH KAPADIA: Good morning to you. I have a question going back to the InterOil deal again. And just wanted to understand why you chose to use equity, use your shares rather than cash for the deal? Just wondering if it's to do with a balance sheet constraints? And especially as I think you're likely to get significant amount of cash in from Total from milestone payments?

JEFF WOODBURY: Yes. And you're still read too much into it. We have flexibility to do either, stock or cash, as you would expect. The final structure of a transaction is really a function of the dialogue between the seller an the buyer. And obviously we keep focused on what the seller's needs are. But, again, I wouldn't read too much into it. There are no balance sheet constraints with Exxon Mobil.

ANISH KAPADIA: And my follow-up question is on your US gas production. We've seen some steep declines in US gas production in previous years. It seems to have moderated somewhat more recently. Just wondering if you could give some idea of how you see that trending over the next few years, and in the current gas price environment?

JEFF WOODBURY: well, we -- if you recall, we are the largest gas producer in the US. We've got a substantial resource base that underpins that. And a significant amount of development opportunities. If you think about the recent period, there's been a -- to be very transparent, we've had a much stronger focus on development of liquids opportunities, less so on gas. Longer term we think about that gas resource base in a number of ways.

One, as I said earlier, we expect gas to grow globally at 1.6% per year. So we expect in the US that gas will underpin increases in domestic use. And you've seen how gas has continued to grow in power generation, as an example. Two, we see that gas helping to underpin some of these petrochemical investments that we've been talking about, like the investment we've got in Baytown, and even the one we're considering with SABIC. And then, three, that gas also underpins our ability to compete in the global L&G market and our anticipated increases in demand.

ANISH KAPADIA: Thanks so much.

JEFF WOODBURY: all right, Anish.

OPERATOR: And our next question will come from John Herrlin with Societe Generale.

JOHN HERRLIN, ANALYST, SOCIETE GENERALE: Yes, hi. Most things have been asked. But quickly, with Skipjack, Jeff, do you have the same kind of seismic signature? Not just the aerial extent of the image for Skipjack versus Liza. Do you have the same seismic signatures (multiple speakers)

JEFF WOODBURY: Yes, we do, John.

JOHN HERRLIN: Okay. Great. Next one, you said China stabilization. Can you be a little bit more specific? And that's it for me. Thanks.

JEFF WOODBURY: You talking about in GDP?

JOHN HERRLIN: Yes.

JEFF WOODBURY: Yes, we're just looking at the quarter-on-quarter change in GDP, and by and large it's been fairly stable. Last -- I mean, fourth quarter was -- fourth quarter 2015 was about 6.8%. It's been on a gradually decline. First quarter 2016 is 6.7% and then it's estimated to be about the same level in the second quarter.

JOHN HERRLIN: Okay. Thanks.

JEFF WOODBURY: I'll just add on China, John. Remember, overall demand products have been pretty strong in China. You look at crude demand and products.

JOHN HERRLIN: Thanks, Jeff.

JEFF WOODBURY: All righty. Thank you, John.

OPERATOR: And our next question will come from Paul Cheng with Barclays.

PAUL CHENG, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Hey, Jeff. Good morning.

JEFF WOODBURY: Good morning, Paul.

PAUL CHENG: Three quick questions. You mentioned that now you have 10 rigs in the US. Can you tell us that, what is the number of rig you need to maintain frac production in Permian and Bakken?

JEFF WOODBURY: yes, Paul. We really don't think about it as how many rigs we need to keep production flat. We really think about it from a full global portfolio perspective. And as I said earlier a couple times that we've been very focused on maximizing value. And on the short circle -- short cycle investments, one of the things we got to think about is the supply/demand mechanics. So really don't think about it from how do I keep volumes flat. I think about it, how do we maximize value.

PAUL CHENG: Fully understand. I'm not saying Exxon think about it that way. But it's for our own benefit that in terms from an industry standpoint. So wondering, is there a number that you can share?

JEFF WOODBURY: No there isn't because we don't work it that way.

PAUL CHENG: Okay. Secondly, in page 11 of your presentation, when you go for your talk about asset sales gain and tax benefit different between first and second quarter, we saw the different in earning. Can you tell us there what is the actual sales gain and actual tax benefit in the Upstream in first quarter and also in the second quarter?

JEFF WOODBURY: Yes. So you're asking for the quarter-on-quarter earnings?

PAUL CHENG: No. I'm talking about the actual asset sales gain you report in the first quarter and in the second quarter for Upstream. And also what is the tax benefit you report in the first quarter and also the second quarter in Upstream.

JEFF WOODBURY: From an asset -- earnings asset perspective in the first quarter it was about $80 million total positive. And in the second quarter it was immaterial. It was a negative $20 million in the second quarter.

PAUL CHENG: Okay. Tax benefit?

JEFF WOODBURY: Yes. Paul, we just don't share specific tax information in our business segments.

PAUL CHENG: Okay. And final one. In M&A you mentioned that in order for you to go into a major [session] you need to ask the question what you bring to the table. Should we interpret that means that if either ones you acquired, whatever is the asset or what ownership, you will be the operator, or that you would be able to convenes the consortium, that you move those asset into your own develop (inaudible) like what look like and may be able to do in Papua, New Guinea? So should those be a important principle when you consider?

JEFF WOODBURY: Those are certainly key considerations when we consider opportunities on acquisition front.

PAUL CHENG: Thank you.

JEFF WOODBURY: Thank you, Paul.

OPERATOR: And our final question will come from Pavel Molchanov.

PAVEL MOLCHANOV, ANALYST, RAYMOND JAMES & ASSOCIATES, INC.: Thanks, guys. Just one question form me. About a month ago Exxon was in the headlines stating its preference for carbon tax. And in this election season I wanted to ask, within Exxon's project economics planning, do you incorporate a future carbon price? And if not, what would you need to see before you would include that factor in your planning?

JEFF WOODBURY: Pavel, if you look in our energy outlook, which we've got posted on our Company website, you'll see that we've included for -- now for many years a, what we call a proxy cost of carbon. And over the outlook period out to 2040, that number grows to as high as $80 per ton. But you'll see it in our energy outlook, if you go ahead and take a look at it.

PAVEL MOLCHANOV: Appreciate it.

OPERATOR: There are no further questions at this time. I would like to turn the conference back over today's speakers for any closing or additional remarks.

JEFF WOODBURY: Well, to conclude, I want to thank you all once again for your time and questions, really good questions. I think you get the impression that we've got a lot going on. The organization is very focused on the value choices that we've got before us. We're not being driven by specific objectives and volumes or market share, but one of value. And I do appreciate the engagement this morning. And we certainly look forward to our discussions in the future. Thank you.

OPERATOR: That concludes today's call. Thank you for your participation. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
exxn : Exxon Mobil Corporation
   IN
i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas Upstream Operations | iioil : Integrated Oil/Gas
   NS
c151 : Earnings | nitv : Interviews | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Financial Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
indon : Indonesia | usa : United States | cana : Canada | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | namz : North America | seasiaz : Southeast Asia
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020160730ec7t006y4
  


 HD
 Q1  2016  Exxon  Mobil Corp Earnings Call - Final
   WC
11,259 words
   PD
29 April 2016
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©016 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved. 

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day, everyone, and welcome to the ExxonMobil corporation first quarter 2016 earnings conference call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time I would like to turn the call over to Vice President of Investor Relations and Secretary, Mr. Jeff Woodbury. Please go ahead, sir.

   TD
JEFF WOODBURY, VP OF IR & SECRETARY, EXXON MOBIL CORPORATION: Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning and welcome to ExxonMobil's first-quarter earnings call. My comments this morning will refer to the slides that are available through the investors section of our website.

Before we go further, I'd like to draw your attention to our cautionary statement shown on slide 2. Turning now to slide 3, let me begin by summarizing the key headlines for first-quarter performance. ExxonMobil earned $1.8 billion in a difficult business environment marked by low commodity prices. Cash flow from operations and asset sales totaled $5 billion in the quarter. These results demonstrate the durability of our integrated business enhanced by our relentless focus on managing those factors that we can control including effective cost management, reliable performance and operational integrity. A highlight this quarter is our strong chemical results, which underscore significant gas and liquids cracking advantages at our integrated sites and differentiated capabilities across the value chain.

The Corporation also continues to make steady progress on its investment plans. During the quarter we benefited from recent capacity additions while reducing CapEx 33% versus the prior year quarter. We continue to effectively manage our spending while selectively investing in the business to meet long-term energy demand and importantly grow shareholder value.

Moving now to slide 4, we'll provide an overview of some of the external factors affecting our results. Global economic growth remained weak during the first quarter. In the US estimates indicate growth has slowed further since late 2015. In China, growth continued to decelerate. However, economies in Japan and Europe seem -- showed some modest improvement compared to the fourth quarter. Crude oil prices were quite volatile and decreased relative to last quarter while natural gas prices continued to fall. Global refining margins weakened on lower distillate demand and continued surplus inventory. However, chemical commodity and specialty margins strengthened on lower feed and energy costs.

Turning now to the financial results as shown on slide 5. As indicated ExxonMobil's first-quarter earnings were $1.8 billion or $0.43 per share. The Corporation distributed $3.1 billion in dividends to our shareholders. CapEx was just over $5 billion, down $ 2.6 billion from the first quarter of 2015 reflecting continued steady progress on our investment plans. Cash flow from operations and asset sales was $5 billion, and at the end of the quarter, cash totaled $4.8 billion and debt was $43.1 billion.

Next slide provides additional detail on sources and uses of cash. Over the quarter, cash balances increased from $3.7 billion to $4.8 billion. Earnings adjusted for depreciation expense, changes in working capital and other items in our ongoing asset management program yielded $5 billion of cash flow from operations and asset sales. Uses of cash included shareholder distributions of $3.1 billion and net investments in the business of $4.5 billion.

Debt and other financing increased cash by $3.7 billion, which included an impact of anti-dilutive share purchases. ExxonMobil will continue to limit share purchases to amounts needed to offset dilution related to our benefits plan and programs but does not currently plan on making additional purchases to reduce shares outstanding. Earlier this week, the Board of Directors declared a second-quarter cash dividend of $0.75 per share, a 2.7% increase from last quarter marking our 34th consecutive year of per-share dividend growth.

Moving on to slide 7 for a review of our segmented results. ExxonMobil's first-quarter earnings decreased $3.1 billion from the year-ago quarter. Our upstream and downstream earnings were partially offset by stronger chemical results and lower corporate costs. The corporate effective tax rate was 19% during the quarter down from 33% a year ago reflecting changes in our segment earnings mix and one-time favorable tax effects reported in the corporate and financing segment. On average, corporate and financing expenses are anticipated to be $500 million to $700 million per quarter over the next few years.

In the sequential quarter comparison shown on slide 8, earnings decreased by $970 million as stronger chemical results partly offset lower upstream and downstream earnings.

Turning now to the upstream financial and operating results starting on slide 9. Upstream earnings decreased $2.9 billion from a year-ago quarter resulting in a segment loss of $76 million. Sharply lower realizations decreased earnings by $2.6 billion. Crude prices declined by almost $18 per barrel and gas realizations fell more than $2.25 per thousand cubic feet. Unfavorable sales mix effects reduced earnings $100 million. All other items decreased earnings another $250 million where lower gains on asset sales and less favorable tax effects were partly offset by reduced operating expenses.

Moving to slide 10, oil equivalent production increased 77,000 barrels per day or 1.8% to more than 4.3 million barrels per day compared to the first quarter of last year. Now liquids production was up 260,000 barrels per day or 11.5% driven by capacity additions from recent project startups and continued good facility reliability across the portfolio. However, natural gas production decreased 1.1 billion cubic feet per day or 9.3%. Growth from major projects was more than offset by regulatory restrictions in the Netherlands, field decline, divestment impacts, and lower entitlement volumes.

Turning now to the sequential comparison starting on slide 11. Upstream earnings were $933 million lower than the fourth quarter. Realizations decreased earnings by $1.2 billion where crude declined more than $8 per barrel and gas fell almost $0.75 per thousand cubic feet. Favorable volume and sales mix effects improved earnings by $170 million including contributions from new projects and higher natural gas demand. All other items added $140 million reflecting lower operating expenses partly offset by lower favorable tax effects.

Moving to slide 12. Sequentially volumes were also up 77,000 oil equivalent barrels per day or 1.8%. Liquids production increased almost 60,000 barrels per day up 2.3% from ramp-up of new project volumes. Natural gas production was up 120 million cubic feet per day reflecting stronger seasonal demand in Europe partly offset by regulatory restrictions in the Netherlands and lower entitlements.

Moving now to the downstream results starting on slide 13. Downstream earnings for the quarter were $906 million, a decrease of $760 million compared to the first quarter of 2015. Weaker refining margins reduced earnings by $860 million, partly offset by $100 million of all other items primarily favorable foreign exchange impacts.

Turning to slide 14, sequentially downstream earnings decreased $445 million as weaker margins reduced earnings by 470 million. Unfavorable volume and mix effects mainly from increased European maintenance activities decreased earnings by another $150 million. All other items provided a partial offset adding $170 million mostly from lower expenses.

Moving now to chemical results starting on slide 15. First-quarter earnings were $1.4 billion, up $370 million versus the prior year quarter. Stronger commodity margins from liquids cracking in Europe and Asia increased earnings by $250 million. Higher global sales volumes contributed $80 million while all other items added another $40 million, again, from lower expenses.

Moving to slide 16, sequentially chemical earnings increased $390 million due to stronger commodity and specialty margins. Unfavorable volume and mix effects were more than offset by lower expenses.

Turning now to slide 17, as you may be aware, Standard & Poor's reduced its credit rating on ExxonMobil by one notch to AA+ with a stable outlook. Earlier this month Moody's reaffirmed its AAA credit rating on the Corporation with a negative outlook. We want to be clear that nothing has changed with respect to the Corporation's conservative financial philosophy or prudent management of its balance sheet. Our ability to access financial markets on attractive terms remains strong. ExxonMobil's financial strength remains a significant competitive advantage and enables us to create long-term shareholder value despite near-term market volatility. ExxonMobil has a long history of prudently managing our capital structure and financial capacity through numerous commodity cycles, and we fully expect to manage through this one under those same prudent financial principles.

Moving now to slide 18 and an update on upstream projects and the exploration program. Four major project start-ups year-to-date added 170,000 oil equivalent barrels per day of working interest production capacity. In January the Heidelberg project in the Gulf of Mexico started up several months ahead of schedule and under budget. Heidelberg is a five well subsea development in 5300 feet of water tied-back to a central truss spar production facility with a peak capacity of 80,000 barrels of liquids and 80 million cubic feet of gas per day.

In Australia, train 1 of the Gorgon LNG project started up in March. As you know LNG production has been suspended due to mechanical issues which the operator is actively working to resolve. In April, ExxonMobil started up two more projects ahead of schedule and under budget. Julia in the Gulf of Mexico and the Point Thomson initial production system on Alaska's North Slope. Julia is a capital efficient subsidy tie back to an existing production facility, another example of ExxonMobil's capable to cost effectively develop new deepwater resources by leveraging existing infrastructure. Production will continue to ramp up in the coming months as two additional wells are completed.

At the Point Thomson project two injection wells will work in tandem with the production well cycling up to 250 million cubic feet of gas per day through an on site central processing facility to extract about 10,000 barrels per day of condensate. Notably, the project provides a foundation for future gas development on the North Slope and further demonstrates ExxonMobil's ability to safely and responsibly execute complex projects in challenging and remote environments. Two additional major projects are expected to come online later this year, namely Kashagan and Barzan, closing out the six major project start-ups planned for 2016.

Turning now to our exploration program where we continue to pursue and evaluate high-value resource opportunities. Offshore Guyana we completed the largest proprietary 3D seismic survey in our Company's history, and we are currently drilling the Liza-2 appraisal well. Data from the appraisal well and the 3D seismic will be used to evaluate the block's potential and development concepts. We do plan to drill additional exploration wells with the existing rig.

Offshore Uruguay we are participating in the Raya-1 exploration well in block 14 where we have a 35% interest. And in the Gulf of Mexico we were the apparent high bidder on five new exploration blocks in lease sale 241. Final award of these blocks is expected later this year, and we will further strengthen our 1.1 million net acre position offshore. We plan to utilize proprietary seismic imaging technology and continue to build a portfolio of attractive future drilling opportunities.

So in conclusion, ExxonMobil remains focused on creating value through the cycle. We are advancing self-help initiatives, driving down costs, increasing efficiency, improving reliability and capturing incremental margin across the integrated portfolio. First quarter the corporation earned $1.8 billion in a difficult business climate benefiting from structural advantages in our downstream and chemical operations. Integrated business generated $5 billion in cash flow from operations and asset sales.

We continue to successfully progress our investment plans, increasing upstream production volumes from 4.3 million oil equivalent barrels a day while reducing CapEx and upholding our reputation as a reliable operator. ExxonMobil paid $3.1 billion in dividends during the quarter sharing the Corporation's success directly with our shareholders, and we remain steadfast in our commitment to pay a reliable and growing dividend. That concludes my prepared remarks, and I would now be happy to take your questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: Thank you, Mr. Woodbury.

(Operator Instructions)

Our first question comes from Doug Terreson from Evercore ISI.

DOUG TERRESON, ANALYST, EVERCORE ISI: In the downstream volume for both gasoline and distillate seem to be weaker than the industry markers during the quarter and also over the past year. My question's twofold, one, how much of the weakness can be attributed to items such as divestiture, unscheduled down time, et cetera, what is the real apples to apples comparison for the Company. Two with these results I wanted to see if you had a little more color or maybe a more specific read through into the key economies around the world. You touched on it at the outset Just wanted to see if you had a little bit more specifics in that area.

JEFF WOODBURY: Yes, I think on the first item I'd tell you just stepping back a little bit on the downstream our fuel margins were weaker with distillate margins being at five-year lows due to as your much aware global surplus capacity and high commercial inventories and obviously that was aggravated by a warm winter and low heating oil demand. Particularly in the US less demand in the energy sector, although gasoline margins remain strong and demand is growing above capacity growth.

We saw as I said in my prepared comments that from a volume perspective, we had increased maintenance activity predominantly in Europe in the first quarter of this year. If you compare it sequentially, first quarter to fourth quarter we had a much higher load on planned maintenance. I will say broadly speaking, Doug in 2016 our overall planned maintenance will be lower than 2015, but we will have a fairly heavy first half.

DOUG TERRESON: And then maybe a read-through, little bit more specific read-through into the global economy. I mean these numbers were weak. I think you highlighted that, but do you have anything else to add to your comments earlier?

JEFF WOODBURY: No, I mean I think I would step back more so from a macro on supply and demand and if you look at the last decade overall demand has increased about 1 million barrels a day, maybe a little less than that, and if you look at demand growth here in the last two years plus this year, 2014, 2015, and into 2016 as to what we expect, we're seeing demand growth in excess of our -- of the ten-year demand growth. I think it's a good indication of pretty healthy demand increase, very consistent with our outlook for energy with oil growth growing about 0.6 of a percent per year and gas growing about 1.7% or 1.6% per year.

DOUG TERRESON: Okay. And in second Jeff, but return on capital and valuation have declined versus the previous cycle for most energy companies, and I think that prompted one of your competitors to indicate that returns, even at the expense of growth would probably be their new path forward, and so while Rex made pretty clear that returns were still important for ExxonMobil, but my question is whether there's been any specific movement towards maybe changing the future balance between spending and shareholder distributions, or do you guys think that as pre productive capital normalizes that the situation will resolve by itself? So how do you guys think about that?

JEFF WOODBURY: From a macro perspective we're constructive on oil and gas demand. We have maintained a very disciplined capital allocation approach with a longer-term horizon. That hasn't changed. We've been through these down cycles before.

We've built this business to be very durable in a low-price environment, and we've maintained the financial flexibility throughout in order to continue to take advantage of opportunities whether they're at the top of the cycle or at the bottom. The return on capital employed continues to be a very strong focus for us. You've heard us talk in the past, Doug, about a strategic decision years back to go ahead and invest in a number of major upstream projects concurrently in order to capture a very unique value that probably no one else could capture like ExxonMobil.

That had a draw, a burden on the return on capital employed for a period of time, but rest assured, all those investments are being tested across our average financial performance to ensure that we are adding accretive value, and we still view the return on capital employed as a key metric in the end as to how effective our value choices are.

DOUG TERRESON: Okay. Great, Jeff, thanks.

JEFF WOODBURY: Okay.

OPERATOR: And our next question comes from Evan Calio from Morgan Stanley.

EVAN CALIO, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Hi, good morning, Jeff.

JEFF WOODBURY: Good morning, Evan.

EVAN CALIO: Okay, my first question is on unconventional,, you're running close to 96 rigs at the peak of the last cycle down to 16 today, four in the Bakken, the Permian given the environment. I know -- I know you presented a significant potential growth for Exxon but I just want to understand how you -- somewhat related to Terreson's question, how are you thinking about activity in a recovery?

You have a lot of options, a rigorous process. Is there an oil price, is it excess cash flow target or even a fund edge fundamental outlook in supply demand that will drive your swing in the shorter cycle resource? In a recovery that is.

JEFF WOODBURY: Yes. Well, let me ask you to think about it this way, Evan. It really -- for ExxonMobil it really starts at the macro level with our view of supply and demand.

As I explained to Doug a moment ago, we've been very constructive on long-term energy demand. For our long cycle investments it's really a function of project maturity that actually maximizes value best keeping in mind our prudent financial management to ensure that we're meeting our commitments and maintaining financial flexibility.

Now for the shorter cycle investments that you're really asking about, by and large it is the same, but with a much narrower focus on the near-term business climate, so it's not really a price trigger for us. It's really a combination of all the relevant factors to ensure that we're maintaining our very prudent financial management, but at the same time ensure that we have financial flexibility, continue to invest when the opportunities come along.

And as, I mean we're spending $23 billion this year, which represents a lot of investment activity.

EVAN CALIO: I mean, I know you're -- there's a great consistency to your approach through the cycles and through time. Yet, do you see the allocation changing in any way favoring a shorter cycle resource versus more conventional allocation given some of the changes that could be evident through the cycle, through the forward cycles. I'll leave it at that.

JEFF WOODBURY: I think, Evan, it's a good question and probably worthy of a more deeper discussion at some times. The mix of shorter cycle and longer cycle has changed over time. Obviously as our inventory base grew in the lower 48 unconventional, but our fundamentals or how we manage the business hasn't changed at all, and the choices that we're making are really driven by how do we maximize shareholder value.

All these investments compete, and as we've said previously, we are not opportunity constrained. We've got a very, very deep inventory across the portfolio, not only in the upstream but also in our downstream and chemical business and in just making sure that when we progress a project, an investment decision, that we have identified the optimized value proposition for it, and it's competing for that capital across the portfolio.

So it -- I wouldn't tell you that we ever sat targets around segmenting the total investment program between long cycle and short cycle. It's just a -- the factors I talked about a moment ago, making sure that we're the investments have matured, that we believe we've maximized value, and that we maintain prudent financial management and ensure that we can meet all of our commitments and retain our financial flexibility. But we've got a very deep and diverse inventory of investment opportunities.

EVAN CALIO: Okay. Thank you.

JEFF WOODBURY: Thanks, Evan.

OPERATOR: And our next question will come from Brad Heffern from Royal Bank of Canada Capital Markets.

BRAD HEFFERN, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Good morning, Jeff.

JEFF WOODBURY: Good morning, Brad.

BRAD HEFFERN: I was wondering if you could put a finer point on the chemicals performance during the quarter. It seems like it was a little stronger than maybe the macro environment would have suggested. I think you cited cost savings or operating cost savings in your prepared remarks, but is there any more detail you can provide around it?

JEFF WOODBURY: There's been really good -- step back again here for a moment. Also very constructive on chemical demand growth growing about 1.5% above GDP, and that really sets up the investment proposition going forward. If you -- if you look across the segment, commodities have been growing pretty strong, very tight, particularly in Europe and Asia, demand growth has been growing much quicker.

It really sets up a really good investment proposition into the future. The margin benefit is primarily feed in energy dropping quicker than product realizations. I'd also say, though, that our gas crackers continue to be advantaged, even though the liquid crackers margins have improved, the gas crackers here in North America continue to have a very advantaged feed stock slate that allows us to compete very strongly in the demand market globally.

BRAD HEFFERN: Okay. Thanks for that. And then looking at CapEx, I think the number for the quarter is pretty well below in terms of a run rate basis the 2016 CapEx guidance. I'm curious if you're expecting, seasonality in that number or if there's a reason to expect that's going to increase meaningfully going forward or if you're actually, truly below the CapEx on a run rate basis.

JEFF WOODBURY: Yes, Brad, so just to set the stage. As you all remember, our CapEx for 2016 is down 25% set at about $23 billion. The organization has not taken their foot off the pedal. They continue to work towards identifying capital efficiency opportunities.

We're still capturing market savings, and importantly and I'll emphasize this, is that we're delivering our major projects on schedule and on budget and in many cases ahead of schedule and below budget. All of that is translating into capital savings that you're seeing in the first quarter of this year. We're not going to change our capital guidance at this point, but I'll tell you that we are -- we're making great progress.

I'll just say for a moment that the organization has really responded to a low price environment in a very effective way. They keep very focused throughout the cycle but particularly in the bottom of the cycle, I mean really risen to the occasion and continues to identify substantial opportunities for the corporation to save both cash and OpEx.

BRAD HEFFERN: Thanks Jeff.

JEFF WOODBURY: All right.

OPERATOR: And our next question will come from Doug Leggate from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.

DOUG LEGGATE, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Thanks, good morning, everyone. Good morning, Jeff.

JEFF WOODBURY: Good morning, Doug.

DOUG LEGGATE: I also have a couple of questions if I may. My first one is really about somewhat specific on the oil sands business. It's been a fairly large part of your, the project rules and the shift towards liquids and so on, but obviously in this environment I have to imagine it's a substantial drag on your cash margins.

I'm just wondering if you could -- to the extent you can just give us some idea what the economics of [carol] and your oil sands business generally Coldlake and so on looks like in this environment, and what I'm really thinking about is the kind of free cash [pork] that could generate in a recovery scenario. I've got a follow-up, please.

JEFF WOODBURY: Yes, I mean generally speaking the oil sands certainly no doubt profitability's compressed in this price environment, but the organization once again keeps very focused on the fundamentals, particularly our costs and reliability, and they're making really good progress. They're finding structural enhancements that create margin at the bottom line.

If you think about the resource base that we've got in oil sands, we've been working the oil sands now for over three decades including technology development, and on the mining side, I think [curls] are great example where we applied proprietary technology that was able to reduce our capital investment, our operating costs and improve our environmental footprint that will increase long-term value.

The same is true for the in situ operations. We've been optimizing our cyclic steam operations at Coldlake for a long time. We're identifying additional technology benefits like solvent assisted -- steam assisted gravity drainage technology that will improve, once again, the recovery and lower our costs and improve our environmental footprint.

I think it's a testament to how ExxonMobil manages its portfolio. We work the project management and execution very, very well, and then when it starts up, they just keep on working on that cost structure and create margin, because we know we can't count on price.

What we've got to count on is the things that we control, that being cost and reliability and our integrity of the operations. But the last point I'd make is remember, we also get value across the full value chain, because our upstream is fully integrated with our downstream and chemical business.

DOUG LEGGATE: Right, right. Jeff, my follow-up and I'm going to have a stab at this one. It might be a very short answer, but on Guyana, I'm going to frame my question like this. My understanding is that the appraisal well is something of a two-stage effort, stage one being pre before the drill stamp test, and I'm just curious the extent you can share with us whether that well has achieved its objectives and the additional plans perhaps to being a second rig and any comments on additional prospects that have been identified at this point. I realize it's early but just looking for any update you can share on that objective.

JEFF WOODBURY: Sure Doug, and I understand the interest that you and others have about Guyana. I mean, we were certainly very encouraged by the discovery well. The organization moved quickly to get a drill ship contracted and get it on site to appraise the Liza discovery.

The well spud in February we do plan to drill multiple wells this year. Liza 2 is progressing according to expectations. We will plan to test the well, and we should complete that activity mid-year.

As I said in my prepared comments, we did complete the 3D seismic survey on the Stabroek block, and we began a survey on the Canje block which we picked up to the east of the Stabroek block. The well and seismic data is being assessed realtime in order to provide insights into the discovery and the ultimate block potential.

We do plan on moving the rig from the Liza appraisal well over to a new prospect to the northwest after it is done at Liza.

DOUG LEGGATE: All right. Jeff, I appreciate the answer. Thank you.

JEFF WOODBURY: You're welcome.

OPERATOR: And our next question comes from Sam Margolin from Cowen and Company.

SAM MARGOLIN, ANALYST, COWEN AND COMPANY: Good morning.

JEFF WOODBURY: Good morning, Sam.

SAM MARGOLIN: There's actually quite a bit of enthusiasm developing for NGLs in the US right now among the investor community. I was wondering if you could offer sort of a -- an outlook on how that might impact Exxon going forward in the context of your sort of overall gas outlook and, you could even get more esoteric regarding heat content and all the benefits you might see in your unconventional gas business given the fact that US upstream earnings have been dragging a little bit here for the past few quarters,.

JEFF WOODBURY: It's a good question, because it really highlights the benefits once again the business that we've got from the resource territory in unconventionals in the US all the way through to our chemical business. What's important is that we have built the chemical business to have a very wide flexible range of feed stock capability including ethane, propane, butane, all the way to gas oil.

So we've got significant flexibility within the chemical business to modify the feed stock in order to maximize margins. I'd say the same is true for Europe and Asia, particularly in Asia-Pacific in our Singapore refinery -- cracker that we have an unprecedented range of feed stocks including the ability to crack crude oil which is an industry first.

SAM MARGOLIN: Okay. Thanks. That's very helpful. And secondly on M&A, I think Mr. Tillerson was pretty clear at the analyst day that the organization is not interested in kind of taking on encumbered assets, but ExxonMobil has pretty good currency here, and I was wondering just in the context of whatever S&P's reasoning was in the revision if there's an opportunity to maybe equitize through M&A or asset additions or if that's even a factor considering that Moody's still has the stable rating.

JEFF WOODBURY: Sam, I'd tell you nothing has really changed on how we manage our portfolio. Asset management contains the potential for accretive assets through acquisitions. As we've talked previously, and as you heard from Rex that we keep very alert to where there are potential value propositions to high grade our existing portfolio.

We're only going to pursue those acquisitions that we think have strategic value and are going to be accretive to our long-term returns, and it's got to compete with the existing inventory opportunities that we've got. We've got to be patient. ,We want to make sure that we keep a very wide aperture on what the opportunities look like.

I think we've got a good handle on where there are opportunities, but we need to make sure that it is value accretive to the business. And once we are able to lock in on an opportunity like that, you'll hear about it.

SAM MARGOLIN: Thanks so much. Have a good one.

JEFF WOODBURY: Thank you.

OPERATOR: And our next question comes from Phil Gresh from JPMorgan.

PHIL GRESH, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Hey, Jeff, good morning.

JEFF WOODBURY: Good morning Phil.

PHIL GRESH: First question on the quarter, you mentioned some color on the tax rate. It sounds like you separated it into two pieces. One was mix and the other was some one-time effects in the corporate and financing segment, and it sounds like the corporate and financing piece you expect to kind of revert to the $500 million to $700 million a quarter.

I was just curious maybe on the mix side, kind of what drove that and if you think about the full-year tax rate would you expect that to still be similar to last year at current oil price levels?

JEFF WOODBURY: Yes, on the mix side I tell you it always has to do with the -- the relative contribution between US, international, between upstream, downstream, and our chemical businesses, and you can just sense from my comments that there's a lot of complexity in that. In terms of what -- excuse me.

In terms of what to expect going forward, I'd say if we were talking about, 2015 commodity prices our guidance would stay at an effective tax rate of between 35% to 40%. Now, if we're in a lower commodity price environment like we saw in the first quarter, we're probably looking at something less than 30%.

PHIL GRESH: Okay. That's helpful. Second question is just a follow-up on the balance sheet. Looking at it slightly differently, your absolute debt levels are now around $43 billion and just kind of wondering how you feel about that comfort-wise as you look through the cycle. In a better environment with more cash flow, is debt pay down on an absolute basis in any way a priority or would you be thinking about other uses of cash?

JEFF WOODBURY: Well, I mean we'll obviously one of the considerations when we think about our capital allocation is retirement of debt, so we'll keep mindful. But, remember, we've got a very strong balance sheet. We will look at, the relative decisions around investments in the business, the pace of investments, our commitment to our reliable and growing dividend, and then, appropriately consideration on long-term debt levels.

It's all about maintaining prudent cash management, maintaining our financial flexibility. We'll continue to be disciplined in our investment approach. We're not going to forego attractive opportunities, but we'll continue to assess our cash and our funding operations -- options around a range of options and take a very balanced approach on how we go forward in our capital deployment.

PHIL GRESH: If I were just to clarify, would debt pay down be a priority over buybacks?

JEFF WOODBURY: Yes, I really -- that's a decision that would be taken by the board that will be a function of a lot of factors, Phil. I wouldn't -- I wouldn't leave you with any impression that there's any prioritization that I'm conveying.

PHIL GRESH: Yes, okay. Thanks.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Paul Cheng from Barclays.

PAUL CHENG, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Hey, guys, good morning. Jeff, I have two questions, the first one may need a little bit more detail. Just let me know. If we're looking at the economics, have you talked to your downstream people whether right now economic to bring naphtha into the US gasoline pool or that you're better off to ship naphtha into your cracker for the petrochemical in Europe or Asia.

JEFF WOODBURY: Paul, are you asking about bringing naphtha.

PAUL CHENG: From US --

JEFF WOODBURY: Importing it into our -- into the US?

PAUL CHENG: No, no, exporting from you-- either because I mean in order to -- still have excess naphtha in this country so the question that I have is have you discussed it with your refining and chemical colleagues whether it's more economic for them to take the naphtha and they bring it into the -- into the gasoline pool in the US or that to export it into the overseas such as in European or in your Asia petrochemical to use it there.

JEFF WOODBURY: Yes, we maintain tremendous flexibility on our feed stock options, and that's a realtime optimization that we're managing, and we'll optimize those feeds based on the best available returns. That's moving -- that's including moving feeds between continents.

PAUL CHENG: Yes, but just curious do you have any prior insight that you can share at this point that how's the economic -- the shift, is it more in favor of branding into the gasoline pool in this country or it is exporting?

JEFF WOODBURY: Yes, Paul I really don't have anything else to share on it other than to say it's a dynamic issue that we continue to optimize, and I would say that we are very well-positioned to ensure that we're making the best value choices with respect to our feed stock slate.

PAUL CHENG: The second question is that for the Point Thomson you mentioned in your remark that also give you a [pet form] or a demonstration for potentially in the future, Alaska [air and g] project. Let's assume if the Alaska air and g won't go ahead and is really not economic at all, is the Point Thompson still a good investment by yourself without that purpose?

JEFF WOODBURY: Yes, I would tell you, Paul, that we look at these decisions on a long-term, and, given the constructive view what we think gas is going to do over time, we are confident that the Alaska gas will be commercialized. As to how that actually happens it may vary from what we're currently considering, but,, the -- we have been very active with our partners and the state to identify the highest value opportunity in order to commercialize that gas, and it's going to compete on a global perspective. What's going to be really critical is getting transparent predictable and stable fiscal structure in place in order to make sure that it underpins such a significant investment.

PAUL CHENG: . All right. Thank you.

JEFF WOODBURY: Thank you, Paul.

OPERATOR: And our next question comes from Blake Fernandez from Howard Weil.

BLAKE FERNANDEZ, ANALYST, SCOTIA HOWARD WEIL: I was hoping you could share little more about the rationale of the dividend increase. I know during analyst day you provided a cash flow break even potential in 2016. It sounds like during your remarks today you had eluded to some capital efficiency and maybe potential for capital to be moving down, so I didn't know if it would be fair to think that cash flow break even number has potential to potentially move down and if that played into your thoughts around the dividend increase?

JEFF WOODBURY: Yes. I think when you're referring to the -- the cash flow neutrality slide that we shared with you during the analyst presentation, and if you recall, it's just a -- it's a perspective of how we're managing our cash and how we manage the business, and the organization is always trying to reduce that cost structure and improve the ultimate margins, and you're correct.

I mean we had a -- we feel fairly confident that -- that we can achieve cash flow neutrality into the future. I mean, the -- what we shared with you during the analyst meeting was a very wide range on prices, but one that's reasonable with the low end being $40 flat real, and you can see that we have good potential to reach that cash flow neutrality particularly in 2017 forward.

As I said earlier, we continue to reduce our cash expenditures and making good gains. But I would tell you that when we make the decisions around capital allocation, it's a consideration of a lot of factors. We're going to balance our long-term investment with our shareholder distributions.

Nothing has changed, but I'll tell you that we remain very committed to that reliable and growing dividend.

BLAKE FERNANDEZ: Okay. Great. The second one is just kind of project specific. I know you mentioned Kashagan coming on line later this year. I think there were some press reports that could get pushed out to 2017. Can you remind me I believe Exxon was slated to take over operatorship. Are you formally controlling the new flow on that, or are you relying on peers at this point?

JEFF WOODBURY: No, the -- Kashagan is managed by the North Caspian Operating Company. What you may recall hearing is that was structured in a more conventional manner, and ExxonMobil seconded the director for NCOC. In terms of timing, what we're doing there is we're replacing the on shore offshore gas and oil pipelines where NCOC is, and they're making good progress. They're progressing as per planned with intention to complete that by the end of this year and start up the facility.

BLAKE FERNANDEZ: Okay. Thanks a bunch.

OPERATOR: And our next question comes from Asit Sen from CLSA Americas.

ASIT SEN, ANALYST, CLSA: Good morning Jeff. The two upstream questions, one on upper Zakum and one on west Africa. On upper Zakum in Abu Dhabi, Jeff, there were talks to expand capacity to over 1 million barrels per day. Could you update us on the current thought process on expansion and where production is currently? And secondly on west Africa, Exxon had decent success last year in starting up new projects [kazambanagolaenera] in Nigeria. How would you characterize the current operating environment in some of the key countries given all the reported fiscal stress. I know it's probably a generic comment but any color would be helpful.

JEFF WOODBURY: On upper Zakum, current production is around 500 -- or 650,000 barrels a day. It's -- the project itself is progressing well to increase capacity ultimately to 750,000 barrels a day. We are continuing to evaluate the opportunity to expand to a 1 million-barrel a day development, so really nothing more to share on that. On west Africa --

ASIT SEN: Jeff, on the time frame for 750,000 is what time frame.

JEFF WOODBURY: Getting up to that full 750?

ASIT SEN: Yes.

JEFF WOODBURY: I don't recall by -- probably around by 2018.

ASIT SEN: Okay.

JEFF WOODBURY: On west Africa like you said we've made some really good progress, but just a broad comment about globally, with country budgets feeling the strain of low energy prices, it is slowing down investment globally, and that is a challenge to make sure that we progress those investments at a pace that is consistent with the resource owner. I'll say that we have a very strong inventory of opportunities in west Africa, but we've got to do it consistent with confidence in the fiscal basis in which we're making those investments.

ASIT SEN: Thank you.

JEFF WOODBURY: Okay. Thank you, Asit.

OPERATOR: And our next question comes from Roger Read from Wells Fargo.

ROGER READ, ANALYST, WELLS FARGO SECURITIES, LLC: Thank you. Good morning.

JEFF WOODBURY: Good morning, Roger.

ROGER READ: I guess if we could talk maybe a little bit about cost deflation kind of where you're progressing both on the CapEx and the OpEx side and whether kind of consistent with one of the questions asked earlier, if there was any seasonal component to that we should be thinking about.

JEFF WOODBURY: Yes, so just a recap for the results that we had last year. We were able to reduce our total CapEx and cash OpEx by about $16 million year-over-year representing about a 16% decrease. In terms of going forward in 2016, nothing's really changed. We continue to manage the cost side as we always have focusing on structural efficiencies, market savings while maintaining operational integrity.

I'll tell you Roger, we still believe there's significant opportunity in streamlining the business and reducing the cost structure, and I'd say it's -- while it's early in the year we're seeing a similar trend line as to last year. But we will maintain that relentless focus on cost regardless of whether we're in a low-price environment or in a high-priced environment.

Just to give you a bit of a perspective, again, being very early in the year our upstream unit costs for OpEx are down about 9%.

ROGER READ: Okay. Great. That's helpful. And along those same lines, at this point oil prices rebounded. The market's starting to thinking about an ultimate recovery in drilling activity.

Do you take advantage? I mean, consistent with your view on there's a lot more costs to get out. Is this a point at which you'd want to sign contracts, kind of lock in service capacity, service pricing, kind of anywhere around the world really.

JEFF WOODBURY: Well, I mean I would say Roger that in the downturn we have been high grading our service providers, and we've been locking in more favorable, more efficient service contracts. So it's not something that we had stopped doing. I mean, one of the advantages of ExxonMobil is that we're able to invest through the cycle.

That means that in a down cycle, we're continuing to spend a significant amount of money to capture value opportunities associated with that down cycle. So, of course the organization, and you've heard me talk previously, Roger, about the global procurement business, but it's all focused around finding the lowest life cycle costs, and you're correct to say that in a low-priced environment there are some unique opportunities that we want to lock into.

ROGER READ: Okay. Thank you.

JEFF WOODBURY: Thank you.

OPERATOR: And our next question comes from Neil Mehta from Goldman Sachs.

NEIL MEHTA, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Hey, good morning, Jeff.

JEFF WOODBURY: Good morning, Neil.

NEIL MEHTA: So clearly $48 Brent's not a great price but it's a heck of a lot better than $30 a barrel Brent so it feels like this market is moving in the right direction. Demand is growing, and we're seeing signs now an OPEC supply is coming offline. I just want to reconcile that with your view.

Does Exxon believe that we are starting to see the signs of a sustained recovery in energy prices, particularly crude, and because you get to see the world through your portfolio, one of the big debates is is a non-OPEC supply outside the US really rolling over because of the decline rates? Are you seeing evidence that supply outside the US is actually falling off?

JEFF WOODBURY: Yes. The first thing I'd say, Neil, and it's really a good thought around how the macro's looking and how the sector will respond to it. I'd say first and foremost is that remember, we are price takers. We are not counting on price growth.

What we are focused on is really maintaining a focus on the things that we control in order to create margin, so regardless of what it's going to do, it's going to do it, and we're going to keep focused on the things that we control. Second thing I'd say and it's just a little more expansion of what I was sharing with Doug earlier is that underlying demand growth has been generally strong, and we expect this year will be in excess of the ten-year average.

Now I would say that in the first half of 2016, we're still over-supplied by about a million and a half barrels per day. We do expect to see convergence in the second half with the seasonal demand groaned growth but that's going to widen in the first half of 2017. And remember, during this period of over supply we've been building up commercial inventories since about year-end 2013.

So thinking forward, we are seeing a convergence over supply and demand into the future, but we've got this overhead of supply that's going to also have to work off over time. So we're headed in the right direction. In terms of how and when that will happen will be anybody's guess.

Remember there's still a bit of uncertainty in terms of the supply trend and the economic growth near-term, but clearly we're seeing as you're all aware, we're seeing North America supply dropping off pretty significantly now.

NEIL MEHTA: I appreciate that, Jeff, and then two questions, related questions here, first is any update on Torrance and then second what's the latest on Groningen?

JEFF WOODBURY: Yes, so on Torrance, we have completed the repairs of the electrostatic precipitator, and that we have received the approval from the regulator to go ahead and start operations. So, there's a number of things that we need to do to get it up, and, capacity demonstrated, but we do expect the formal change and control to happen mid-2016.

NEIL MEHTA: And Groningen?

JEFF WOODBURY: On Groningen, as you know we continue to have a pretty significant impact on volumes in the quarter. It was close to 600 million cubic feet a day. We have made our -- [nam] has made the submission for the new production forecast going forward, and my understanding is is that the regulator will review that by September of this year. Right now the cap is at 27 billion cubic meters, but it has the potential to go up depending on what demand requirements are.

NEIL MEHTA: All right, thanks Jeff.

JEFF WOODBURY: You're welcome.

OPERATOR: And our next question comes from Paul Sankey from Wolfe Research.

PAUL SANKEY, ANALYST, WOLFE RESEARCH: Jeff, I was looking back at the interview that Rex Tillerson gave after the analyst meeting when he was asked about the triple A rating, and what he said quite specifically is that there's been periods where Exxon's financial metrics have been worse than they are today, but you still retained a triple A rating, and obviously as you mentioned in your remarks, you have been downgraded by S&P.

Naturally I went to S&P and what I saw there was the comment that maintaining production and replacing reserves will require higher spending from Exxon. So it seems that given the financial metrics are not the issue, that it seems there's an upstream issue that S&P is concerned about.

Can you talk about your ability to maintain production and reserves at the current level of spending and address whether or not they're correct in thinking that you are going to have to spend a lot more to maintain reserves in production. Thanks.

JEFF WOODBURY: Sure, Paul. First off I'd remind everybody that we've got a very large inventory of investment opportunities, over 90 billion barrels of resource in our portfolio, and if you recall in the analyst presentation, we provide a little bit more insight as to the type of projects and their potential capacity they can bring on over the time horizon. Now of course what we need to do is we need to make sure that as we mature the inventory of projects, we're doing it with the greatest value proposition, and I think we've made great strides in finding unique opportunities in order to reduce the cost structure going forward.

I'd say, though, Paul, that we've been through these cycles for a long time. We've been able to maintain a very strong balance sheet. We've maintained our financial flexibility through the ups and downs, and, our inventory looks very attractive going forward. So we think all the elements are set right to continue invest in an attractive way to maintain our lead on industry return on capital employed.

The other point I'd remind you is as we showed in the analyst presentation,, we have done very well in terms of efficiency of deploying investment dollars. If you'll recall, the upstream capital efficiency chart that we used in an analyst presentation showing our capital employed over proved reserves clearly we're distinguishing ourselves relative to others.

PAUL SANKEY: Okay, Jeff, because of time constraints, I'll just jump into the other one. You again, mentioned return on capital employed. I really struggle with you losing money in the upstream on an earnings basis, particularly in the US, and how you reconcile that with the measure of the return on capital employed. Typically we don't look at that, we look at the cash flow measure. Can you help us with the DD&A upstream particularly in the US so we can get to the cash returns that you're making as opposed to these losses upstream.

JEFF WOODBURY: We've got a very strong portfolio in the upstream, and remember that we invest with a long-term view that's informed by our long-term energy demand outlook. All of our assets were managed to maximize returns through the life cycle with the objective of maintaining positive cash flow in low price environments. We'll continue to focus on those things that we control, cost, reliability, operational integrity.

Importantly, we'll invest in attractive opportunities throughout the cycle that further enhance the asset profitability, and we see significant value in our assets, so, yes, there is a low price. We're in a low price period like we've been in the past. As I've said we've really designed these assets to be very durable during a low price environment.

They continued to generate -- our producing assets continue to generate cash flow, and over the long-term we will continue to demonstrate,, industry leading returns on capital employed.

PAUL SANKEY: Okay. Thanks.

JEFF WOODBURY: Thanks, Paul.

OPERATOR: And our next question comes from Anish Kapadia from Tudor Pickering Holt.

ANISH KAPADIA, ANALYST, TUDOR, PICKERING, HOLT & CO. SECURITIES: Hi, yes, just had a question on,, project execution. I think Exxon has clearly shown leadership amongst your peers on project execution over the last few years, but Exxon doesn't seem to have sanctioned any major upstream projects of note the last couple of years, and do we see anything on the horizon to be sanctioned for this year, so I'm just wondering how' d you intend to benefit from the quality of your project execution if you're not progressing with projects of the moment.

JEFF WOODBURY: Thanks for the question, Anish. I tell you that we will announce our FIDs after the Company's made that funding decision, so we really don't project it. But as I indicated just a moment ago, we gave you an insight through our analyst presentation and F&O as to the type of projects that we're currently working on, and we've really taken this down cycle as an opportunity to retest the value proposition for each one of these investment opportunities, and there are some incremental benefits that we're able to capture through, anywhere from design changes to different ways to execute the project given the service market to fiscal basis.

So, this is a good opportunity to step back and make sure that we're really capturing the most value from these investments. So we gave you some line of sight on the upstream. I'll just remind you that we've got ten major projects still underway in the upstream that will start up between 2016 and 2017 as well as we maintain a very active, high-value work program, and we gave you some insight on that during an analyst presentation as well with a very deep inventory of opportunities.

So in summary, I'd tell you a large inventory of investment opportunities that are in various stages of planning and execution. When we get to the point where we've made an investment decision, we'll share that publicly, but the pace will be consistent upon project maturity to maximize value and our prudent financial management. And then of course remember, Anish, that we've got a lot of -- a number of very large investments underway in our downstream and chemical business.

ANISH KAPADIA: Okay. Thank you. And just one follow-up more specifically on Nigeria because you've got a number of projects that appear to have been in your project queue for a number of years, the [sandfly] field projects, the [Uge Bosso Bossy] fields, and I see you've added yet another project Awawa west into for that project queue.

Just wondering what -- what was kind of prevented you from sanctioning some of those projects been around far long time, and what needs to change in Nigeria for you to be able to go ahead with project?

JEFF WOODBURY: Yes, I tell you that some of these projects are a function of optimizing the design all the way through to getting alignment with partners and establishing the right fiscal basis to go ahead and make the investment.

ANISH KAPADIA: Thank you.

OPERATOR: And our next question will come from Edward Westlake from Credit Suisse.

EDWARD WESTLAKE, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Good morning Jeff, great call so far, very informative. Just on gas, we've got over supplied markets in the US and Europe and in Asia. Now clearly the best cure for gas prices being low is low gas prices. Demand will probably pick up as a result of the time.

Can you give us a sense of the magnitude of potential gas declines across the portfolio as you exercise [captain bis]across the next four or five years?

JEFF WOODBURY: Yes, you're talking with respect to our portfolio, Ed?

EDWARD WESTLAKE: I'm really thinking about base business. Obviously we know that you've got some new projects coming on stream operated by others like Gorgon, et cetera.

JEFF WOODBURY: You've seen in our volumes that our gas volumes have dropped off,, in part, and largely in the US but in part that is due to a switch from gas drilling to higher value liquids drilling during this down cycle. Gas, Ed, we continue to be very constructive growing at about 1.6% per year, primarily driven by the power sector L&G, we expect to triple from current capacity between now and 2040.

So I think we've got the long-term value proposition well within our sight, and it's just pacing those investments consistent with that demand growth to make sure that we capture full value for it, but we've got a very deep inventory of gas, and if you look at our proved reserves, it's somewhere around 45 to 48 percent of our total proved reserves, comparable source of our reserve base, and importantly it adds significant value to the value chain. It provides an advantage for our steam cracking here in North America.

You may recall that we're in the progress of progressing the expansion over at bay town, adding another 110 tons per annum of cracking capacity, and in conjunction adding polyethylene lines over at Mont Belvieu. So,, it's got a significant component of our future, very deep inventory, pace will be a function of demand.

EDWARD WESTLAKE: Maybe a specific on Asia gas. You went I think from 4.1 down to 3.8 in the quarter. You mentioned PSE impacts in gas, maybe just run through what's happening there. Is it sort of customers are exercising low DCQs on the L&G contracts or is there something else going on?

JEFF WOODBURY: Three major -- three major drivers there. One was planned maintenance. Second one being asset management, some divestments, and the third one being price impacts.

EDWARD WESTLAKE: So you're not seeing customers exercise low quantity 9contolernaces]?

JEFF WOODBURY: Well, I mean I really can't talk about specific contracts, but it's primarily driven by the three items I shared with you.

EDWARD WESTLAKE: Okay. Thanks very much.

JEFF WOODBURY: Thank you, Ed.

OPERATOR: Operator. And our next question will come from Iain Reid from Macquarie.

IAIN REID, ANALYST, MACQUARIE RESEARCH EQUITIES: Hi, Jeff.

JEFF WOODBURY: Good morning.

IAIN REID: Couple of questions for you. You talked about the North American US low 48 liquid productions falling, but ExxonMobil's [price] isn't falling It's going up. Is this a kind of deliberate decision to invest counter cyclically.

You talked about your long-term vision, et cetera, or is it something specific to your acreage where, you're getting more barrels out of your existing wells? Because, you're contributing to the problem rather than the solution if you're growing your low 48 volumes. And I've got a follow-up after that. I tell you Ian that as I said earlier that we're able to continue to invest in the down cycle, and that provides an opportunity for us to capture lower cost structure in the investments that we're making. So particularly in the lower 48 unconventionals, it's allowed us to high grade the rig activity, we're down quite significantly in terms of our peak rigs were in excess of 60. Now we're down to about 16. We have reduced our activity materially.

So continue to pursue the attractive unconventional opportunities that we have predominantly in the Permian Bakken, and we're getting great value for it, so it just shows the value proposition that ExxonMobil is able to provide, because we have the capability to invest through the cycle. Okay. And my follow-up question is on chemicals. Obviously very strong numbers in this quarter. The environment is obviously pretty favorable out there in terms of natural gas prices as feed stock and also the fact there's a lot of maintenance activities out there so lower production but looking a little bit further forward, there's more volumes coming on stream, your building capacity as well.

Do you see this kind of chemical cycle at the peak now and then going into a bit of a trough toward the second half of this year and into next year, or does Exxon have a kind of -- a more kind of positive view of the market.

JEFF WOODBURY: Yes, I mean currently olefins and polyolefins have been pretty tight, and demand is continuing to grow, and it's outpacing capacity additions. And I think that's an important investment opportunity. Remember, this is all our investment decisions, Iain, are really founded on our view of long-term demand, and on the chemical side as I mentioned earlier we expect demand to grow about 1.5% above GDP.

Now I'll tell you that underlying demand growth across the olefins, polyolefins, the aromatics, our specialties, has been fairly robust. Now sometimes the supply, the capacity additions are outpacing that, and that's what you're seeing for instance in paraxylene, but broadly speaking the demand is robust, and it's going to continue to grow, and we think it presents some investment opportunities.

IAIN REID: Even with the growth in ethylene supply that we're looking at in the US over the next year or so?

JEFF WOODBURY: That's correct.

IAIN REID: Okay. All right, Jeff, very helpful. Thank you very much.

JEFF WOODBURY: Thank you, Iain.

OPERATOR: And we have time for one last question, and that will come from John Herrlin from Societe General.

JOHN HERRLIN, ANALYST, SOCIETE GENERALE: Yes, thank you. Just a quick one for me, Jeff, on Guyana. You have multiple structures in your lease area. In the event that you have multiple successes should we consider Guyana to be kind of an analog to what you did in Kizomba a while back in terms of design one, build many. And then my other question is can you bring some of these longer cycle projects forward to take advantage of excess E&C capacity today?

You did discuss kind of how you're optimizing things. Can you bring longer cycle programs forward to take advantage of a lower cost environment?

JEFF WOODBURY: Yes, yes, on Guyana, John, and good morning, John. I'd tell you that,, as I -- as I indicated earlier, it is really early days. We need to get a better handle of the full block potential.

But kind of the question around design one, build many, we're doing that across all of our businesses, and the -- I tell you the real modifier in that is,, design it once but continue to get more and more efficient in that design and reduce the cost structure, so it's a -- I would tell you it even expanded globally in terms of how you look at concurrent developments in different parts of the world to make sure that you're fully capturing the benefits of a robust design and execution.

To your point around the engineering and construction contractors, yes, I mean their backlogs are certainly light, and we are very mindful about pacing the investments to make sure that we maximize value, but we want to do it with a clear view on prudent financial management and maintaining our financial flexibility going forward, but I tell you that one of the best opportunities that we have out there is the collaboration that we've been able to have with many of our providers in really encouraging them to bring forward lower cost solutions to see if we can make investments move quicker.

JOHN HERRLIN: Great, thanks.

JEFF WOODBURY: Thank you, John.

OPERATOR: And that concludes today's question and answer session. Mr. Woodbury, at this time I will turn the conference back to you for any additional or closing remarks.

JEFF WOODBURY: Well, thank you. To conclude, I just want to thank you all again for your time and very good questions. It was a insightful discussion I think for all of us, so we appreciate your time this morning, and we very much appreciate your interest in ExxonMobil. And we look forward to talking with you in the future. Thank you.

OPERATOR: This concludes today's conference. Thank you for your participation. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
exxn : Exxon Mobil Corporation
   IN
i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1300003 : Crude Petroleum Extraction | iextra : Natural Gas/Oil Extraction
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Financial Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | africaz : Africa | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020160430ec4t006k8
  


 HD
 Q4  2015  Exxon  Mobil Corp Earnings Call - Final
   WC
12,571 words
   PD
2 February 2016
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©016 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day, everyone, and welcome to this ExxonMobil corporation fourth-quarter and full-year 2015 earnings conference call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time I'd like to turn the call over to the Vice President of Investor Relations and Secretary, Mr. Jeff Woodbury. Please go ahead.

   TD
JEFF WOODBURY, VP OF IR & CORPORATE SECRETARY, EXXON MOBIL CORP: Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning and welcome to ExxonMobil's fourth quarter and full-year 2015 earnings call. My comments this morning will refer to the slides that are available through the investors section of our website.

Before we go further, I would like to draw your attention to our cautionary statement shown on slide 2. Now turning to slide 3, let me begin by summarizing the key headlines of our performance.

ExxonMobil generated full-year earnings of $16.2 billion and fourth quarter earnings of $2.8 billion. These results reflect proven strategies that we've consistently applied for decades, along with a relentless focus on the business fundamentals, including project execution and effective cost management.

While our upstream financial results reflect the challenging business environment, stronger performance in our downstream and chemical segments highlights the resilience of our integrated businesses. ExxonMobil completed six major upstream projects during the year. These new developments in Canada, Indonesia, Norway, the United States and West Africa added 300,000 oil equivalent barrels per day of working interest production capacity and contributed 3.2% volumes growth.

Strong operating performance of the base portfolio, along with these project additions delivered full-year production of $4.1 million oil equivalent barrels per day consistent with our plans. The Corporation's 2015 cash flow from operations and asset sales were $32.7 billion with positive free cash flow of $6.5 billion despite sharply lower crude oil and natural gas prices.

Moving to slide 4, we provide an overview of some of the external factors affecting our results. Global economic growth continued to slow during the fourth quarter across nearly all major economies.

In the US, estimates show growth softening further since the third quarter. In Asia, China continued to decelerate with significant volatility in the financial sector and Japan experienced ongoing economic weakness, whereas Europe's economy remained stable with continued tepid growth.

Crude oil prices extended declines on global oversupply conditions and natural gas prices moved lower, reflecting unseasonably warm weather through the quarter. Furthermore, global refining and chemical margins weakened due to lower seasonal fuels demand and decreased chemical realizations.

Turning now to the financial results on -- shown on slide 5. As indicated, fourth quarter earnings were $2.8 billion or $0.67 per share. Corporation distributed $3.6 billion to shareholders in the quarter through dividends and share purchases to reduce shares outstanding. Of that total, $500 million was used to purchase shares.

CapEx was $7.4 billion, down more than $3 billion from our fourth quarter of 2014. As a result of ongoing capital efficiencies, market savings, reduced activity and timely project delivery. Cash flow from operations and asset sales was $5.1 billion and at the end of the quarter cash total $3.7 billion and debt was $38.7 billion.

The next slide provides more detail on sources and uses of cash. So over the quarter cash decreased from $4.3 billion to $3.7 billion. Earnings adjusted for depreciation expense, changes in working capital and other items, and our ongoing asset management program yielded $5.1 billion of cash flow from operations and asset sales.

The cash decrease from working capital changes includes both normal seasonality as well as the effect of the decline in crude prices on account balances and receivables and payables. Uses include net investments in the business of $6 billion and shareholder distributions of $3.6 billion. Cash flows were balanced over the quarter by increasing short-term borrowing by about $4 billion.

Moving on to slide 7 for a review of our segment results. ExxonMobil's fourth quarter earnings decreased $3.8 billion from a year-ago quarter. Lower upstream earnings were partially offset by stronger downstream results, whereas decreased chemical earnings were mostly offset by lower corporate and financing costs.

In the sequential comparison shown on slide 8, earnings decreased $1.5 billion due to lower earnings across all business segments. On average, corporate and financing expenses are anticipated to be $500 million to $700 million per quarter over the next year, two years.

Turning now to the upstream financial and operating results starting on slide 9, fourth quarter upstream earnings were $857 million, down $4.6 billion from a year-ago quarter, sharply lower commodity prices reduced earnings by more than $3.7 billion. Crude realizations declined more than $30 per barrel and gas was down $2.76 per 1,000 cubic feet.

Favorable volume and mix effects increased earnings by $100 million. Volume additions from new developments were partly offset by regulatory restrictions in the Netherlands.

All other items decreased earnings by $960 million, reflecting the absence of prior-year impacts including US preferred income tax effects and the recognition of a favorable arbitration ruling for expropriated assets in Venezuela. These were partially offset by lower operating costs.

Moving to slide 10, oil equivalent production increased 194,000 barrels per day or 4.8% compared to a year-ago quarter. Liquids production was up almost 300,000 barrels per day or nearly 14% where ramp-up of new development projects, work programs and entitlement effects were partly offset by field decline. Natural gas production decreased about 630 million cubic feet per day due to regulatory restrictions in the Netherlands and field decline, partly offset by entitlement effects and development project volumes.

Turning now to the sequential comparison starting on slide 11. Upstream earnings decreased about $500 million from the third quarter. Lower realizations reduced earnings $840 million where crude prices were about $8 per barrel lower than the third quarter. And natural gas prices were down $0.40 per 1,000 cubic feet.

Volume and mix effects increased earnings $250 million reflecting new project and work program growth along with higher seasonal demand. All other items added $90 million driven by tax impacts. Upstream unit profitability for the fourth quarter was $2.26 per barrel excluding the impact of non-controlling interest of volumes.

Moving to slide 12. Sequentially volumes increased 330,000 oil equivalent barrels per day or 8.4%. Liquid production was up 150,000 barrels per day, reflecting new project growth, work programs and entitlement effects. Natural gas production was 1.1 billion cubic feet per day higher than the third quarter, driven by stronger seasonal demand in Europe, entitlement effects and new project startups.

Moving now to the downstream financial operating results starting on slide 13. Downstream earnings for the quarter were $1.4 billion, up $854 million compared to the year-ago quarter. Stronger margins and favorable volumes mix improved earnings by $610 million and $70 million respectively. All other items increased earnings $170 million primarily driven by reduced maintenance activities and favorable foreign exchange and tax effects, partly offset by unfavorable inventory impacts.

Turning to slide 14. Sequentially downstream earnings decreased $682 million as lower margins reduced earnings by $860 million, volume and mix effects increased earnings by $60 million reflecting lower US maintenance. Other items improved earnings by $120 million, primarily due to higher gains from asset sales, partially offset by unfavorable inventory effects.

Moving now to the chemical financial operating results starting on slide 15. Fourth quarter chemical earnings were $963 million, down $264 million compared to the fourth quarter of 2014. Weaker margins decreased earnings by $210 million while favorable volumes and mix effects added $170 million due to lower maintenance. All other items decreased earnings by $230 million, largely due to unfavorable foreign exchange, inventory and tax effects.

Moving to slide 16, chemical earnings were down $264 million sequentially. Weaker margins reduced earnings by $190 million while favorable volumes mix added $80 million. Other items decreased earnings $160 million, primarily reflecting increased maintenance activities.

Turning now to the full-year financial results starting on slide 17. As I mentioned, earnings were $16.2 billion or $3.85 per share. Corporation distributed over $15 billion to shareholders through dividends and share purchases to reduce shares outstanding and of that total $3 billion was used to purchase shares.

CapEx total of about $31 billion for the year, a reduction of almost $7.5 billion or 19% versus 2014 and approximately $3 billion below our plans for 2015. Cash flow from operations and asset sales was $32.7 billion.

Turning to slide 18. Cash decreased from $4.7 to $3.7 billion during the year. Earnings, adjusted for depreciation expense, changes in working capital and other items and our ongoing asset management program resulted in $32.7 billion of cash flow from operations and asset sales. Uses included net investments of $26.2 billion and shareholder distributions of $15 billion. Debt and other financing items provided $7.6 billion in the year.

Moving to slide 19, graphic illustrates the corporation's sources and uses of cash during the year and highlights our ability to meet our financial objectives. Cash flow from operations and asset sales of $32.7 billion funded shareholder distributions and most of our net investments in the business, supplemented by an increase in debt financing.

The investments we select have attractive financial returns and justify the moderate use of our strong balance sheet capacity. The scale, an integrated nature of our cash flows, along with our financial strength provide us the flexibility and confidence to invest through the commodity price cycle to meet long-term energy demand.

Corporation has continued to pay a reliable and growing dividend, directly sharing the corporation's success with our shareholders. Total dividends per share of $2.88 are up 6.7% versus 2014.

As you know, we prudently tapered the share buyback program during 2015 consistent with changes in the business environment and the corporation's cash requirements. In the first quarter of 2016 ExxonMobil will limit share purchases to amounts needed to offset dilution related to our benefit plans and programs, and we do not plan on making additional purchases to reduce shares outstanding.

During 2015 ExxonMobil generated $6.5 billion of free cash flow, reflecting our cost and capital discipline and the resilience of our integrated business model. Looking forward, we anticipate capital and expiration expenditures to be $23.2 billion in 2016, a decrease of almost $8 billion or 25% from 2015.

So to summarize this slide, the corporation finished the year with positive free cash flow. We have significantly lowered our capital spending plans and are aggressively pursuing operation efficiencies and cost savings as we continue to ramp up production from our major projects, all of which will support cash flow moving forward. We will provide further details on investment plans at our upcoming analyst meeting.

Moving now to slide 20 and a review of our full-year segmented results, 2015 earnings decreased $16.4 billion as weaker upstream results were partially offset by stronger downstream performance and lower corporate costs. Turning now to the full-year comparison of upstream results starting on slide 21.

Upstream earnings of $7.1 billion were $20.4 billion lower than 2014. Realizations reduced earnings by $18.8 billion as crude oil prices declined more than $45 per barrel and natural gas dropped about $2.50 per 1,000 cubic feet.

Favorable volume mix effects increased earnings $810 million for contributions, for major project startups over the last couple of years as well as our work program activities were partially offset by the impact of regulatory restrictions in the Netherlands and field decline.

All other items decreased earnings by $2.4 billion. Lower gains on asset sales, an absence of prior-year deferred income tax effects were partly offset by lower operating expenses. Upstream unit profitability for the year was $4.89 per barrel, excluding the impact of non-controlling interest volumes. This reflects significantly lower commodity prices, partially offset by asset high grating, including the startup of new development projects.

Moving to slide 22. As indicated, volumes ended the year at 4.1 million oil equivalent barrels per day up 3.2% compared to last year. Liquids production was up 234,000 barrels per day or 11%, benefiting from major projects in several countries, work programs and entitlement impacts which were partly offset by failed decline. Natural gas production, however, was down 630 million cubic feet per day as regulatory restrictions in the Netherlands and field decline were partly offset by additional major project volumes in Papua New Guinea and the US, along with higher entitlements.

Full-year comparison for downstream results is shown on slide 23, earnings were $6.6 billion, an increase of $3.5 billion from 2014. Stronger refining and marketing margins increased earnings by $4.1 billion.

Volume and mix effects mainly driven by increased maintenance reduced earnings by $200 million. All other items decreased earnings by $420 million, reflecting higher maintenance activities and unfavorable inventory impacts, partly offset by favorable foreign exchange effects.

On slide 24 we show the full-year comparison for chemical results. 2015 earnings were $4.4 billion, up $103 million from 2014.

Stronger margins increased earnings $590 million while favorable volumes mixed added $220 million due to lower maintenance. Other items reduced earnings $710 million, reflecting unfavorable foreign exchange, tax and inventory effects, partly offset by asset management gains.

Moving next to an update on our upstream project activities. We continue to deliver on our investment plans which are adding higher value production capacity to meet long-term demand growth.

Mixed major project startups in 2015 added nearly 300,000 oil equivalent barrels per day at working interest capacity. We also progressed development of our high-quality acreage in the Permian and Balkan at a measured pace where drilling programs added 85,000 oil equivalent barrels per day of gross production in 2015.

In the fourth quarter the Bania Europe central processing facility successfully started up. Current gross production is 150,000 barrels per day and continues to ramp up towards full capacity as we optimize both well and facility performance.

Looking forward, construction activities continue to progress on 10 major projects that will come online over the next two years. We expect to start up six of those in 2016 which will add more than 250,000 barrels per day of working interest production capacity.

Moving now to slide 26, we continue to execute a paced and focused exploration program to deliver accretive value to ExxonMobil's asset portfolio while capturing cost efficiencies in today's softer market. In offshore Guyana, the largest 3-D seismic survey in the Company's history is nearly complete, and we will begin appraising the lease of discovery during the first quarter. We also acquired a 35% interest in operatorship of the Kanjay block which is adjacent to the star broke block adding over 520,000 net acres.

In the Romanian Black Sea, ExxonMobil has completed exploration activities in the Neptune block after successfully drilling seven consecutive wells since July 2014. Based on the results of the program, including a successful well test of the domino prospect, we are advancing detailed development planning and economic viability studies.

And in Argentina, we are beginning a production pilot program on the La Invernada and Bajo del Choique blocks in the Neuquen province. The program consists of five wells along with construction of production facilities and a gas pipeline.

Over the past few months we have also added high potential acreage to our diverse portfolio. ExxonMobil acquired a 35% interest in block 14 offshore Uruguay capturing almost 580,000 net acres.

In Canada, we were awarded interest three blocks: Offshore Newfoundland and Labrador, adding over 650,000 net acres. These blocks are in a proven oil-prone hydrocarbon basin with recent industry discoveries. And this new opportunity will build on our 18 years of success in Eastern Canada with Hibernia, Terra Nova, and the ongoing development at Hebron. And in western Canada we acquired additional working interest and are currently producing Duvernay acreage, adding 10,000 net acres.

So I would now like to conclude today's comments with a summary of our 2015 performance which demonstrates the resilience of our integrated business. ExxonMobil earned $16.2 billion underpinned by the benefits of our integrated business model which captures value through the cycle, as demonstrated by our strong downstream and chemical results.

Corporation achieved its full-year plan to produce 4.1 million oil equivalent barrels per day, buying contributions from a portfolio of new developments underscore our project execution excellence and reputation as a reliable operator.

Our results also reflect a relentless focus to reduce costs. In 2015 we achieved about $11.5 billion in capital and cash operating cost reductions. Solid operating performance combined with continued investment and cost discipline generated cash flow from operations and asset sales of $32.7 billion and positive free cash flow of $6.5 billion.

Our commitment to shareholders remains strong as demonstrated by our reliable and growing dividend. So regardless of industry conditions, we remain focused on what we can control and are driven to create shareholder value through the cycle.

And we will discuss our forward plans in more detail at our upcoming analyst meeting which will take place at the New York Stock Exchange on Wednesday, March 2nd with a live webcast beginning at 9.00 AM Eastern time.

That includes my prepare remarks, and I would now be happy to take your questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: Thank you, Mr. Woodbury. The question and answer session will be conducted electronically. We go first to Doug Leggate with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.

DOUG LEGGATE, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Thanks. Good morning, Jeff, good morning, everybody.

JEFF WOODBURY: Good morning, Doug.

DOUG LEGGATE: Jeff, the CapEx cut is pretty material, I wonder if you could help us reconcile Exxon's view of spending through the cycle with the extent of the cut, and maybe give some idea just clarify two things, where -- is this really a function of the slowdown in EMP spending that was already underway, and does still include the minority or affiliate contribution? And I've got a follow-up, please.

JEFF WOODBURY: Yes. Doug, first let me start with your second question first. The CapEx guidance that we provided for 2016 of $23.2 billion is all in. It includes consolidated and equity companies and it compares directly with the $31.1 billion that we spent in 2015.

To answer your first question, I'd first like to say that as I said in my prepared comments, we were down in the year in 2015 both from 2014 performance as well as our planned guidance in 2015, and that was primarily a continued focus on capital efficiencies, market savings in a soft business climate.

There was reduced activity, and then importantly, timely project delivery. If you think about 2016, it's more of the same. It reflects prudent cash management and our continued investment through the cycle in attractive, high-quality opportunities that we believe will generate long-term shareholder value.

The short of it is that we're going to continue to live within our means, we're going to maintain financial flexibility and we've got -- if you heard us talk in the past, we've got a very diverse, high-quality inventory investment opportunities that we'll continue to progress.

DOUG LEGGATE: Thanks, Jeff. Sorry. That was one question with a couple parts. So my followup is I realize you've been fairly tight with Guyana to date, obviously this is a big acreage add you've had and there's -- my understanding is Fugro has already started the subsea survey which suggests there's an early production system scheme underway.

Can you just give us a general update as to where things stand in Guyana, whether there is indeed an early production system target and how you see the overall scale of the opportunity to the extent you can chat about that at this point? Thanks.

JEFF WOODBURY: Thanks, Doug. I clearly understand the industry interest in the discovery. As we said at the time of discovery, we are very encouraged with the initial results, recognizing that we only have one well in a very, very large block, over 6 1/2 million acres.

We have since the discovery moved quickly to get a drill ship contracted and on site to appraise the discovery and we expect that to spud very shortly. As I said, the seismic acquisition is nearing completion, the results from both the well as well as the seismic are being actively assessed to assess the full block potential as well as the commercial viability of the lease of discovery.

Obviously the objective of the first well is an appraisal well in leasehood, and it's intended to give us important information to size the resource as well as get a test on it to assess the key variables associated with the commercial viability. So I would tell you that there are early studies underway on potential development options for the field, but I don't have anything more to share on that.

DOUG LEGGATE: Thanks a lot, Jeff.

JEFF WOODBURY: You're welcome.

OPERATOR: We'll go next to Sam Margolin with Cowen and Company.

SAM MARGOLIN, ANALYST, COWEN AND COMPANY: Good morning.

JEFF WOODBURY: Good morning, Sam.

SAM MARGOLIN: In the press release you called out some of the project startups and what seemed like a net overall favorable mix effect on income. I think that maybe Western Canada is included in the startups, but not maybe a contributor to mixed income enhancements.

Can you talk about Western Canada, the heavy levels of pressure we're seeing on heavy oil out there and maybe frame an outlook for us?

JEFF WOODBURY: Yes, sure. I mean, no doubt profitability is compressed in this price environment. As I have said before, we remain very focused on the fundamentals, and I tell you that the team there in Canada have done just an exceptional job in driving the cost structure down and enhancing reliability.

We are not by any means where we want to be. In fact, I would tell you that we're never satisfied with the status quo. We will continue to work that, recognizing that we feel very good about the resource potential, not only in Curl, but in Western Canada and in our portfolio.

We think that over the long-term the asset's going to be high value that focuses around maintaining cash profit and maximizing long-term value in the asset.

SAM MARGOLIN: Thank you. And then on the other end of the same spectrum I guess is L&G, which is considered by many investors to be cost prohibitive but actually has a pretty low overhead once it's operating. Can you help us understand how that contributed this quarter and through the year, specifically with P&G and some of the positive income contributions there?

JEFF WOODBURY: Sure. I mean, Sam, it's a great question because L&G is clearly a key component of our portfolio, and it is an important part of our margin generation.

Remember, we're constructive on long-term demand for gas, as you just saw the recent update on our energy outlook, we got gas growing at about 1.6% per year, L&G is anticipated to triple between now and 2040. So we're very well poised to participate in that demand growth over the long-term.

I will tell you that for, let's use P&G as a really good example, the initial design basis of P&G was about 6.9 million tons per annum. As we said in the third quarter, the organization did an exceptional job in doing what we do very well and that is get more out of the asset and we were able to get it up to in excess of 7.4 million tons per annum, which has been just a phenomenal result.

An we're still going. So it's a good example of how we really continue to manage the existing assets to reduce the cost structure, improve operational reliability to maximize long-term asset value.

SAM MARGOLIN: Very helpful. Thank you so much.

JEFF WOODBURY: You bet, sir.

OPERATOR: We'll go next to Phil Gresh with JPmorgan.

PHIL GRESH, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Hello, Jeff, good morning.

JEFF WOODBURY: Good morning, Phil.

PHIL GRESH: First question is this kind of bigger picture macro question. Obviously pricing has been tough across all end markets, oil, natural gas, L&G.

I'm just curious if you see a fundamental supply/demand improvement happening in any one particular market versus another over the next year or two? So, for example, do you see oil recovering faster than natural gas or anything else along those lines?

JEFF WOODBURY: Yes. So I guess I'd say that we're price takers and we manage the business to create margin through self help.

Whatever -- we have built this business to ensure that it is durable in a low-price environment and then any upserve from that is additional return on the investment. So the organization is very focused on really managing the fundamentals. As I indicated, for both gas and oil, we're constructive on long-term demand growth, and it is the fundamental basis for the investment decisions that we put in place.

And if you look -- if you look near term, demand's been growing about 1 million barrels per day, per year, and although supply has been growing at a higher rate, we certainly have -- I mean, the first half of this year, we're about 1 1/2 million barrels a day in excess of demand.

We expect that to converge in the second half as seasonal demand increases. We've got to come in balance like we have seen historically. We do have a bit of a buildup in crude storage that will have to be worked off before you see real growth in prices.

But ultimately we're going to manage wherever we are in the price cycle to create margin by focusing on the fundamentals. Same story around L&G. As I said previously, that we're very constructive on where L&G demand's go from now to 2040.

PHIL GRESH: Okay. Understood. The second question is just on the capital spending guidance. Thanks for giving us the preview ahead of the analyst day. What I was wondering is year over year, how much of that you might attribute to project rolloff or deflationary benefits versus a reduction in activity? And just in general you came in under the 2015 budget, as you said, how much flexibility is there, do you think, relative to the guidance number versus that being the lowest you could go?

JEFF WOODBURY: Phil, I don't have specific numbers to quote with you. And as I said, we'll talk more about our investment plans and our thoughts on volumes next month in the analyst meeting.

But a couple things to share with you. Clearly, our peak was back in 2013 at about $42.5 billion. The drop from 2013 to 2014 was primarily a result of dropoff on this very significant major project load that we decided to take on.

Obviously in every year we are working on capital efficiency opportunities to build into our spend pattern. As we go forward, I would tell you right now most of the drop is associated with the prudent cash management that we've got. It's not indicative of the quality of the portfolio, as I've said previously, our portfolio is very deep and diverse across the upstream, downstream and chemical business. Some of the activity that we've slowed down really provides us an opportunity to rethink near-term investments and really fully capture the market benefits going forward.

But, short of that, I really don't have any more specifics to share as to breaking the CapEx spend down further. We'll continue to live within our means, as we've shown historically, and, if we need be, we'll have to tighten up if we have to further.

PHIL GRESH: So you see some additional flexibility even relative to this guidance?

JEFF WOODBURY: We've got flexibility both ways.

PHIL GRESH: Okay. Thanks.

OPERATOR: We'll go next to Evan Calio with Morgan Stanley.

EVAN CALIO, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Hello, good day. Good morning, Jeff.

JEFF WOODBURY: Good morning, Evan.

EVAN CALIO: Exxon is relatively unique in its ability and dedication to counter cyclically spend. Can you discuss the decision to cut the buyback in that context, and is that reduction any reflection on relative attractiveness in the portfolio, value of the stock, or a weaker macro outlook?

JEFF WOODBURY: I mean, we've got a very -- as I said, a very deep and diverse portfolio. Much of that investment could be moved forward in today's environment, but as I indicated, we have a real opportunity to go ahead and rethink some of those expenditure patterns and capture more value from those investments, so the decision to cut the buyback doesn't at all reflect the quality of the inventory.

Quite the contrary. I mean, the inventory is very robust. The decision on the buyback, as we've said before, our capital allocation approach is really focused on the dual priority of funding attractive investments and continuing to provide a reliable and growing dividend. And the share buybacks have always been the flexible part of our capital allocation program. As we continued to progress in a very challenging business climate, you saw us prudently taper back the buyback program.

We will continue to evaluate the buyback program on a quarterly basis, depending on, changes in the business, as well as the investment climate and advise on a quarterly basis when we think it's -- when it's appropriate.

EVAN CALIO: Great. Maybe if I can shift gears into in the US. You're currently running, I think, seven rigs in the Bakken and eight rigs in the Permian. Particularly in the Bakken, what's the driver of continued activity at current prices?

Are those economic wells, or are you preserving efficiencies for an ultimate re-acceleration? Maybe the same question for the Permian, yet that might be HPV driven. Any color would be helpful.

JEFF WOODBURY: Yes, Evan, it's a good question because we have a very extensive well inventory in our unconventional business, particularly in the liquids place, the Permian, Bakken and the Woodford Ardmore. Once again, it's a conscious decision to be measured in our investment program. When we saw the big rampup in rigs, back in 2014, 2015, we were very measured in how we ramped up because we wanted to ensure that we fully developed the learning curve and captured those real cost benefits that translate into higher value, as we fully developed these fields, so the investments that we're making right now are economic, they're attractive in this business climate.

We are maintaining a certain base-load of activity where we can continue to leverage some of the best service providers that we've got. We're one of the few that can continue to invest in the down cycle. We've high-graded all the services that we get in our unconventional business.

In fact, I'd extend that globally. And we are continuing on those learning curves, and I think it just better positions us to maximize the value from these assets.

EVAN CALIO: Great. Appreciate it. Thanks.

OPERATOR: We'll go next to Doug Terreson with Evercore ISI.

DOUG TERRISON, ANALYST, EVERCORE ISI: Good morning, Jeff.

JEFF WOODBURY: Good morning, Doug.

DOUG TERRISON: So, on slides 25 and 26 you talked about the project portfolio and the growth trajectory longer term. Simultaneously, though, when you consider that the growth has come at the expense of returns during the past cycle, not just for Exxon, but for the other super majors too, it makes me wonder whether there should be more emphasis towards value creation, especially when considering that the valuation for some of the big oil companies is pretty much at its lowest level of the past two decades, and in some cases three decades.

So my question is whether or not the issues of structure and returns and growth are being revisited internally, more so than in the past, or is that what is implied in the new spending outlook that you talked about today? And then also, whether or not returns on capital, which I didn't see mentioned in the presentation, is still as relevant as it used to be. So two questions.

JEFF WOODBURY: Yes. Doug, on the first one, your point about value creation in our investment program, we couldn't agree with you more, and I would tell that it is never -- our view has never changed on the importance of making the right value choices. We saw back in the -- I'd say in the early 2000s to the mid-2010 time frame, we saw a number of major upstream projects that got to the point of maturity that we could make an investment decision and capture unique value by progressing such a large load of major upstream investments.

There were cost synergies that we were going to capture that ultimately was going to improve the long-term return of those assets, so we knew that by taking on such a large load it was going to impact a return on capital employed, because we would build up a very large load of nonproductive capital employed. But we also knew that when those projects came on stream that they were going to be accretive to our overall average financial performance.

So unfortunately, as these projects are coming on, the price environment has changed for us. But nonetheless, we still feel very good about the long-term financial performance of these assets. Because remember, when we make the final investment decision, we're testing those investments across a wide range of economic parameters, including price.

And as I said earlier, our fundamental focus has been making sure that our Business is viable and durable in a low-price environment. So ultimately we believe that these 30-plus major upstream projects that had an impact, rightfully so, had an impact on our return on capital employed --

DOUG TERRISON: Right.

JEFF WOODBURY: -- are going to be accretive to our financial performance over the long term and we believe it was the right decision. Now, to your second question, a return on capital employed, it is still very much relevant to us.

DOUG TERRISON: Okay.

JEFF WOODBURY: We believe it is a fundamental measure that differentiates us, and that's why we continue to talk about it. We have never lost sight of the importance of that metric relative to the investment decisions that we're making.

DOUG TERRISON: Okay. Great. Maybe there'll be a return and valuation and catch-up in a more normalized environment in the future then.

JEFF WOODBURY: That's correct.

DOUG TERRISON: Okay. Thanks a lot.

JEFF WOODBURY: Thank you, Doug.

DOUG TERRISON: Yes.

OPERATOR: We'll go next to Ed Westlake with Credit Suisse.

ED WESTLAKE, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Good morning. Congratulations on, obviously, $11.5 billion of capital and OpEx savings. OpEx you haven't really spoken about as much this morning. Just maybe run through some of the actions you took to reduce OpEx over the course of last year and then the potential to cut OpEx further.

JEFF WOODBURY: Yes. Thanks for that, Ed, because it is a very important story of our 2015 performance. First let me just make sure everybody understands the number that we've been talking about. The numbers are fully consistent with our external reporting so that you all have good line of sight. Of the $11.5 billion I mentioned, about $8.5 billion of that is operating expenses. It then includes a number of things, positive and negative.

For instance, it includes the structural efficiencies that we were able to capture. It includes the market savings that we've been able to capture. Remember I've talked in the past about having a unique organization or global determined organization that is really focused on achieving the lowest like cycle cost.

The number includes benefits in energy costs, includes benefits from our asset management program, as well as 4X. There are increases in that number. Obviously we've been talking about all these new projects coming on stream. Well, with them comes an increase in operating costs. We'll continue to manage those assets like we do with our mature inventory. There was also a higher downstream load on unplanned maintenance that added costs during the year.

So simply put, the $8.5 billion is a year-on-year comparison. The rest, $3 billion is in CapEx and includes a lot of the same actions I just talked about, as well as decisions to slow down some activity to capture opportunities in this business climate. I will note that that $3 billion only reflects the reduction from our planned guidance.

As I said in the prepared comments, our year-on-year reduction in CapEx was $7.5 billion, so we didn't really include the $4.5 billion in the $11.5 billion that I talked about in the prepared comments. So in total year on year, our total reduction is really $16 billion, if you include the $4.5 billion.

ED WESTLAKE: Yes. And then in terms of the ability to drive further OpEx, another 10%, another 15%. How low do you think you can get that OpEx savings?

JEFF WOODBURY: That's a great question, Ed. It really is because it really talks to the strength of the organization. In this low-price environment, it presents opportunities too, and the organization is never satisfied with status quo.

The organization is very focused on leading that cost curve, and while we may have some internal stewardship objectives, rest assured, we continue to look for new unique ways to capture structural improvements which are most important.

If you remember, those are the ones that are going to be permanent going forward. So there's a lot more to work on, but I don't have any specific numbers at this point.

ED WESTLAKE: Okay. I look forward to the analyst day. Thank you.

JEFF WOODBURY: Okay.

OPERATOR: We'll go next to Ryan Todd with Deutsche bank.

RYAN TODD, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Thanks. Good morning, Jeff. Maybe if I could follow up on a comment that you made a couple of times now. You talked about how you are rethinking near-term investments and the way you deploy capital.

I mean, how much does this refer to an evolution of your views on relative attractiveness amongst the various components of the portfolio, in terms of is there a -- does this represent at all a shift in attractiveness of on-shore versus deep water versus oil sand drilling, or L&G, et cetera? Or how much is just referring to rethinking the cost structure in the near-term environment in an effort to continue to push down prices?

JEFF WOODBURY: It's really both. It's every investment dollar is competing. So, it's all about how did we get the most value out of those investment dollars that are being deployed throughout the business?

The organization, as I indicated, really views the down cycle as a real opportunity to go back and retest development concepts, retest the cost structures, retest the commercial terms, and whether it's short cycle or long cycle, we're going to maintain that competitive focus and make the right value choices coupled with our prudent cash management.

RYAN TODD: Great. Thanks.

And then maybe just as a followup on that, during the most recent downturn in 2008, 2009, you took advantage of the environment by pushing through more counter cyclical investment in places like the Canadian oil sands, and we all realize that this downturn is different. But do you see similar opportunities to leverage your strength in this environment, either on the cost and project development side, or maybe even on the research acquisition side?

Or is your outlook different enough at this point that you -- that you feel that more prudence is necessary in the short to medium term?

JEFF WOODBURY: Well, I mean, clearly, I mean given the uncertainty in prices, we're going to maintain prudency. But at the same time, as I said a couple times, Ryan, we really do see that this is an opportunity to capture further value in the bottomless cycle.

And across all the areas I've already mentioned, but there are plenty of opportunities that the organization is focused on to really make that value proposition. And I'd also add that because of our ability to invest through this cycle, our service providers understand that if they can provide lower cost, higher value solutions to us, then we'll continue to invest, if it makes good business sense.

So, having the -- not only the organization focused on it, but also our service providers focused on it has provided some unique opportunities for us.

RYAN TODD: Great. Thanks, Jeff.

JEFF WOODBURY: Thank you.

OPERATOR: And we'll go next to Paul Sankey with Wolfe Research.

PAUL SANKEY, ANALYST, WOLFE RESEARCH: Good morning, Jeff.

JEFF WOODBURY: Good morning, maul.

PAUL SANKEY: Jeff, I'm looking forward to seeing you all at the analyst meeting. I know that Mr. Tillerson has been in New York a couple of times -- I should say in New York and in Miami making some statements.

I haven't personally spoken to him since last March. The general message that he had then was certainly that we would be lower for longer. I assume he's still making that argument. I think that he was saying that you would be typically keen to make acquisitions at the bottom of the cycle, but the bid-ask spreads are too wide. He was saying less interest in buying a balance sheet that was bad, he would prefer to buy a balance sheet that was good.

And I think you've said that the consolidation in the Permian would be an area of interest. Is that the latest message that we've got, for example, at the Miami conference? I'm sorry, I wasn't present. I was wondering if the message has changed? Thanks.

JEFF WOODBURY: Well, I mean from a supply/demand perspective, I shared some of our thoughts around expectations. Clearly the oversupply currently and the overhang from storage is going to have a dampening affect on prices in the near term.

But, Paul, as we've talked in the past, we continue to be focused on the fundamentals and through our self help, creating margin, and that's what's most important for this Business. We invest to ensure that the Business is durable at low prices, we continue to manage the Business based on or focus on the fundamentals to create margin.

From an acquisition perspective, clearly, I'm sure there's a tremendous amount of interest. We remain very patient. We keep alert to the value propositions. But as I've said before, anything that we see out there has got to be competitive with our current investment inventory.

PAUL SANKEY: Sure. I mean, the bid-ask spread element, by just looking at the share price charts that has to be narrowing now between what you would see as value and what sellers would.

JEFF WOODBURY: Yes. Well, clearly bid-ask to be a faction of a number of factors, including the business climate, unique capabilities and assessments of individual investors and certainly the longer the commodity prices are in this area code, the more pressure it'll put on the bid-ask. But I think also, Paul, as you're probably well aware, I mean, the absence of any major deals, absent a few couple one-offs really talks that there's still a gap to valuations.

We'll be thoughtful. We'll make sure that anything that looks of interest is going to be value adding.

PAUL SANKEY: Indeed. And then a bit of a technical question. Does Mr. Tillerson retire on his 65th birthday or at the beginning of 2017, typically? What would be the model? What I'm driving at, is this going to be his last analyst meeting?

JEFF WOODBURY: Well, I mean, I'm not going to provide any specifics. That's really at the function of the board's decision.

PAUL SANKEY: Right. Okay. Thank you.

JEFF WOODBURY: All right. Thank you, Paul.

OPERATOR: And we'll go next to Roger Read with Wells Fargo.

ROGER READ, ANALYST, WELLS FARGO SECURITIES, LLC: Thanks, good morning, Jeff.

JEFF WOODBURY: Good morning, Roger.

ROGER READ: I'd like to follow up a little more on your lower 48. You talked earlier about the rig count and trying to maintain spending within a reasonable level of returns, but balancing that against the -- maintaining the right amount of service sector capability and all.

But as you look at lower 48 volume growth, which was certainly reasonable in the past year, does it grow in 2016 at these levels? And I know you wouldn't necessarily start with the idea of growth, but just does it grow at these levels?

JEFF WOODBURY: Yes. Well, I don't have any specifics to share with you right now, but I would tell you to think about -- think about this, is that the choices that we are making are all based on value propositions. The outcome of those will be volumes, and as I indicated earlier, Roger, we've got a very deep portfolio of investment opportunities in the lower 48, particularly in the unconventional business. And, we'll maintain an appropriate balance of short cycle investments, and when we feel like that the business climate supports it, we'll probably increase the amount of activity. I think what's important to note is that we are very well poised to flex the program up or down, depending on the business climate.

ROGER READ: Appreciate that. The other question I had was on the share repo program, understand taking it off the table for now. If you were to get a surprise influx of cash flow, just say higher commodity prices, is the decision in the near term that it would likely go towards shareholder returns, or that CapEx would go up?

And I know Exxon is not a quick trigger place like some other businesses, but you do have opportunities, as you said, in the lower 48. What's the internal thinking on that front?

JEFF WOODBURY: Well, I mean, if it was an influx of cash flow, I would tell you that it's going to be a function of the board's decision on a quarterly basis. If we see supply and demand continuing to balance out, that may be a signal for us to modify our investment plans going forward. But, as I've indicated previously, Roger, the board makes the decision on a quarterly basis on what level of buybacks we want to maintain and consider a whole range of factors, including the business climate in making that decision.

ROGER READ: All right. So Powerball lottery by itself doesn't do it, you have to have some other fundamental things helping you out? Thank you.

JEFF WOODBURY: Thank you, Roger.

OPERATOR: We'll go next to Neil Mehta with Goldman Sachs.

NEIL MEHTA, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Good morning, Jeff.

JEFF WOODBURY: Good morning, Neil.

NEIL MEHTA: Jeff, you've had a great year here of production. This is something where I'm sure we'll get more clarity in March, but can you just talk about it, $23 billion, how you think about the level of production relative to the $4.2 million barrels a day that you outlined last year for 2016? And then broadly speaking, which regions where you would see potential changes?

JEFF WOODBURY: Yes. Well, Neil, let me first just take an opportunity to acknowledge, a very strong operational year in 2015, achievement of $4.1 million oil equivalent barrels per day. Which, I just want to emphasize for the group, it's really an outcome of our value choices that we've made. The organization has really delivered on the timely startup of our major projects, which are a very key and significant contribution to our volumes this year.

I'll say looking forward as I alluded to in the prepared comments, we have 10 more large-scale, long-life projects starting up over the next couple of years. The first -- the next tranche of that will be six of the 10 starting up in 2016.

We maintain a very strong focus on the high-value work program, as well as operational reliability. Looking forward we will be sharing more on our near-term investment plans and some thoughts on our volumes in the upcoming analyst meeting, but I really don't have any more specifics to share with you at this point.

NEIL MEHTA: I appreciate that, Jeff. And then, obviously, one of Exxon's key advantages here is your balance sheet. In light of some of the comments from the ratings agencies, can you just talk about your commitment to your AAA rating here, and then any perspective that you can provide around how that could change as rating agencies think about their market outlook?

JEFF WOODBURY: Yes. That's a good question, Neil. Clearly it's topical for many in the energy sector. First and foremost let me just be clear, we get value from the AAA credit rating in our Business, whether it be access to financial markets or access to resources. There is a benefit that we get from it, and we see it as being important.

But it is really an outcome of our long-standing effective management of the Business, including things like our strong balance sheet. The way we have prudently managed our cash, our disciplined investment and our leading financial and operating results, all of which has allowed us the financial flexibility to invest through the cycle as we've been discussing.

I tell you that the current environment is clearly tough, but we've managed the business to be durable on the low end of commodity prices. We're very well positioned to continue the same level of superior performance in the future, and we think that all underpins the strong credit rating that we have.

NEIL MEHTA: Thanks, Jeff.

JEFF WOODBURY: You're welcome.

OPERATOR: And we go next to Paul Cheng with Barclays.

PAUL CHENG, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Good morning.

JEFF WOODBURY: Good morning, Paul.

PAUL CHENG: Two really quick questions, the $23.2 billion, how much is related to the sell off in equity of Finlay? And also that within that number how much is for the major project spending?

JEFF WOODBURY: You're talking about our 2016 --

PAUL CHENG: Yes, sir.

JEFF WOODBURY: CapEx guidance?

PAUL CHENG: Yes.

JEFF WOODBURY: Paul, we'll provide you more information on our spending plans in the analyst meeting. I really don't have anything more to share at this point

PAUL CHENG: I see. Okay.

The second one then, real quick, looks like you have $800 million on the asset sales proceeds. What is the asset sales gain in the quarter? And also do you have seems like that you may have some tax adjustment benefit in the quarter, and that you have also mentioned I think some FX impact and also inventory impact. Can you quantify those items in the quarter? And if possible by segment also.

JEFF WOODBURY: Yes. So, Paul, on the proceeds from asset sales, which was about $800 million in the fourth quarter, the equivalent earnings impact is about $350 million, primarily in the downstream. Could you talk a little bit more about the second question, just to make sure I --

PAUL CHENG: It looked like that -- I mean, the effective tax rate is 13% in the quarter. We understand the mix off the earnings, oftentimes the impact absolute level of the tax. But it does look like it's low enough that you may have some tax benefit or adjustment on that.

Just curious if that's the case and if it is, can you quantify it, what is the tax adjustment benefit? And also which segment is being impacted? And also I think in your prepared remarks you have a comment that some impact on the earnings from the FX and also inventory, so just want to see if you could quantify those?

JEFF WOODBURY: Sure. Let me walk through them for you. On 4X, the quarter-on-quarter impact is essentially nil. I mean, it's a slight negative to earnings less than $5 million.

PAUL CHENG: How about sequentially?

JEFF WOODBURY: I'm sorry. Say that again.

PAUL CHENG: Sequentially you're talking about, right?

JEFF WOODBURY: That was quarter-on-quarter, fourth-quarter 2015 to fourth-quarter 2015. The full year had a negative impact on our earnings about $125 million, that's 4X, okay?

On tax, so, yes, our effective tax rate was 13% in the fourth quarter, and that was down about 19% quarter on quarter. A fair bit of that had to do with one-time tax items, the rest, about 5% was due to portfolio mix of income across the business segments and the geographies and that's really spread from across our corporate and finance, as well as some of the segments.

PAUL CHENG: Jeff, when you say that one-time tax item, since then you're talking 14% because you say 19% overall reduction, 5% is due to the mix of the asset, so the one-time item is 14%. Is that 14% spread across a different segment, or is it primarily in upstream?

JEFF WOODBURY: It's in corporate and finance and several of the other segments. I don't have a breakdown for you.

PAUL CHENG: Okay. And how about inventory impact?

JEFF WOODBURY: Yes, before I leave tax, I just want to be clear for everybody that, assuming our current commodity prices and our existing portfolio mix, we still would anticipate that the effective tax rate is between 35% to 40%. If you look at the full-year tax in 2015 it was just under 34%, and that included, obviously, some one-time tax effects.

Okay? On inventory, Paul, quarter-on-quarter it had a negative earnings impact of about $375 million.

PAUL CHENG: Thank you.

JEFF WOODBURY: Okay. You're welcome, Paul.

OPERATOR: We'll go next to Anish Kapadia with TPH.

JEFF WOODBURY: Good morning, Anish.

ANISH KAPADIA, ANALYST, TUDOR, PICKER, HOLT & COMPANY: Good morning. I just had a question looking at production and declines. If we look at 2015, it seems like underlying production was flat, so we saw new projects that were offset by production declines.

I wanted to try and understand, in terms of 2016, how much of your CapEx is going into the base business to mitigate the declines? And so, what do you see the underlying decline rates to be for the current spend? Thank you.

JEFF WOODBURY: Anish, we have an underlying decline, as we include in our 10-K, of about 3%. On top of that we had major project activity. Again, I don't break it out by use, and we'll talk more about investment plans in the analyst meeting next month.

ANISH KAPADIA: Just to clarify, given the CapEx cuts that we've seen, you wouldn't expect that decline rate to accelerate on the back of the CapEx cuts? No. Remember -- Thank you.

JEFF WOODBURY: It's a base decline rate, ex major project activity.

ANISH KAPADIA: Okay. Second question was on plans for a space of a new major projects. Given that cutback in the CapEx, do you have any potential FIDs for this year that you're looking to sanction?

JEFF WOODBURY: Yes. On FIDs, we just don't forecast FIDs in advance of the investment decision made by the corporation. When we make that decision, when the investments get to a level of maturity and we make that decision, then we communicate.

Excuse me. I'll remind you that we have 10 major projects that will start up in the next two years, as I indicated before. And they will certainly -- and they will certainly contribute to our base performance.

ANISH KAPADIA: I just wanted to clarify, I think I might have miss it from earlier, I think there was a question on the impacts of production from the cutback in your rigs. What would you expect your exit-to-exit US onshore production to be this year?

JEFF WOODBURY: Well, as I indicated, we'll share more about our investment plans, as well as our thoughts on volumes in next month's analyst meeting. We've got a very deep, robust inventory of development projects in the upstream, and we'll talk more about that next month, or, I guess -- yes, next month.

ANISH KAPADIA: Sure. Okay. Thanks very much.

OPERATOR: We'll go next to Jason Gammel with Jefferies.

JASON GAMMEL, ANALYST, JEFFERIES & COMPANY: Oh, yes. Hello. Thanks, Jeff.

I was hoping that you might be just able to give us a little detail on those project startups that is you're expecting in 2016 and 2017, just to make sure my list is correct. And if you want to share the contribution that the 16 startups are making towards that 250KB capacity, that would be helpful, as well.

JEFF WOODBURY: Yes. On the startups in 2016, of course we've got Gordon Gents, we have later in the year Cashagone, we've got Julia in the Gulf of Mexico, Heidelberg in the Gulf of Mexico, Point Thompson in Alaska and Barsan in Qatar. And, Jason, we provide the peak level capacity in our F&O.

JASON GAMMEL: Great. So that probably hasn't changed too much since that was published then?

JEFF WOODBURY: No. And we'll provide an update to that list next month, as well.

JASON GAMMEL: Got it. And if I could ask one more, Jeff, on the downstream. You've put in place a couple of projects in Europe to potentially take advantage of heavier feed stocks over time, let's see, Antwerp being the primary one. I was hoping you could talk about what you're seeing just in terms of those heavier feed stocks within Europe and how the profitability's evolving on that.

JEFF WOODBURY: Yes. Thanks for the question on the downstream because the organization has really performed tremendously in the year. Our investments in the downstream, particularly in Europe are really focused on the following items, one, the increase talk flexibility, the second is to increase logistics flexibility.

The third one is to increase higher value product yields and I'll come back to that. And then the last -- and then important one is fully capturing the integration value of our manufacturing facilities and reducing our cost structure on the higher product value yields.

We talk about Antwerp or Rotterdam: both are achieving the same objective. On Antwerp, we're converting, bunker fuel oil into ultra low sulfur diesel, again, constructive on longer term supply demand. And in Rotterdam, we're converting VGO into premium group 2 base stocks, and, as well, ultra low sulfur diesel.

JASON GAMMEL: That's great. Appreciate that, Jeff.

JEFF WOODBURY: You're welcome.

OPERATOR: We'll go next to Asit Sen with CLSA.

ASIT SEN, ANALYST, COWEN AND COMPANY: Thanks. Hello, Jeff.

JEFF WOODBURY: Hello.

ASIT SEN: Two questions, one very quick one on Bania Europe. When do you get to peak on any of the size of the recovery resource, I think it's 450 million barrels and cost as mentioned, $3 billion?

JEFF WOODBURY: Yes. So the size of the resource, let me just confirm your number, it's about 450 million barrels gross. The ramp up, we should be up at full rates, somewhere in the first half of this year.

ASIT SEN: Okay. And the cost, I think $3 billion?

JEFF WOODBURY: Asit, I don't think we've shared the cost publicly.

ASIT SEN: All right. And then moving on to L&G, thanks for your color on the long-term L&G market. Just wondering if you could share any read into emerging near-term trend L&G, particularly response in China to a lower pricing environment. Given your comment on China deceleration, I thought that was an overall comment. And also on L&G, any update on Colin Pass?

JEFF WOODBURY: Two points. On the near-term expectation of L&G, there's a number of projects, some of which are already coming online that are probably going to take us above the demand for a period of time, say, into 2020 to 2023 when supply and demand will start coming to converge again. So, clearly, I mean it's going to have a pressure on those volumes that are trading on the spot market.

Just to remind everybody, when we make an investment decision on these projects, we lock in our investment decisions on long-term contracts. Golden pass we have submitted our formal application with Ferk to construct and operate the project.

We're working closely with the federal and state agencies for completing the review process in 2016, the final investment decision will be made once we've gone through the government and regulatory approvals.

ASIT SEN: Thanks, Jeff.

JEFF WOODBURY: You're welcome.

OPERATOR: We'll go next to Alan Good with Morningstar.

ALAN GOOD, ANALYST, MORNINGSTAR: Good morning.

JEFF WOODBURY: Good morning, Alan.

ALAN GOOD: I wonder if, given all the changes that we've seen in the oil markets over the last, call it 18 months, has Exxon revised the range of prices that it uses to evaluate investment decisions?

JEFF WOODBURY: Well, I'd say, Alan, that we continue to see that the range is applicable, given our constructive view on supply and demand. We won't speculate on specific prices or differentials.

We certainly expect the weakness until supply and demand comes back into balance and the storage overhang is worked off. As I've said a few times, Alan, regardless of what the price is doing, we're going to keep focused on those things that we control which, really translates into self-help margin.

ALAN GOOD: Thanks. That helps.

And then deepwater offshore a very big part of Exxon's portfolio, getting bigger from what you've shared today. Can you give any indication as to what Exxon's seen with respect to either cost savings via equipment or services or maybe even cost savings on the redesign of certain projects that will ultimately lower the break-evens and make them more competitive within your portfolio?

JEFF WOODBURY: Yes. Really good question. There's a lot of different variables in this.

One in terms of the quality of the resources, and the certainty on overall potential from those resources. Another one being, how do we get the structural capital efficiency built in so that the economics are more robust.

I'll highlight a couple things. One, in 2015, you'll recall in West Africa we brought in -- brought on two very capital-efficient subsea tiebacks to existing infrastructure, one being the Kazama satellites phase 2, another one being Iraha north phase 2, that allows us to leverage existing oilage and develop the deep water resource in a much more cost-effective way. Clearly there is a lot of opportunity to continue to standardized the subsea kit, but the organization is looking at all the levers to improve the economics of deep water. In the Gulf of Mexico, I should note that Hadrian South was another example of an efficient -- capital-efficient subsea tieback into existing infrastructure.

ALAN GOOD: Great. Thank you very much.

JEFF WOODBURY: You're welcome.

OPERATOR: We'll go next to Brad Heffron with RBC Capital Markets.

BRAD HEFFRON, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Good morning, Jeff.

JEFF WOODBURY: Good morning, Brad.

BRAD HEFFRON: Most of my questions have been answered so I'll keep it short. I was just curious back on CapEx. I would assume that downstream is relatively flat sequentially and that the vast majority of the cut is coming from the upstream side?

JEFF WOODBURY: Yes. We'll provide more insight on that, Brad. But as you saw in 2015 our downstream in chemical spending plan increased with a number of very large projects that we saw significant value chain benefit with the polyethylene trains in Baytown to the European investments that we have already talk about, and, of course, those projects are continuing as you go into 2016 and start up into 2017.

So, the trend is going to continue going forward.

BRAD HEFFRON: Okay. I'll leave it there. Thanks.

JEFF WOODBURY: Thank you.

OPERATOR: We'll go next to John Herrlin with Societe General.

JOHN HERRLIN, ANALYST, SOCIETE GENERAL: Yes, hi, Jeff. Couple quick ones from me since so many things have been asked. For the Lisa offset well, would we be talking about this in the second quarter conference, or in the first quarter conference call? Will it TD by then?

JEFF WOODBURY: So, John, I don't really have the specifics. When we believe there's something that would be important to share externally, we'll go ahead and share it. I just don't know whether the first quarter will be the appropriate time or not at this point.

JOHN HERRLIN: Okay. That's fine.

Many of your peers, Jeff, are restructuring; they're right sizing or downsizing. Exxon hasn't had any news like that. So are there any plans for the work, or do you feel that you have an adequately sized work force given your business model?

JEFF WOODBURY: It's a good question, John, and I appreciate you asking it.

Let me first say for the group's benefit that one of our greatest strengths are our people, and I think those of us that went through the layoffs in the 1980s really learned some of the hard lessons about how those layoffs significantly impaired organizational effectiveness.

I mean, since then we have been very diligent at managing employee head count, given the cyclical nature of the business and the need by the organization to be ever more productive, and at the same time grow collective competency to meet the challenges in front of us. In doing so, I'd also say that we've been unrelenting on our focus of capturing efficiencies to make sure that we right size the organization, again, given the likelihood of business volatility.

I'd also highlight, John, that another benefit of our integrated business model is that we're able to be agile in redeploying personnel to segments of our Business that are experience market strength or growth, such as our downstream and chemical businesses right now. All that said our employee head count has been coming down consistently since the Exxon and Mobile merger. We're down about 35% through 2015. Over that time period, if you look at just the last five years, we're down about 20%. And I can rest assured that the organization's going to continue to be focused on productivity enhancements and making sure that we're getting all the efficiencies out of the Business.

JOHN HERRLIN: Sure. But you haven't had anything that's knee jerk or reactionary as some of your peers of late. It's just been part of your normal plan, correct?

JEFF WOODBURY: That's correct.

JOHN HERRLIN: Thanks.

JEFF WOODBURY: Thank you, John.

OPERATOR: We'll go next to Pavel Molchanov with Raymond James.

PAVEL MOLCHANOV, ANALYST, RAYMOND JAMES: Thanks for taking the question. Just one from me. You talk about entering acreage in some new geographies, particularly some frontier type of geographies.

Since the oil down cycle began, have you noticed fiscal terms becoming more accommodating in any areas, and if you can provide any examples, that would be great.

JEFF WOODBURY: Good morning. I would tell you that, certainly given the downturn there are more opportunities for us to consider. There's nothing that I can share with you specifically, but it does, speak to the strength of ExxonMobil given that we've got the capability to invest in a down cycle, we bring a tremendous amount of operational, commercial and project expertise. So it allows us to be very selective as to what choices we want to pursue with a very strong focus on placing our attention on those areas that are close to existing producing infrastructure, those areas that have very high quality, large resource potential.

PAVEL MOLCHANOV: Appreciate it.

JEFF WOODBURY: Thank you, Pavel.

OPERATOR: We'll go next to Guy Baber with Simmons.

GUY BABER, ANALYST, SIMMONS & COMPANY INTERNATIONAL: Good morning, Jeff, and thanks for answering all the questions.

JEFF WOODBURY: Good morning, Guy.

GUY BABER: I know this is a tough question to answer, but I'm interested in how you think about this strategically. But given the scale of the CapEx reductions we're seeing, how do you think about the sustainability of these lower organic spending levels with respect to being sufficient to drive the modest level of production growth for the portfolio, yet also replenish the resource base?

Are you spending now below what you believe is sustainable, and how do you think about the balance between spending at a sustainable level versus perhaps rationing lower to limit your outspend for a period of time?

JEFF WOODBURY: Yes. I would tell you, Guy, that to really think about the decisions that we're making are really value driven. The output is really the volumes, but it's really making the choices that are aligned with creating value in the portfolio, whether it be in the upstream or the downstream or chemical business, recognizing that we've got this integration, this very strong integration across our portfolio that we can create value through the whole value chain, so the choices are really focused on making sure that we're creating incremental value. The volumes will be an output of that.

GUY BABER: Got it. That's helpful, Jeff.

And then last one for me, and I apologize if I missed this earlier, but given your global perspective, your participation in various downstream markets across the globe, can you give us the view on leading-edge global oil demand growth for 2016? Any color would be great, as it's obviously a critical piece of the global supply/demand balance.

JEFF WOODBURY: Yes. You're talking about oil demand?

GUY BABER: Yes, specifically oil demand.

JEFF WOODBURY: Yes. I talked a little bit earlier about underlying demand growth has been over 1 million barrels a day, so it's been a little bit higher than what we've seen over the 10-year average.

You think about where we are today, we're about 1 1/2 million barrels a day over supply in the first half. We do expect that to converge in the second half with seasonal demand growth. So you think about the impact on prices in the near term. It's really going to be a function of how that supply/demand converges, and, of course, working off the storage overhang that's been built up over the last couple of years. That's about all I can share at this point.

GUY BABER: Got it. Thanks, Jeff.

JEFF WOODBURY: Thank you.

OPERATOR: And that does conclude our question and answer session. I'll turn it back over to Mr. Jeff Woodbury for any closing remarks.

JEFF WOODBURY: Well, thank you.

To conclude, again I'd like to thank you for your time and the questions. I just want to step back for a moment and take stock of 2015 and say, the organization really did a very significant -- provided a very significant result when you think about it. Positive free cash flow, very effective cost management, lowering our spending that have bottom line impacts, benefits to the business, our excellence in project execution that are delivering long life, long plateau volumes, the benefits of the integrated business model across the value chain, the financial strength of the organization and investing through the commodity price cycle, and then, of course, our dividend growth continuing to share the success of the Company. I think that just points to the strong business fundamentals based on a proven track record.

We'll talk more about this in March, but we do appreciate your interest in ExxonMobil and we certainly look forward to meeting with you next month.

OPERATOR: And that does conclude today's conference call. We appreciate your participation.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
exxn : Exxon Mobil Corporation
   IN
i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1300003 : Crude Petroleum Extraction | iextra : Natural Gas/Oil Extraction
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Financial Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020160203ec2200237
  


 HD
 Q3  2015  Exxon  Mobil Corp Earnings Call - Final
   WC
10,826 words
   PD
30 October 2015
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©015 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day, everyone, and welcome to this Exxon Mobil Corporation third-quarter 2015 earnings conference call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time I would like to turn the call over to the Vice President of Investor Relations and Secretary, Mr. Jeff Woodbury. Please go ahead.

   TD
JEFF WOODBURY, VP OF IR & SECRETARY, EXXONMOBIL CORPORATION: Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Once again welcome to ExxonMobil's third-quarter earnings call. My comments this morning will refer to the slides that are available through the Investors section of our website. And as you know, before we go further I'd like to draw your attention to our cautionary statement shown on slide 2.

Turning now to slide 3, let me begin by summarizing the key headlines of our performance. ExxonMobil generated earnings of $4.2 billion in the third quarter. We maintain a relentless focus on our business fundamentals, including cost management, regardless of the commodity price cycle.

Despite the challenging environment the Corporation also continues to deliver on its investment and operating commitments. Third-quarter results reflect cyclical strength in our downstream and chemical segments and highlight the resilience of our integrated business model.

The Corporation's integrated cash flows underpin our dividend and enable investment through the cycle to grow shareholder value. Year-to-date the Corporation generated cash flow from operations and asset sales of $27.6 billion with positive free cash flow of $7.4 billion, even amid sharply lower commodity prices.

Moving to slide 4 we provide an overview of some of the external factors affecting our results. Global economic growth slowed during the third quarter. In the US growth tapered following the strong second quarter. China's economy continued to decelerate and the recovery in Japan remained weak. However, there is some evidence of economic stabilization in Europe.

Crude oil prices resumed their decline after improving in the second quarter, whereas global refining margin strengthened during the quarter. And in chemicals, both commodity and specialty product margins also improved.

Turning to the financial results as shown on slide 5. As indicated, third-quarter earnings were $4.2 billion or just over $1 a share. The Corporation distributed $3.6 billion to shareholders in the quarter through dividends and share purchases to reduce shares outstanding. And of that total $500 million were used to purchase shares.

CapEx was $7.7 billion benefiting from ongoing capital efficiencies as well as additional captured savings in the current market environment. Cash flow from operations and asset sales was $9.7 billion and at the end of the quarter cash totaled $4.3 billion and debt was $34.3 billion.

The next slide provides more detail on sources and uses of funds. So over the quarter cash decreased marginally from $4.4 billion to $4.3 billion.

Earnings adjusted for depreciation expense, changes in working capital and other items, and our ongoing asset management program yielded $9.7 billion of cash flow from operations and asset sales. Uses included net investments in the business of $6.2 billion and shareholder distributions of $3.6 billion. There was no net cash flow impact from debt and other financing items.

As you can see on the chart, the Corporation fully funded all shareholder distributions and net investments with cash flow from operations and asset sales in the quarter with a marginal decrease to the cash balance.

Moving on to slide 7 for a review of our segmented results. ExxonMobil's third-quarter earnings were down $3.8 billion from the year ago quarter. Lower upstream earnings were partially offset by stronger downstream results and lower corporate costs.

As shown on slide 8, results were comparable to the second quarter as lower upstream earnings offset stronger downstream results and lower corporate costs. Now on average corporate and financing expenses are anticipated to be $500 million to $700 million per quarter over the near-term.

Turning now to the upstream financial and operating results starting on slide 9. Upstream earnings in the third quarter were $1.4 billion, down $5.1 billion from the third quarter of 2014. Sharply lower commodity prices reduced earnings by $5.1 billion, where crude realizations declined more than $50 per barrel and gas was down more than $2 per thousand cubic feet.

Note that favorable volume and mix effects increased earnings $110 million driven by new project developments. All other items reduced earnings by $70 million where the absence of asset management teams were partly offset by lower operating expenses.

Moving to slide 10, oil equivalent production increased 87,000 barrels per day or 2.3% compared to the third quarter of last year. Liquids production increased 266,000 barrels per day or nearly 13% driven by project ramp-up and entitlement effects.

Natural gas production decreased 1.1 billion cubic feet per day due to regulatory restrictions in the Netherlands and field decline primarily in North America.

Turning now to the sequential comparison starting on slide 11. Upstream earnings were $673 million lower than the second quarter. Weaker liquids realizations reduced earnings $1.2 billion as crude prices were over $12 per barrel lower than the second quarter.

Volume and mix effects decreased earnings $30 million. All other items increased earnings $550 million reflecting favorable foreign exchange effects, lower operating costs and the absence of the deferred tax adjustment associated with the Alberta tax rate increase.

Upstream unit profitability for the third quarter was $3.88 per barrel excluding the impact of non-controlling interest volumes. Year-to-date earnings per barrel were $5.81.

Moving to slide 12, sequentially volumes decreased 61,000 oil equivalent barrels per day or 1.5%. Liquids production, however, increased 40,000 barrels per day as new project growth and work programs were partly offset by scheduled maintenance and field decline.

Natural gas production was 604 million cubic feet per day lower than the second quarter driven by entitlement effects, weaker seasonal demand in Europe and field decline.

Moving now to the downstream financial and operating results starting on slide 13. Downstream earnings for the quarter were $2 billion, up $1 billion compared to a year ago quarter. Our margins increased earnings by $1.4 billion. Volume and other impacts reduced earnings $280 million and $110 million respectively primarily driven by higher maintenance activity mostly in the US.

Turning to slide 14, sequentially downstream earnings were up $527 million. Stronger margins increased earnings by $320 million and higher volumes from lower maintenance activity contributed another $270 million. Other items reduced earnings by $60 million.

Moving now to the chemical financial and operating results starting on slide 15. Third-quarter chemical earnings of $1.2 billion were comparable to the prior year quarter. Improved margins contributed $210 million, favorable volume and mix effects added $30 million, and all other items decreased earnings by $210 million largely due to unfavorable foreign exchange effects.

Moving to slide 16, chemical earnings were also flat sequentially. Stronger margins increased earnings $160 million while favorable sales mix added $40 million. Other items reduced earnings $220 million reflecting the absence of asset management gains.

Now on slide 17 we want to reinforce the importance of the Corporation's focus on business fundamentals regardless of commodity prices. And this focus underpins our solid financial and operating results throughout the business cycle.

Our first imperative is operational integrity, ensuring safe, efficient and environmentally responsible operations founded on strong risk management.

Next we work to maximize the value of our assets by increasing facility utilization and reliability. Incremental barrel of oil produced or refined through improved reliability is one of the most profitable.

The next imperative is cost management. Reducing our cost structure is an ongoing focus in our existing operations and new developments. We also continuously enhance right size our global functional organization, capturing benefits from economies of scale, shared research in development programs and technologies, shared services and common best practices.

We currently run ExxonMobil with about the same number of employees as Exxon had just prior to the merger with Mobil. We are also quick to capture market savings. Our global procurement organization is dedicated to capturing the lowest lifecycle cost for goods and services.

As you can see in the chart on the left we are achieving significant market savings in the current business climate. So far this year we have achieved a net reduction of $8 billion in capital and cash operating costs. And I will note that this amount is in addition to the $4.5 billion decrease in planned 2015 CapEx relative to 2014 spend. Further, in the upstream unit costs are down about 10% year to date compared to last year.

And finally, our long-standing track record of superior project execution is a distinguishing characteristic of ExxonMobil and results in higher return capital efficient assets due to a lower capital base and on-time delivery.

Turning to slide 18, through our differentiated project development capability we are unlocking the value of our deep and diverse upstream portfolio. Excellent progress has been made on our investment plans to start up 32 major projects between 2012 and 2017.

We've started up 21 of these projects, including five this year, which added more than 750,000 oil equivalent barrels per day of working interest production capacity. More than 90% of these volumes are liquids or liquids linked to LNG.

We are achieving a strong reliability from our projects including more recent startups such as Kizomba Satellite Phase 2 in Angola, Adrian South in the Gulf of Mexico, and the Kearl expansion in Canada.

Papua New Guinea LNG project continues to achieve exceptional results. From its early startup in 2014 and quick ramp up to full capacity the project has produced nearly 9 million gross tons of high quality LNG and has delivered more than 125 cargoes to customers.

Now since startup we have progressed low cost debottlenecking activities to enhance production rates. Our systematic approach has increased gross capacity of the PNG LNG project from 6.9 million tons to 7.3 million tons per year. This is yet another example of ExxonMobil's constant focus on maximizing the value of installed capacity and improving profitability.

Two additional capital efficient projects were commissioned in September. In Nigeria Erha North Phase 2 started up five months ahead of schedule and $400 million under budget. This subsea development ties back to existing infrastructure shown in the photo, avoiding the need for another FPSO vessel.

Gross peak production is estimated at 65,000 barrels of oil per day and will increase total Erha North field production to approximately 90,000 barrels per day.

Also in September the first ever subsea compression facility started up at Aasgard in the Norwegian North Sea at a depth of nearly 1,000 feet. This is a prime example of developing and applying advanced technologies to unlock previously uneconomic reserves. At peak the project is expected to add gross production of approximately 40,000 barrels of oil and more than 400 million cubic feet of gas per day.

And finally, in Indonesia at the Banyu Urip development startup of the central processing facility is expected by year end, enabling gross production to ramp up to more than 200,000 barrels per day.

Moving now to exploration on slide 19. We continue high grading our 92 billion barrel resource base through new opportunity captures and leveraging the benefits of a softer market as we progress our exploration activities.

Offshore Guyana we are conducting the largest 3-D seismic survey in the Company's history to evaluate the resource potential of the 6.6 million acre Stabroek Block. Additional exploration drilling is planned in the first half of 2016.

Offshore Nigeria we secured interests in two high potential blocks, building upon our 800,000 acre position. These blocks are adjacent to where we made two discoveries last year. Future developments could tie back to the nearby Usan FPSO which is operated by ExxonMobil.

And in the US Permian we acquired rights to 48,000 acres in the core of the Midland basin adjacent to existing operations. We have grown our operated portfolio in the basin to over 135,000 net acres from a series of acquisitions during the last two years.

Turning to slide 20 and an update on our downstream business where we are selectively investing to grow higher value product sales. We recently announced the expansion of our hydrocracker unit at the Rotterdam refinery shown in the picture to the left.

The project will utilize ExxonMobil's proprietary hydrocracking technology, efficiently producing Group 2 premium loop base stocks and ultralow sulfur diesel to meet growing market demand. Rotterdam refinery is fully integrated with our chemical manufacturing.

The hydrocracker project will increase production of higher value products and further strengthen the refinery's position as a leader in the European refining industry. Construction is expected to begin in 2016 with startup projected in 2018.

This project along with recently completed base stock capacity expansions at our Baytown, Texas and Singapore refineries will further enhance our position as the world's largest producer of loop-based stocks.

In addition to these capacity expansions we are investing across our lubricants value chain. At our petrochemical complex in Singapore we announced the construction of a new synthetic lubricant blending plant to extend the production of Mobil 1, our flagship synthetic engine oil brand.

This new plant will employ innovative blending technologies, drive increased operating efficiency and enable us to support the growing Asian market demand from premium synthetic lubricants. Startup has been planned in 2017.

Moving now to a discussion of year-to-date cash flow on slide 21. This graphic illustrates the Corporation's sources and uses of cash. Our integrated businesses provided $26 billion of cash flow from operations which supports shareholder distributions and funds our investments.

Scale of these cash flows and our balance sheet strength provide the financial flexibility to invest through the cycle. Cash flow from operations and asset sales of $27.6 billion funded shareholder distributions and nearly all of our net investments in the business supplemented by a small increase in debt financing.

These investments have attractive financial returns and justify the additional leverage. Our objective is to pay a reliable and growing dividend, directly ensuring the Corporation success with our shareholders. Quarterly dividends per share of $0.73 are up 5.8% versus the third quarter of 2014.

We have also maintained a share buyback program, but have prudently tapered it over the past nine months, consistent with changes in the business environment and the Corporation's cash requirements. Share purchases to reduce shares outstanding are expected to remain at $500 million in the fourth quarter of 2015.

And finally, year to date the Corporation has generated $7.4 billion of free cash flow, reflecting the performance of our integrated businesses and our disciplined capital allocation approach.

So, I would now like to conclude this morning's comments with just a summary of our year-to-date performance. In short, the Corporation is delivering on its investment and operating commitments.

Through the end of the third quarter ExxonMobil earned $13.4 billion reflecting the benefits of our integrated business model, which captures value throughout the cycle, as demonstrated by our strong downstream and chemical results.

Upstream production volumes increase to 4 million oil equivalent barrels per day, up 2.7% year on year. Volume contributions from a portfolio of new developments underscore our project execution excellence and reputation as a reliable operator.

We remain on track to achieve our production target of 4.1 million barrels per day for the full year with additional project ramp-up and seasonal gas production increases throughout the quarter.

Solid operating results combined with continued investment and cost discipline generated cash flow from operations and asset sales of $27.6 billion and free cash flow of $7.4 billion.

Our commitment to shareholders remains strong as the Corporation distributed $11.5 billion through the end of the third quarter. So regardless of industry conditions, we remain focused on what we control and are driven to create shareholder value through the cycle.

This concludes my prepared remarks and I certainly would be happy to take your questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Doug Leggate, Bank of America Merrill Lynch.

DOUG LEGGATE, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: One housekeeping and one strategic question if I may. Just on housekeeping, this quarter I guess the number that jumped out to us was your tax rate. And I'm just trying to understand is that just a mix effect or is there anything unusual going on there that we should be aware of?

But put another way, if we had a sustained [low] oil price environment I am guessing we would expect the tax rate would mean at depressed levels, is that fair?

JEFF WOODBURY: Yeah, well the tax rate, if you think about it from a quarter-on-quarter perspective, Doug, it is down just shy of 12% and there are two components. One, as you said, is the mix effect across our business segments and geographies, same as what you have heard from us the prior quarters. There is also one-time tax related items that reduce the tax rate by about 3%.

So we are still consistent with our guidance that assuming the current commodity prices and our existing portfolio mix, we would anticipate an effective tax rate between 35% and 40%. If you unwind the 3% to a one-time impact in the third quarter that takes you up to 35%. And if you look at year to date our effective tax rate is about 37%. So our guidance of 35% to 40% is right on.

DOUG LEGGATE: To be clear, that is a consolidated rate or is that including affiliates? That is just consolidated, right?

JEFF WOODBURY: That is consolidated.

DOUG LEGGATE: Got it, okay. My follow-up is -- I guess I am going to go to Guyana. So one of your partners is suggesting that there is reasonable potential for an early production system here. And I am just wondering given that as operator we really -- you are the kind of source of all knowledge so to speak.

Can you give us some idea as to how you are thinking internally about scale opportunity given just the embryonic nature of this whole situation?

Further, there is an early production system planned. And I guess I know there is a lot of embedded questions there, but the relative importance at Exxon is giving this within your general portfolio in terms of personnel allocation and things of that nature. Just a broad feel as to how you are thinking about this what looks like a fairly interesting area? I will leave it there, thanks.

JEFF WOODBURY: Sure, Doug. Let be step back first and just remind you the exploration program as a whole is really designed to ensure that we are targeting opportunities that will high-grade our resource portfolio.

As you heard from us earlier this year, we are very encouraged with the initial result of Guyana. As I've said previously, Doug, and as you seem to imply, we have got one well in a area that is very large, 6.6 million acres, very encouraged by the initial result.

As I said in my prepared comments, we do have a very active seismic program underway that is informing us as we put together our plans for some drilling activity in the first half.

Now obviously we are taking all that information real-time and we are incorporating it into our thinking. But it is really too early for us to share any specific plans. But rest assured, Doug, we will look at the full range of development options to see how we can best monetize the resource with the objective of achieving optimized return on investment.

DOUG LEGGATE: Thanks, Jeff. Appreciate the answer.

OPERATOR: Doug Terreson, Evercore ISI.

DOUG TERRESON, ANALYST, EVERCORE ISI: I had a point of clarification as well. What was the asset sale that was highlighted on slide 6? And was this $500 million after-tax amount included in the operating earnings that is in the $1.01 per share?

JEFF WOODBURY: So the $500 million from cash flow represents a number of multiple assets. As we have said historically, Doug, we have as part of the key component of our asset -- our business is a very active asset management program to high-grade our portfolio.

So the $500 billion -- or $500 million positive cash impact really represents many different transactions that occurred over the quarter. On a quarter-on-quarter basis it was the absence of a trade that we did third quarter of last year.

DOUG TERRESON: Okay, I see. And also on capital spending it is running about 20% below last year's level. And while the gap seems to have narrowed somewhat versus the recent quarter, it has actually widened versus the first half in the upstream.

So my question is whether or not you could provide some color on the spending trends. And also any insight that you may have on the trend for 2016 in light of the pretty significant changes that are being announced by some of your competitors, that is if you have any guidance at this point.

JEFF WOODBURY: Sure, Doug. I mean I will say in short that our CapEx guidance has not been changed. We are still saying -- have a guidance for this year at $34 billion and 2016 and 2017 below $34 billion. Of course we'll provide an update and analyst meeting in March.

But as I alluded to last quarter, and you see in the savings I talked about year to date, we are seeing substantial capital efficiencies on the CapEx side. We are running lower than our plan and it is reasonable to extrapolate that to a yearend number that will bring us below our $34 billion.

And thinking forward, Doug, I would also say that those type of efficiencies and improvements that we are capturing, including market savings, and a stronger US dollar, will be extrapolated forward into the 2016 and 2017 programs.

DOUG TERRESON: Okay, great. Thanks a lot.

OPERATOR: Brad Heffern, RBC Capital Markets.

BRAD HEFFERN, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Just sort of following up on the past question. Obviously you identified the $8 billion in cost savings so far. I am curious what inning we are in, if you will, as far as cost savings go? Do you feel like you have harvested the majority of savings that you expect to have as a result of the downturn or is there a lot more to come?

JEFF WOODBURY: Well, you know, Brad, I think just stepping back, we are never satisfied with our cost structure. We are -- as is clearly mentioned many times, we are always working to reduce the structural cost in our business. So I would never tell you that we are done.

Within the market capture, the market benefits, we continue to work actively with our service providers to identify innovative, lower-cost solutions that end up being win-win solutions outcomes because they know we have got the financial capability to invest if we have the right cost structure and ultimately the right economics.

So we are actively pursuing additional opportunities and our expectation is that we will continue to drive meaningful improvement in our cost structure while maintaining high operational integrity.

BRAD HEFFERN: Okay, thanks for that. And then thinking about on shore US, can you talk about the current rig count across your three major basins? And there was obviously a big decline last quarter. Can you talk through how much of -- if it has declined further, how much of that is just pure efficiencies versus the amount of activity you would like to have?

JEFF WOODBURY: Yes, it is probably both of that. It is both efficiency as well as an intentional effort to manage our spend given the business climate. Right now, I mean currently we have got running about 32 rigs in our lower 48 on shore rig activity. That is down from our peak.

And in essence it is down because of the reasons I have already stated and that is we continue to see significant improvements in operational performance, cost and productivity. So while the rig count is down part of that is offset by the improvement in performance. But the second part of it, again, is due to a deliberate effort to manage within our means.

BRAD HEFFERN: Great, thank you.

OPERATOR: Evan Calio, Morgan Stanley.

EVAN CALIO, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Just first to follow up on the CapEx, on the $8 billion of cost savings year to date. Can you give us color of the composition in that reduction between capital and cash costs? And I thought I heard you say that is an addition to the $4.5 billion step down from 2014 to 2015.

JEFF WOODBURY: Yes, Evan, it is in addition to the $4.5 billion. So the $8 billion is really from our target, our CapEx guidance that we had provided. In terms of the split between CapEx and OpEx I'd just -- generally speaking I would just tell you it is a little over $1 billion CapEx, the rest is OpEx -- cash OpEx.

EVAN CALIO: Got it. It helps if you think about 2016. My second question is on LNG. I know there is a mix in contract durations within your global LNG portfolio, and it changes over time as contracts -- some contracts reopen has had been reported. But can you give -- can you quantify the aggregate spot market exposure in your portfolio for Exxon into 2016?

JEFF WOODBURY: I can generally tell you that it is a fairly low component of our portfolio. Remember, our LNG projects continue to be a key component of our portfolio and it is a very important part of our margin generation.

And as you may have heard us say in the past, when we go to FID on these big multibillion-dollar complex LNG projects, we typically contract under long-terms our LNG volumes, our proved LNG or proved reserves with very little bit left for spot.

EVAN CALIO: So less than 10%, is that a fair assumption?

JEFF WOODBURY: That is a fair assumption.

EVAN CALIO: Great, I appreciate it.

OPERATOR: Phil Gresh, JPMorgan.

PHIL GRESH, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Just a quick follow-up on the capital cost reduction number. Would you say that there has been a significant impact this year to pulling forward any capital spending to take advantage of this environment? That as we look ahead to next year you could actually have a good year-over-year benefit from that?

JEFF WOODBURY: Yes. Well, clearly you know the strength of our balance sheet and our ability to continue to invest through the cycle provides an added benefit. Those projects that are in execution right now coupled with the capability of our global procurement organization to capture market savings allows us to leverage those benefits in the current projects.

Likewise, if you rewind a bit to our discussion around the lower 48 unconventional activity, we are taking full advantage of high grading the services that were provided. We are very well positioned to advance certain commodity purchases, but rest assured we are taking full benefit of the current market climate.

PHIL GRESH: Is there any way to quantify the benefit of pull forward plus project roll off?

JEFF WOODBURY: No. Phil, it is really hard to do that. I mean the business is very [expansive] in terms of scope and scale. We have got -- a lot of those cost savings vary dramatically between asset and geographic regions. So it is really difficult for us to go ahead and break that down further.

PHIL GRESH: Okay, understood. My follow up question is just on the M&A bid ask spreads. Other companies have sounded a bit more upbeat. I know in the past you have said you think they are too wide still.

So anything changed there in the past few months? And with respect to how wide they have been for how long, has that surprised you at all given where we are in the cycle relative to past cycles?

JEFF WOODBURY: Well, I mean, all I really can say about it is as you would envision. I mean the bid ask price is really a function of a number of factors, obviously including the business climate. But also what I would tell you is the unique capability and assessment from individual investors.

I mean, certainly as commodity prices remain low it will impact the dynamics. I really don't have a view to share with respect to where it is going. I would tell you from our perspective it is business as normal.

As you have heard me say several times, Phil, that this is a key component of our ongoing business, not only acquisitions but high grading our portfolio from divestments. I would simply just say that any acquisition will have to compete with our diverse inventory of investment opportunities.

PHIL GRESH: Okay, thanks, Jeff.

OPERATOR: Neil Mehta, Goldman Sachs.

NEIL MEHTA, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Jeff, I want you to comment a little bit on the downstream here and maybe we start off with some of the announced divestments, Chalmette and Torrance and talk through a little bit of the strategic logic behind divesting those assets. And then what we can read, if any, from how you think about the downstream portfolio as a percentage of the mix of the Company.

JEFF WOODBURY: Sure, Neil. Maybe I can start with just a reminder for the group that -- and as I said a moment ago, this is a very important part of our overall business activities, the asset management focus.

And from a downstream perspective, if you look at the last decade we have divested more than 1 million barrels a day of refining capacity, something like 6,000 miles of pipeline and over 200 fuel terminals. And I start there because it just highlights that we continue to high-grade the portfolio.

And it really talks to our effort towards enhancing our portfolio through identifying appropriate investment opportunities like you are seeing in Rotterdam, in Singapore, focusing on risk balancing of our portfolio and then pursuing monetization opportunities.

Obviously there is a lot of variables that go into such a decision for the downstream, including our large manufacturing footprint in the US. But ultimately the right decision for it was to monetize those assets and to continue to focus our investments on areas that will upgrade our existing portfolio.

Many of our sites being advantaged, a lot of those investments focused on things like expanding our feedstock flexibility like you see in our plans to expand the Beaumont refinery; like expanding our logistics flexibility like we talked about previously with the Edmonton rail terminal. Expanding our higher yield -- higher value products, which you are seeing with the Rotterdam refinery and the Antwerp refinery. And underlying all of that is further capturing increased value from our integrated business model.

NEIL MEHTA: And then the follow-up question, Jeff, is a follow-up to Phil's question around M&A. And as you think about the US unconventional business, you did a tuck-here, 48,000 acres in the Permian. Is that the right strategy for Exxon to continue to look for incremental bolt-on acquisitions of acreage that you can tuck into the portfolio under XTO, or does larger scale M&A of US conventional assets create value at the right price?

JEFF WOODBURY: Well, we think it is the right strategy. We think everything is available for us to consider. It will be a full range from our investment activity to the bolt-on acquisitions that you have seen us do here in the lower 48 on conventional in the last two years to larger scale acquisitions where fundamentally, it keeps on going back to that test. It has to compete with the investment opportunities that we have in our portfolio.

And if the view is that we can capture additional strategic value, and overall our assessment is that we will capture longer-term accretive performance, then it really sets up the stage for something that we would be interested in. And remember, we keep that financial capability so that we are agile to respond to opportunities that come along.

NEIL MEHTA: Makes sense. Thank you very much, Jeff.

JEFF WOODBURY: Thanks, Neil.

OPERATOR: Paul Cheng, Barclays.

PAUL CHENG, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Jeff, two question if I may. One a quick one, just clarification on the quarter. Maybe I miss it; did you tell us that what is the actual asset sales gain on the P&L in this quarter, and also whether there is any timing benefit [light] from the price realization for your downstream?

JEFF WOODBURY: Well, on the first question, Paul, what I said was there really is from an earnings impact, there is really nothing for us to share. There is nothing notable across the transactions.

Your second question, can you repeat that again?

PAUL CHENG: No, that is part of the first question, is that do you have typically that when you buy crude because of the long haul, sometimes that when oil price is dropping that you have a price realization benefit on the finalization. Do you have that number you can share with us?

JEFF WOODBURY: Yes. So quarter on quarter, it is a negative about $100 million. On sequentially, it is negative about $200 million.

PAUL CHENG: So sequentially is about $200 million negative.

JEFF WOODBURY: That is correct.

PAUL CHENG: Second question is a little bit more strategic. If I look at your portfolio, say broadly divide them into deep water, oil sands, shale oil and LNG, when you look at those buckets can you reinforce that in terms of the attractiveness of future investment within your portfolio on those buckets? In other words, that which one is wearing the highest and which one is the lowest within your portfolio today?

JEFF WOODBURY: Paul, I would ask you to think about it a little bit differently; that within each one of those resource types there is a range of attractiveness in terms of value. We may have some very attractive resources in each one of those categories that would compete very effectively with other high-value resources within another bucket.

Quite frankly what is really important here that I would ask you to think about is that we have a very diverse and deep resource base that we are able to participate in each one of those resource categories. And within those resource categories we have got very high-value investment opportunities that will effectively compete for allocation of capital.

PAUL CHENG: Yes, that is fair. Maybe let me ask from another angle then. Out of the 98 billion barrel of your resource do you have a rough estimate how much of them, based on today's technology and the physical term, you would be able to generate more than a 10% return [under a $60 Brent]?

JEFF WOODBURY: Well, on the 92 billion resource base, again I would ask you to think about it differently. Because what the organization does is we will continue to optimize our development alternatives to make sure that we maximize the return on these barrels.

So if we identify a resource that we don't think we can get an attractive return on, there will be other means to go ahead and either implement a different development scheme that will reduce the economic risk and improve the return. Or ultimately we may choose to go ahead and monetize the asset.

So it is a dynamic portfolio that is really working towards getting the greatest value from every barrel. And then of course we complement that with our application of technology. I mean I will just use the unconventionals as a good example about how technology has really increased the value of the unconventional resources.

Another good example is in oil sands, how technology is being applied to a really improve the profitability and allow us to capture greater value from those resources. So I think it really speaks to the strengths of ExxonMobil.

We have the know-how, we have got the excellence in how we go ahead and do our development planning, how we identify value added real-time technology to enhance our investment choices. And then of course leveraging our ability to interface with the resource owners to find the right fiscal environment to go ahead and progress the investments.

PAUL CHENG: Okay. Very good. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Sam Margolin, Cowen and Company.

SAM MARGOLIN, ANALYST, COWEN AND COMPANY: So, on the last call there was a little bit of inquiry about kind of growth opportunities post this round of guidance in 2018. It strikes me that sort of US gas is a really big component of your resource base without pulling much weight in income today and perhaps there is an opportunity for that slug of resource to provide some of that sort of outer year growth.

I was wondering if you could just maybe walk us through your broader views on gas, specifically any kind of path you see for that tranche of production to start contributing a little bit more to the overall income profile.

JEFF WOODBURY: Sure. Let's start, Sam, with our energy outlook. And if you think about the energy outlook, gas is growing about 1.6% per year. From an LNG perspective from where we are say 2010 to 2040 we expect LNG demand to triple from current capacity. So that really sets up, if you will, the investment case.

And then globally we are very well-positioned with gas assets around the globe to participate not only in the domestic market but in the LNG market. So maybe if I can focus now on just the US for a moment.

We have had a constructive view that gas is going to continue to grow in the US as gas replaces coal for power generation. Our gas resource base is also significantly underpinning our investment in our petrochemical.

So our expansion, for instance, at the Baytown refinery to add ethylene lines, 1.5 million tons per annum, as well as a concurrent investment at Mont Belvieu to add polyethylene lines, in fact metallocene polyethylene, will be underpinned by an advantage feedstock, that is US natural gas.

And then furthermore, it also positions us to provide a source for LNG export into the global market. By way of example, we are progressing through regulatory review the Golden Pass LNG export facility. Think of it as a brownfield development because it was -- all the original investment associated with the export facility is going to be advantaging that site as we move forward into an export facility.

SAM MARGOLIN: Okay, so that kind of brings me to my follow-up I guess. How much of your investment evaluation process is geared around integrating some of the resources that you have in place?

So, for example, could you -- as you see kind of US gas here get pressured in the near-term from improved economics from unconventional producers, would that ever lead you to accelerate your investment in things like ethylene crackers or even US LNG facilities to sort of promote your own position?

JEFF WOODBURY: I think it is a good question, Sam. Think about it this way, that we will time the investment in gas resource development activities to underpin value chain opportunities that we are pursuing. That is expansion into petrochemicals. That would be the LNG export. We will time those resource development activities to underpin the value chain investments that we are pursuing.

SAM MARGOLIN: Perfect, thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Blake Fernandez, Howard Weil.

BLAKE FERNANDEZ, ANALYST, HOWARD WEIL: A question for you. a lot of your peers have been recognizing impairments and restructuring charges. I guess partially as a function of headcount reductions and OpEx reductions and then secondly resetting internal price decks.

I was wondering if you could remind me, is there time line that Exxon uses to reset the internal deck that they are using. And then secondly, with some of these operating cost reductions that you are seeing, is part of that headcount related in which case we may see some restructuring charges?

JEFF WOODBURY: Well, we don't have any plans, Blake, to have any restructuring charges. As I said in the prepared comments, we have really focused on rightsizing the organization through our history. Particularly if you reference the merger of Exxon and Mobil to where we are today, we are down over 30% in terms of total employees.

So, we are constantly rightsizing that organization and identifying additional opportunities to improve the productivity of the organization as a whole. So we don't anticipate any restructuring charges.

BLAKE FERNANDEZ: Okay, and it doesn't sound like there is a time line on internal price forecasting or anything like that, like some companies use a third-quarter or something like that?

JEFF WOODBURY: Well, I mean, I will go back to talking about what really informs us is our outlook on supply and demand.

BLAKE FERNANDEZ: Okay, okay. The second question for you very briefly. A lot of companies are starting to see lower decline rates as a function of increased reliability or some of the longer plateau projects coming online. This may be a better question for the Analyst Day, but I didn't know if you were witnessing the same thing in your portfolio.

JEFF WOODBURY: Well, I mean, generally speaking if you look at our 10-K we continue to update our, if you will, average decline rate over the long-term, which is still about 3%. That does not include uplift due to major new project developments.

But we have continued to invest in some very long life assets that have really very long plateau production rates like Kearl, like the LNG investments we have made in Papua New Guinea and in Qatar. That gives a very strong foundation to our production, but importantly a valuable foundation that contributes significant cash flow.

BLAKE FERNANDEZ: Okay, thanks a lot, Jeff.

OPERATOR: Anish Kapadia, Tudor Pickering & Holt.

ANISH KAPADIA, ANALYST, TUDOR, PICKERING & HOLT: My first question is going back to -- somewhat to the industry cost-cutting and CapEx cutting that you are seeing. And it seems like some other companies are cutting a lot more aggressively than yourselves, given the state that some of those companies' balance sheets are in.

I was just wondering on the back of that when would you expect that to have some kind of an impact on your non-operated production given that we might see higher decline rates coming through with the lower number of infill wells being drilled, less tiebacks being put into place as projects get canceled.

JEFF WOODBURY: Well, Anish, that is a hard one to answer in terms of what others are going to do that results in volume impacts on our non-operated. Recognize that a large part of our portfolio is driven by long life investments. These are multi-decade investments that are generating volumes over the long-term.

Granted there is a material component that is much more shorter cycle investments and we have seen some of the assets where we are not the operator, the activity drop off significantly because of weaker balance sheets. Of course that may present an opportunity for us.

ANISH KAPADIA: Okay, thank you. And my second question was on your US gas production. It seems like it has been fairly weak this quarter, it's down around 9% year over year. And I think you had some benefit with Hadrian coming on stream.

Just wondering in terms of that trend and that decline rate. Can you just give some kind of outlook of how you see your US gas production progressing, especially in kind of the current gas price environment and how you expect the gas environment to evolve? What does that mean for your US gas production? Thank you.

JEFF WOODBURY: Yes, a large part -- I will remind you that a large part of our gas is coming from our unconventional resources. We are the largest gas producer in the US. We have not been investing in drilling activity here very significantly, primarily given the outlook for near-term gas demand.

And as I said earlier, we are going to pace the investment program consistent with expected demand growth for conversion from coal to natural gas and power gen, the investment in petrochemicals, the regulatory approvals needed in order to export that gas and compete in the LNG market.

Unfortunately, given certain regulatory restrictions in the US, that does slow down the investment opportunities. And I think it really points to the opportunity the US has to more actively participate in the global market.

ANISH KAPADIA: That is great, thank you.

OPERATOR: Ryan Todd, Deutsche Bank.

RYAN TODD, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Maybe I could do one higher level one first. If we think about project sanctions and your investment in long cycle projects right now, where do you think you are in the deferral or re-investment process?

Have you seen costs come down to a level at this point on long cycle projects where you feel like it is time to kind of reaccelerate investment? Have you not deferred much in your view at this point?

Or probably I guess, what have you seen on FIDs? What FIDs could we expect going forward? Or do you think that costs need to come down further for you to get reengaged?

JEFF WOODBURY: Well, Ryan, I guess I would tell you that we haven't disengaged. We have maintained an active investment program in addition to the 32 major upstream projects that I have talked about and in the financial -- the FID decisions that we have taken on some of our downstream and chemical projects.

We have given you some line of sight on the next tranche of upstream investment opportunities that are currently in various stages of either development planning or even in early stages of pre-engineering, if you will. It gives you a sense for what we are working on.

I want to remind you that we are capturing real-time benefits through capital efficiency in our investment program. Those are structural improvements that we are capturing. Yes, there are market improvements that we are experiencing as well.

But as we make the investment decisions we test those investments across a very wide range of prices including commodity prices. So -- and that is well within the current price environment.

So the investments are very robust, resilient to a number of factors that can significantly influence them and that positions us very well to continue a continuous investment program, not get the inefficiencies of the stop and the starts, obviously underpinned by over financial capability, and allows us to further capture economic uplift in the current market climate.

RYAN TODD: Great, thanks, that is helpful. And then maybe if I could ask one more specific one. On the last quarter you provided some -- a little bit more granular production levels on some of your (inaudible) assets, where they were in the quarter in the Permian, the Bakken, the Woodford.

Would you be willing to do -- to say what those assets produced in the third quarter and maybe what your Midland basin average is up to at this point?

JEFF WOODBURY: Yes, so the Midland basin acreage, as I said in the prepared comments, we are up to 135,000 net acres.

In terms of production or total gross operated protection from the Permian, Bakken and Woodford is just shy of 250,000 barrels a day. Bakken is leading that at over 100,000 barrels a day, Permian is approaching 100,000 and the rest is in the Woodford.

RYAN TODD: Okay, thank you.

OPERATOR: Edward Westlake, Credit Suisse.

EDWARD WESTLAKE, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Okay, getting to the top of the hour so I will leave my contentious one for the second question. First one, you mentioned pick up extra acreage in Nigeria. Any signs that Nigeria is moving forward in terms of changing terms to sort of get those attractive reservoirs actually development flowing?

JEFF WOODBURY: I think there is a clear recognition that there are some opportunities to stimulate further investment technology application within the country. And I think there is an earnest effort to try to put in place the right investment climate.

There is significant opportunity in Nigeria. And as we said in the prepared comments, we are encouraged by the exploration results that we have had. But we are going to have to wait and see where it moves.

There are a lot of issues that they are dealing with and we have got to be patient, but we have got to make sure that we're way in. But in short I would tell you that we are encouraged by the new government and where they are heading.

EDWARD WESTLAKE: And this is a small potentially contentious issue. Just I saw Asia gas volumes down and I hear that Petronet in India is sort of rejecting cargoes or at least low on their take or pay commitments.

I mean, just maybe talk through -- it is probably just a timing issue in terms of how that might affect volumes. But talk through about any issues with Asia gas that we should be aware of just for modeling.

JEFF WOODBURY: Well, and I guess what you are referring to is on Asia gas that were down sequentially. That is primarily due to some entitlement impacts associated with some quarterly true ups as well as some decline in other impacts.

With respect to LNG contracts, they are confidential, as you can appreciate. As I said earlier, all of our contracts are based on a longer time horizon. We have got various elements within the contracts to give us and the buyer some flexibility. But there is really nothing more to share beyond that.

EDWARD WESTLAKE: Thanks very much.

OPERATOR: Paul Sankey, Wolfe Research.

PAUL SANKEY, ANALYST, WOLFE RESEARCH: Jeff, I think when we met midyear you were saying there hadn't been a major upstream FID this year. And at the same time I am seeing that you are consistently losing money in US E&P. The two -- one is obviously long cycle, the other is short cycle.

I was wondering in the short cycle case why you seem to be maintaining very high levels of activity when you have got nearly a $0.5 billion loss here. And whether or not that is a function of perhaps oil profits being offset by natural gas losses or if I am missing something about the breakdown of that loss?

JEFF WOODBURY: Yes, so, let me kind it give you a perspective of the upstream US business. Paul, all of our assets are managed to maximize returns through the lifecycle, which is obviously on a longer time horizon in the current price environment.

As you have heard me say before, we really focus on those things that we control like the integrity, reliability, productivity, importantly our development and operating costs, making sure that we have got operational flexibility. And as you have heard in the downstream side, the pursuit of higher value product yields.

I would say that importantly we invest in attractive opportunities through the cycle that will further enhance the profitability and capture savings in the soft market. And as I have said before the current investment program that we are -- that we have underway in the US portfolio is attractive in this price environment. I will also (multiple speakers).

PAUL SANKEY: I guess based on the assumption that oil prices are higher in the future?

JEFF WOODBURY: No, not at all.

PAUL SANKEY: Is it based on the assumption that efficiency gains will make it profitable in the future?

JEFF WOODBURY: Based on factual current data that we have got and how we manage the portfolio as well as the existing operations.

PAUL SANKEY: Well, I guess what I am looking at is this nearly $0.5 billion loss in US E&P.

JEFF WOODBURY: Right.

PAUL SANKEY: Will that become profitable in due course at these prices?

JEFF WOODBURY: Again, we manage the business over a longer time horizon. And to be clear, our US upstream portfolio continues to generate positive cash flow.

PAUL SANKEY: Okay, so it is (inaudible). So what is the problem with the earnings then?

JEFF WOODBURY: Again, Paul, we manage the business over the longer time horizon and we will continue to do what we do very well and manage the things that we control, continue to work on the operating cost and the reliability.

PAUL SANKEY: Yes, I understand, I am just sort of slightly digging around just because it has been a fairly consistent loss and because it is short cycle. I think that is what I am really driving at, that I would have thought that it is a short cycle business therefore the short-term performance might be better.

JEFF WOODBURY: Well, the increase in the loss in the third quarter was primarily driven by another reduction in crude realizations that we all experienced, as well as some additional downtime and maintenance.

PAUL SANKEY: Got it, okay, thanks, Jeff. I will leave it there. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Jason Gammel, Jefferies.

JASON GAMMEL, ANALYST, JEFFERIES & CO.: Thank you. It's getting pretty long into the call, so I am just going to keep it one and hopefully be fairly quick. Jeff, can you confirm that the Iraqi government has asked you to slow investment at the West Qurna project?

And can you comment whether you are now at peak capacity in Phase 1 of the project and whether you'll be able to hold that level if you are not investing?

JEFF WOODBURY: Well, on the first point, Jason, I really can't talk about discussions between us and the government. Production has remained above about 400,000 barrels a day in the third quarter with continued pressure support. And that has grown over the recent past.

JASON GAMMEL: And do you expect to be able to hold it at that level?

JEFF WOODBURY: Well, it will be our intent to maintain production levels. Obviously that is going to require continued investment and pressure maintenance.

JASON GAMMEL: Got it, thank you.

OPERATOR: Roger Read, Wells Fargo.

ROGER READ, ANALYST, WELLS FARGO SECURITIES: I guess maybe kind of following one of the questions earlier from Ed. As you look at other countries where maybe they are becoming a little more reasonable, whether it is their tax structure, royalty structure, or PSEs, etc., we have seen Canada raise taxes, we have had Nigeria stuck in neutral for a number of years.

As you look across the rest of the globe are there any places where we are seeing some adjustments from a political standpoint that might make things more attractive over the next couple of years?

JEFF WOODBURY: I think if you look at the globe across the full value chain for the energy sector, I would point to the progress being made in a number of places. One place is Mexico. Mexico has made significant progress opening up the door to investment. You think about some opportunities in West Africa that have opened up, East Africa.

Now of course when you open up a new area there are a lot of other issues we have got to deal with because there is limited infrastructure, perhaps not a well established fiscal basis. So it does take more time.

But nonetheless, I mean I would tell you from a -- encouraging foreign investment that there has been some pretty good progress out there that has increased the amount of opportunities that we have got before us.

ROGER READ: Okay, and as a follow-up to that, you mentioned earlier in the M&A discussion that it had to compete with your internal opportunities. As you look at kind of maybe a changing dynamic internationally and your exploration spending, because I think of that is kind of having to compete with the M&A side given the uncertainties and the longer time frame.

How is exploration spending kind of keeping up with the overall spending reductions adjusted for efficiencies and all that? Is it going to remain a similar percentage of total CapEx? Does it need to decline in this environment? Just curious which direction you are going to go there.

JEFF WOODBURY: Think about it as being more opportunity driven. It is a function of the opportunities, the maturity of our resource assessments and the appropriate timing to make the investment within our obligations to the resource owner.

ROGER READ: No percentages (laughter)?

JEFF WOODBURY: I mean nothing to quantify. I mean it is a very large and extensive resource base that we are pursuing. But I will again remind you that it is solely focused on how it can high-grade our existing portfolio.

So after we have done the assessments and we have a better handle on what the prospect potential is, it has got to be able to compete before we'll spend any more money there.

ROGER READ: All right, appreciate it. Thank you.

OPERATOR: John Herrlin, Societe Generale.

JOHN HERRLIN, ANALYST, SOCIETE GENERALE: Two quick ones. How is Kearl going?

JEFF WOODBURY: Well thanks for asking, John. I mean Kearl is moving along very nicely. As you heard we got the Kearl expansion started up ahead of schedule. It has been -- all the learnings have been fully integrated into the expansion project. It is ramping up quicker than initial development. And through the quarter we produced in excess of 180,000 barrels a day gross. And I will tell you that we have produced over the 220 design.

JOHN HERRLIN: Okay, great. Next one and last one for me is you are seeing a lot of your IOC brethren kind of reduce their risk profiles and I think other people were kind of getting this. Are you at all worried in terms of your global portfolio or the world as a global portfolio of having fewer potential partners for these large-scale projects going forward? Or is this an advantage because you execute well?

JEFF WOODBURY: Well, I think a couple thoughts there. One is that clearly we are in the risk management business. There is a lot of risks that we deal with. One of them being the geopolitical risks. Another one being the economic risk associated with many multi-year investment programs on these big multibillion-dollar investments.

I wouldn't say that we are seeing a back off on interest by our typical partners in these type of investments. I would say that there is clearly a desire for us to continue to be in a leadership role in a lot of these big investments. We think we have demonstrated our credibility and I think that plays well not only with the resource owner but with the industry as a whole.

JOHN HERRLIN: Great, thanks, Jeff.

OPERATOR: Guy Baber, Simmons.

GUY BABER, ANALYST, SIMMONS & COMPANY: I wanted to talk a little bit about North America unconventional. But you have highlighted efficiency gains this year have been significant and the benefits from technology improvement. You obviously have a broad perspective across various plays in the Bakken, Woodford, Permian and your gas plays.

So could you just talk a little bit about which specific play you see the greatest potential for continued efficiency gains and technology application? Really just trying to get some differentiated thoughts by play in the US in terms of what the current view might be and maybe how that has evolved over the last year or so.

JEFF WOODBURY: It is a really good question, Guy. And particularly the way you ended your question because it has truly evolved over the last several years. Our prominent acreage holdings are in the Bakken, Permian and the Woodford. I would tell you that we are very, very excited about all those opportunities.

Clearly the Bakken is more advanced in terms of its development, although I would also say that we continue to capture additional cost and productivity improvements in the Bakken. The Permian has got multiple reservoir objectives and I think that presents a unique opportunity to further optimize the value probably more so than the Bakken. And the Woodford is very early stages and it is really hard to compare and contrast at this point.

But in summary, rather than saying one is better than the other, I would tell you that they are all very exciting, they are all a very important part of our portfolio and have significant value uplift potential for us in the future.

GUY BABER: Okay, great, Jeff. And then last one for me. The international downstream business performance was very impressive obviously, but you earned more this quarter than all of last year combined.

Can you talk about the fundamental margin outlook going forward for refining, particularly internationally? But we have been surprised by the strength of that market this year. And maybe the same for chemicals just given those businesses have done such a tremendous job this year of offsetting the weakness in oil prices so it is important.

JEFF WOODBURY: Yes. Well, as you know, broadly speaking I mean refining margins are really a function of product demand and available refining capacity. Not only new capacity adds but also rationalization of capacity in regions that have excess capacity.

We do not provide a forward look on margins, but I would say that, particularly in the non-US you have seen really good strength in Europe, Asia and very similar to the US driven by MOGAS. I think the results really underscore the strength of our integrated portfolio.

GUY BABER: Thanks for the comments, Jeff.

OPERATOR: With no further questions in the queue I would like to turn the call back over to Mr. Woodbury for any additional or closing remarks.

JEFF WOODBURY: Well, to conclude I again thank you all for your time and your questions. A very interesting period right now. I think you can see from ExxonMobil's performance that we continue to meet both our operating and our investment commitments.

We are very focused on the fundamentals. We have always been focused on the fundamentals and we have seen that as being a very important element on the success of this Corporation. So, thanks for your questions this morning and we do appreciate your interest in ExxonMobil.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude today's conference. Thank you all for joining.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
exxn : Exxon Mobil Corporation
   IN
i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1300003 : Crude Petroleum Extraction | iextra : Natural Gas/Oil Extraction
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Financial Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020151031ebau0063i
  


 HD
 Q2  2015  Exxon  Mobil Corp Earnings Call - Final
   WC
11,263 words
   PD
31 July 2015
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©015 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day, everyone, and welcome to the ExxonMobil Corporation second-quarter 2015 earnings conference call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time I'd like to turn the call over to the Vice President of Investor Relations and Secretary, Mr. Jeff Woodbury. Please go ahead, sir.

   TD
JEFF WOODBURY, VP OF IR AND SECRETARY, EXXONMOBIL CORPORATION: Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, good morning, and welcome to ExxonMobil's second-quarter earnings call and webcast. My comments this morning will refer to the slides that are available through the investors section of our website. Before we go further I'd like to draw your attention to our cautionary statement shown on slide 2.

Now turning to slide 3, let me begin by summarizing the key headlines of our performance. ExxonMobil generated earnings of $4.2 billion in the second quarter. We are delivering on our investment and operating commitments across our integrated portfolio. The Corporation's results demonstrate sound operations, superior project execution capabilities, and continued discipline in both capital and expense management.

Downstream and chemical earnings increased significantly from the second quarter of 2014, driven by higher margins, continued strong demand, and the quality of our product and asset mix. Upstream production volumes of 4 million oil equivalent barrels per day were 3.6% higher compared to a year-ago quarter, and liquids volumes were up nearly 12%. Growth was underpinned by an increased level of new development start-ups over the last 18 months, largely in Africa, Canada, Indonesia, Papua New Guinea, and the United States. These results underscore the resilience of our integrated portfolio, and the benefits of our disciplined capital allocation. In the first half of 2015, the Corporation generated cash flow from operations and asset sales of $17.9 billion, with free cash flow remaining positive despite challenging market conditions.

Moving to slide 4, we provide an overview of some of the external factors affecting our results. Global economic growth improved in the second quarter of 2015. The US rebounded after contracting slightly in the first quarter. Europe improved marginally, amid concerns on Greece. China's economy stabilized, while Japan's growth tapered. Crude oil prices partly recovered during the quarter, while natural gas prices declined further. Refining margins continue to strengthen in both the US and Europe. Chemical commodity margins also improved, while specialty margins weakened.

Turning now to the financial results, as shown on slide 5. As indicated, second-quarter earnings were $4.2 billion, which represents $1 per share. The Corporation distributed $4.1 billion to shareholders in the quarter through dividends and share purchases to reduce shares outstanding. Of that total, $1 billion was used to purchase shares. CapEx was $8.3 billion which is in line with plans. We have remained focused on structural improvements through capital efficiency, as well as the capture of additional cost savings in a softer market. Cash flow from operations and asset sales was $9.4 billion, and at end of the quarter, cash totaled $4.4 billion, and debt was $33.8 billion.

The next slide provides additional detail on sources and uses of funds. Over the quarter, cash decreased from $5.2 billion to $4.4 billion. Earnings adjusted for depreciation expense, changes in working capital and other items, and our ongoing growing asset management program, yielded $9.4 billion of cash flow from operations and asset sales. Uses included net investments in the business of $7.1 billion, and shareholder distributions of $4.1 billion. Debt and other financing increased cash by $1 billion. Share purchases to reduce shares outstanding are expected to be $500 million in the third quarter of 2015.

Moving onto slide 7 for a review of our segmented results, ExxonMobil's second-quarter earnings of $4.2 billion were down $4.6 billion from a year-ago quarter. Lower upstream earnings were partially offset by stronger downstream and chemical results. Gains on asset sales were $1.2 billion lower than the second quarter of 2014, reflecting the absence of the Hong Kong power and Canadian asset divestments in the upstream segment. I'll also note that our corporate effective tax rate was 45%, up 4 percentage points compared to the year ago quarter, and up 12 percentage points sequentially. This higher tax rate reflects the relative mix of income across geographies and tax regimes, as well as a one-time increase in the corporate income tax rate in Alberta, Canada.

In the sequential quarter comparison shown on slide 8, earnings decreased by $750 million, as lower upstream and downstream earnings were partly offset by higher chemical results. Guidance for corporate and financing expenses remains at $500 million to $700 million per quarter.

Now turning to the upstream financial and operating results, starting on slide 9. Upstream earnings in the second quarter were $2 billion, down $5.9 billion from the second quarter of 2014. Sharply lower realizations decreased earnings by $4.5 billion, where crude declined by almost $46 per barrel, and gas was down almost $2.40 per thousand cubic feet. Note that favorable volume and mix effects increased earnings $330 million, driven by production growth on our new developments. All other items were negative $1.7 billion, and this was driven by the absence of divestment gains from Hong Kong Power and western Canadian assets, which represented $1.6 billion. Also the higher income tax rate in Alberta, Canada, resulted in a negative $260 million non-cash deferred tax adjustment. Lower operating costs provided a partial offset.

Moving to slide 10, oil equivalent production increased 139,000 barrels per day, or 3.6% compared to the second quarter of last year. Liquids production increased 243,000 barrels per day, or nearly 12%, benefiting from new projects, work programs, and favorable entitlement impacts. Natural gas production decreased 622 million cubic feet per day, or 5.8%, driven by regulatory restrictions in the Netherlands. Volume adds from the Papua New Guinea LNG and Hadrian South projects, along with entitlement effects, offset field decline.

Now turning to sequential comparison, starting on slide 11. Upstream earnings were $824 million lower in the first quarter. Realizations increased earnings by $600 million, as crude was up almost $11 per barrel, while gas declined about $1 per thousand cubic feet. Unfavorable volume and mix effects decreased earnings by $420 million, driven by lower seasonal gas demand in Europe, regulatory constraints in the Netherlands, and maintenance in the US. All other items reduced earnings by $1 billion, mainly driven by unfavorable tax and foreign exchange effects, and lower gains from asset sales. Upstream unit profitability for the second quarter was $5.77 per barrel, excluding the impact of non-controlling interest volumes. Earnings per barrel for the first half of 2015 was $6.74.

Moving to slide 12, sequentially, volumes were down 269,000 oil equivalent barrels per day, or 6.3%. Liquids production increased 14,000 barrels per day on new project growth and work programs, partly offset by maintenance, entitlement effects, and field decline. Natural gas production was down 1.7 billion cubic feet per day, driven by lower seasonal demand in Europe and regulatory constraints in the Netherlands.

Moving now to the downstream financial and operating results starting on slide 13. Downstream earnings for the quarter were $1.5 billion, up $795 million compared to the second quarter of 2014. Higher margins increased earnings by $1.1 billion. Volume and mix effects decreased earnings by $80 million. All other items reduced earnings by $230 million, driven by higher maintenance activities.

Turning to slide 14, sequentially downstream earnings decreased $161 million. Stronger refining margins, mainly in the US, increased earnings by $140 million, whereas higher maintenance activities reduced volumes, and increased expenses by $160 million and $140 million, respectively.

Moving now to the chemical financial and operating results, starting on slide 15. Second-quarter chemical earnings were more than $1.2 billion, up $405 million versus the prior-year quarter. Our margins increased earnings by $340 million. Favorable volume and mix effects added $20 million. All other items increased earnings by $50 million, mainly due to asset management gains, partly offset by unfavorable foreign exchange effects.

Moving to slide 16, sequentially, chemical earnings increased by $264 million. Lower margins decreased earnings by $10 million, positive volume and mix effects increased earnings by $40 million. All other items added $230 million, as asset management gains were partly offset by higher maintenance.

Moving next to an update on our exploration and project activities on slide 17. We continued to focus on pursuing a diverse set of high-quality resource opportunities. In Guyana, ExxonMobil made a significant oil discovery on the 6.6 million acre Stabroek Block, a well which was drilled approximately 120 miles offshore encountered more than 295 feet of high-quality oil bearing sandstone reservoirs. We are encouraged by these results and we are assessing commercial viability of the resource, as well as evaluating additional potential on the block.

In Romania, drilling continues in the deep-water Neptune block, with five wells drilled to date. The potential for commercial development will be assessed after completion of the drilling program. In the Kurdistan region of Iraq, drilling activities on the Al-Qush block are underway, and are anticipated to finish later this year.

Turning now to a status update on our new development projects, in Canada, the Kearl expansion projects started up ahead of schedule in June, and is currently producing more than 100,000 barrels of bitumen per day. Base development of the Kearl resource enabled us to draw significant learnings from the initial development project and capture lower capital costs and operating efficiencies. Total Kearl production averaged 130,000 barrels per day in the second quarter, and is ultimately expected to reach 220,000 barrels per day.

Erha North Phase 2 in Nigeria is another example of a capital efficient development. This subsea project utilizes existing processing facilities, and avoids the need for an additional FPSO vessel. Deep water drilling and subsea equipment installation are progressing, with start-up expected later this year. And at the Banyu Urip development in Indonesia, we continue to experience favorable well performance, and production is now more than 80,000 barrels per day. The central processing facility is expected to start up in the next few months, which will enable the project to reach peak production of more than 200,000 barrels per day by year end.

In the US, lower 48 onshore, we have maintained a measured investment program to unlock the value of more than 15 billion oil equivalent barrels. ExxonMobil is a leading producer onshore, and the largest producer in the United States. Through our XTO affiliate, we operate on all-major US unconventional oil and gas plays. Longer term, gas investment is paced with anticipated demand growth. Whereas near-term emphasis is on the development of 2.4 million net acres in the liquids-rich Bakken, Permian, and Woodford Ardmore Marietta, where investment opportunities remain attractive in today's price environment.

Net production in these three areas was about 240,000 oil equivalent barrels per day in the second quarter, up more than 20% from the second quarter of last year. Throughout the commodity price cycle, ExxonMobil has a relentless focus on reducing costs and improving efficiency in our operations, while maintaining high operational integrity. We regularly assess our performance relative to competitors and strive to be best in class. So as this chart illustrates, our efforts deliver results. XTO is a leader in exploration and development costs per barrel of proved reserves added, just one metric of many that are considered.

This position is enabled by our disciplined and measured approach to resource development, deployment of proprietary technologies, and our intense focus on efficiency and productivity. We have also demonstrated the capability to respond quickly in a rapidly changing environment, and to date have captured incremental savings of about 30% in drilling and completion costs from the peak in 2014. These savings include marked benefits, as well as ongoing structural cost efficiencies and productivity improvements across our operations.

So I'd like to conclude this morning's comments with a summary of our year to date performance. In short, the corporation is delivering on its investment and operating commitments. Through mid-year, ExxonMobil earned $9.1 billion, benefiting from our integrated business, which captures value throughout the commodity price cycle, as demonstrated by our downstream and chemical results. In the upstream, production increased to 4.1 million oil equivalent barrels per day, up almost 3% year on year, and it remains in line with our plans. Volume contributions from successful new developments underscore our superior project execution capabilities and reputation as a reliable operator. Our operational results combined with continued capital discipline generated cash flow from operations in asset sales of $17.9 billion, and free cash flow of $3.9 billion.

Our commitment to our shareholders remains strong, as the corporation distributed $8 billion to shareholders through mid-year. So regardless of industry conditions, we remain focused on what we control, and are driven to create shareholder value through the cycle. That concludes my prepared remarks, and I would now be happy to take your questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions)

We'll go to Phil Gresh with JPMorgan.

PHIL GRESH, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: First question I just wanted to ask on the CapEx, what your latest thoughts are for the budget for this year, and then as we look ahead, post 2015, at the analyst day, you said sub $34 billion. That, too was a bit vague. A lot of your peers have been talking about reducing their sustaining capital costs as you look ahead. So I just wanted to get any thoughts from you about perhaps where CapEx could go over the next few years, if you have any updates?

JEFF WOODBURY: Sure. I tell you that we have no new guidance on our -- so our CapEx guidance for 2015 remains at $34 billion. But having said that, given our ongoing focus on capital efficiency and the very successful capture of market savings in the current business climate, I think it is fair to say that there is a downward vector on that number, and that type of focus and efficiency will be carried on into the subsequent years. Having said that, I also note that we continued to invest in the business, and we have a very attractive inventory of high-quality opportunities. And given the financial flexibility we've got, we can garner some real benefits during the down cycle in a softer market environment.

PHIL GRESH: Sure, okay. Second question is on the acquisition environment. It seemed like others have been asking about the bid-ask spread starting to improve a bit here. Maybe you can just talk about what you're seeing, or any attractive opportunities starting to pop up on your radar screen? And more broadly as you think about the portfolio, are there places where you think inorganically you'd like to shift the mix over time? I'm specifically thinking about short cycle.

JEFF WOODBURY: Well, just broadly speaking on acquisition or what we like to say is asset management, I characterize it for us as business as normal. We always keep alert to value opportunities, not only to pick up what we believe is strategic and high-value opportunities, but looking for means to create greater value from our existing portfolio. So we keep alert. In terms of what we would target, if you step back and think about the diversity of our resource base, we're very well covered across all of the resource types. We're always interested in expanding those positions, or further high-grading them.

So I wouldn't suggest that as we consider opportunities for picking up additional assets, that we're focused in one area or the other. We're always looking for high-grading the portfolio. And Phil, that also includes our exploration program. It is designed to identify higher value opportunities to be added to the resource base, or maybe to displace what we see as -- not as relatively significant as the exploration program can add to.

PHIL GRESH: Okay, thanks, Jeff.

OPERATOR: Next we'll go to Doug Legate with Bank of America, Merrill Lynch.

DOUG LEGGATE, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Thanks, Doug, good morning, everybody. Good morning, Jeff. Sorry, my line cut out after a minute, so I hope this question hasn't been asked already. But there's two things I wanted to hit this morning, Jeff, if I may. The first one is on tax. I'm trying to understand the extent of the -- I guess the mess on the international Imperial that you're looking at anyway. And we're noting what Imperial did with their tax charge related to the change in the Canadian tax regime. I wonder if you could address that issue first, and I have a follow-up, please.

JEFF WOODBURY: So if you look at our tax in the second quarter of 2015, relative to 2014, we're up just over 3%. I'd say that about 5% of that were associated with one-time tax items, the largest piece being the Alberta tax that I mentioned in my prepared comments. The rest of the closure on that, down about 1%, is really do you dew to the portfolio mix of income across various business segments and geographies. If you look sequentially, Doug, we're up almost 12%. And again, the mix effect adds about a 6% increase. And the one-time items add about 6%, 4% due to the Alberta tax increase and then just under 2% associated with the absence of the first-quarter UK tax rate change.

DOUG LEGGATE: In absolute terms, Jeff, order of magnitude, it looks to us like somewhere around $0.10 or $0.12 in the quarter of non-recurring non-cash. Does that sound about right?

JEFF WOODBURY: Say a little bit more, Doug, on how you're coming up with that.

DOUG LEGGATE: So I think the $320 million was what Imperial took, that alone is $0.08 a share, right?

JEFF WOODBURY: Well, the Alberta as I said, in my prepared comments, Doug was about $260 million. ExxonMobil's share.

DOUG LEGGATE: Okay. All right, fair enough. I'll go back and look at that. My follow-up is really on the downstream. Obviously, I realize for commercial reasons you don't want to talk about Torrance explicitly, but when you look at the results that other west coast operators have had, and the relatively weak US downstream that you had, it strikes me that you probably have some -- there's probably some merit in giving us some idea what the likelihood of Torrance coming back online is, without the additional cost of importing gasoline and so on. So to the best that you can at this point, Jeff, can you give us an order of magnitude in terms of timing as to when you expect Torrance to get back to where it ought to be?

JEFF WOODBURY: Yes, first, if I could, Doug, just to comment on your statement about a relatively weak downstream in the second quarter. Now, I'd first say that we've seen significant margin improvement relative to last year. Second, as I commented on, we did have a very heavy maintenance period in the second quarter of 2015, and that had the downward impacts that I referenced in my prepared comments.

In terms of Torrance, I think you probably know, Doug, that some of the units are finally operational at reduced rates. We are producing gasoline by importing components and blending with refinery production. I'd also say we're also producing distillates. We are progressing repair of the electrostatic precipitator, as well as pursuing interim options. It is difficult to provide you a time at this point, given the definition work that's underway, as well as the regulatory review that's underway. As we get closer to defining that timeline, we'll look for an opportunity to share that broadly.

DOUG LEGGATE: I appreciate it, Jeff, at least taking a stab at the answer. Thanks, Jeff.

OPERATOR: We'll go next to Blake Fernandez with Howard Weil.

BLAKE FERNANDEZ, ANALYST, HOWARD WEIL INCORPORATED: Good morning, Jeff. Question for you on the gas volumes, which were fairly weak. I think you pointed out in the press release, 622 million cubic feet down year-over-year. Could you highlight the Netherlands component of that, and maybe give us an update of, for one, what contribution the Netherlands had in that decline, and maybe some timing or outlook on when that may come back?

JEFF WOODBURY: Yes, the Netherlands was, as you could appreciate, a large component of that. It was about 600 million in the second quarter relative to the prior year, prior quarter.

BLAKE FERNANDEZ: Okay. And any thoughts on when that may return to market?

JEFF WOODBURY: Well, the Netherlands on a quarter-over-quarter basis was also with the regulatory restrictions that the government has placed on the asset. And that will return over time, but it's going to be a constrained cap on what we can produce from the resource.

BLAKE FERNANDEZ: Okay, fair enough. The second question for you, on slide 11, you highlighted some of the sequential decline. I guess, I know the benchmarks were up, I know you've got some issues with tax and whatnot, but that $1 billion waterfall other category, can you kind of highlight what is in there besides tax, and then also if you could maybe highlight some of the LNG impacts? I know pricing got fairly weak this quarter.

JEFF WOODBURY: So on the $1 billion other component, and this is the sequential comparison. About 60% of that had to do with tax. 15% or so was ForEx. And the rest is a number of other puts and takes. On your comment about LNG, let me just broadly say that our natural gas realizations had a negative effect of about $300 million. So to square that with the $600 million increase in realizations, we had about $900 million positive due to liquids, and $300 million due to negative gas realizations.

BLAKE FERNANDEZ: Perfect, thanks, Jeff.

OPERATOR: We'll go next to Evan Calio with Morgan Stanley.

EVAN CALIO, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: A follow-up on CapEx and the down cycle approach. Your peers appear, or at least they're more vocal in cost-cutting and laying off employees, increasing asset sales, and reducing the forward CapEx guidance to close their funding gaps. While almost existential upstream struggle. So your release and call has been different. Is that just stylistic or does it mean a different approach by Exxon through the down cycle? Any comments there?

JEFF WOODBURY: No, I would stack back up and just talk fundamentally, culturally, the organization is designed to constantly focus on capital efficiency and cost management, okay? What we are looking for always, Evan, is to drive the cost structure down in the business. Okay? And when we have a down cycle like we're seeing right now, we further are well positioned to quickly lead that cost curve in capturing market savings. Now, on top of that, we've got that financial flexibility to invest through the cycle. And that does very much, very well, position us to capture those market savings in the down cycle. So in short I'd say it is a -- it's a focus, regardless of where we are in the cycle.

Likewise on staffing. You mentioned comments about staffing. First and foremost, I want to highlight that our people are our greatest asset. And they really drive the success of this Company. Therefore, we take a very measured approach to managing our head count, given the cyclical nature of the business, and the need for us to be ever more productive. And in doing so, we keep an unrelenting focus on capturing organizational efficiencies to keep the organization right-sized. Again given the likelihood of business volatility.

So if you look at our employee head count it has been coming down consistently since the merger of Exxon and Mobil, when we were at about 125,000 employees, today we're at just over 80,000 employees. And you may recall during the analyst meeting that the Chairman talked about some of this, and he gave some examples, by the way of steps that we have taken well in advance of the down cycle in order to do exactly what the numbers are depicting.

EVAN CALIO: Right. And your CapEx appears to be trending at least below guidance so far this year. My follow-up on the down stream and maybe as it relates to the US upstream, can you discuss like if crude transfer pricing assumptions between North American upstream and refining? It would appear that on refining results that may not be entirely market-based, understating our finding and transferring some of that to your upstream? Any color there would be helpful, thank you.

JEFF WOODBURY: Yes, it is very much market-based. As you know, that our integrated sites have the capability to run a very, very wide range of feedstocks. I can't get into specific pricing at all. But we have very competitive capacity within the US, we're the largest in the Gulf Coast and mid-continent. As you know, our capacity is greater than our overall US production, so we're also out there picking up supplies that meet our system's needs.

Our mid-continent and Gulf Coast refineries have increased the processing of advantaged North American crudes. Currently about 45% of the slate was North American in 2011, and currently we're at about 70% in 2014. The key point I want to emphasize with you is that we get intrinsic value, given the integration of our operations between upstream, downstream, and the chemical business. Allowing us to really focus on optimizing the molecule, the value of the molecule.

EVAN CALIO: Understood Thanks for the color.

OPERATOR: Ed Westlake with Credit Suisse has our next question.

ED WESTLAKE, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Is this just a philosophical question. Jeff, you've got a great balance sheet, and you've just reduced the buyback. Are you worried about the future deterioration in cash flows due to the macro? Is this just a position that's just made quarter to quarter without thinking about the implications? I know people are chattering in the market this morning, that you're trying to conserve cash for M&A. Maybe just a comment there, and I've got a detailed comment on the results.

JEFF WOODBURY: You know, Ed, we just go back to, fundamentally our business plans and our investment strategy comes from the perspective on the long-term that we share with you all in our energy outlook. That's what really sets our business strategy, and our investment outlook. Now stepping back from that, we maintain a very robust balance sheet, as you say, and we have the significant inventory investment opportunities, over 90 billion barrels of high-quality resource, a very strong inventory of downstream and chemical opportunities. But we manage the cash flow, looking at the current business climate as well as the future outlook, and we have a high degree of confidence in what we expect supply and demand to do in the future. Fundamentally, we're committed to our shareholders to continue to provide a reliable and growing dividend. And I think the continued buyback is evidence of the confidence that we have in an integrated business model.

ED WESTLAKE: You mentioned the LNG impact, which was helpful. Obviously, Asia LNG prices might come in the spot market particularly, not contract come under a bit of pressure as all of these Australian projects try and fight their way into market, and they all have commission and cargoes with some spot with them. Can you sort of give us a sense of how much flexibility in the overall contract structure your customers have to say we're going to take minimum amount of volumes to maximize our advantage to take some of the perhaps the cheapest spot cargoes that are available? I'm just trying to get a sense of is there a little bit of the margin of price risk and volume risk, even to your sort of existing LNG business, and it's fine for you to say no, there's not a big risk. That could just be the answer.

JEFF WOODBURY: Yes, sure. I just remind you that a majority of our LNG is under long-term contract.

ED WESTLAKE: Yes.

JEFF WOODBURY: So we have very little spot risk, and we've got diversion capabilities in the existing contracts, to allow us to capture a greater value if it's there.

ED WESTLAKE: So if Asia says no, you can put it into Europe, or do something else from the middle east. Yes.

JEFF WOODBURY: Okay?

ED WESTLAKE: Thanks.

OPERATOR: We'll go next to Neil Mehta with Goldman Sachs.

NEIL MEHTA, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: So it's pretty clear that there's a path to grow production through 2017 with some of these large capital projects that you talked about, and seeing indications of production growth here in 2015. One of the questions investors frequently ask is how does Exxon grow production post-2017, which we'll probably get some line of sight on at the next analyst day when you roll forward past 2017, but any initial color about how you think about growth, especially if the forward curve proves correct post-2017 would be valuable.

JEFF WOODBURY: Thanks, Neil. I'd say, first and foremost, just step back a moment and remind everybody that based on that very sizeable high-quality resource base that I've been talking about, we have had a very significant upstream investment program in place now for an extended period of time. Where by from 2012 to 2017, we had committed to our shareholders to bring on 32 high-quality long-life assets. We're about halfway through that, in terms of starting them up. We had a very substantial tranche of them starting up in 2014 with eight. This year we have another seven starting up. As you go into 2016, 2017, we've got the rest of them coming on.

The information that we had shared back in the analyst meeting, we would grow capacity by about 1.1 million oil barrels per day. And recognizing that those projects starting up in 2017 were just at the early stages, they would ramp up into 2018 and thereafter. We also, shared Neil, in our F&O review the list of projects that we've got on the table right now for 2018 forward. These are all in different stages of progress. Some are in development planning, some are in feed. But that is the list that we are working on to bring to an FID decision.

Some of these, we're working to further optimize in the current price environment. Some may have some opportunities to enhance the commercial terms. But as we get closer to, FID decisions, we'll signal where we are. As you indicated we'll provide a -- another update in March of next year, which will take us beyond the 2017 horizon.

But all that said, I want to reinforce that we've got this very robust inventory of investment opportunities, and I don't want to focus just on the upstream. The downstream and chemical business as well. And that positions us well to be very selective on what we want to progress and when we want to progress it. And it gives us the capability on those other assets or investment opportunities, to keep working them to make sure that we're capturing the greatest value from it.

NEIL MEHTA: Thanks, Jeff, and then the follow-up is on that point about chemicals. It was one of the few places in the quarter where we saw a real upside to our numbers. I just wanted you to talk about what you're seeing from the macro and the chemical space. Clearly, margins haven't compressed as much as some would have thought, given the move-down in Brent. And then how you're thinking about growing that business on a go-forward?

JEFF WOODBURY: Yes, so just broadly speaking, as you can appreciate, there are structural differences in the chemical business. US natural gas, natural gas liquids provide for very strong margins and advantage polyethylene. In Europe, Asia Pacific, the liquids feeds, energy prices, have been hard. We were at the bottom of the cycle in Asia Pacific, but we saw in the first half, material improvement due to lower feed and energy costs. Specialty margins have declined over the past few years, with capacity additions exceeding demand growth, but demand growth remains robust.

So as we've said before, our long-term business, we have a positive outlook for global demand expecting to exceed GDP by about 1.5%. Or said another way, growing by more than 50% over the next ten years, of which about two-thirds of that will be in Asia. So very well positioned to participate, as you see. We're making some important investments, like the expansion of Baytown. That allows us to continue to participate in the high-value polyethylene market, given the low feed costs we have here in North America.

NEIL MEHTA: Thank you, Jeff.

OPERATOR: We'll go next to Allen Good with Morningstar.

ALLEN GOOD, ANALYST, MORNINGSTAR: I appreciate the comments on the cost savings in the US lower 48. I wonder if you could offer up what Exxon is seeing as far as cost savings internationally for either projects under construction, or maybe some currently in the development phase, and maybe even offshore as well. Do you expect to capture similar cost savings there, and what would be some of the timing on that, relative to what you've seen so far in the US?

JEFF WOODBURY: I would tell you Allen that -- let me break it up between capital and expense. And to answer your question right now, yes, we are capturing cost savings across our global portfolio. On the cost side, I just want to keep on emphasizing, cost management is a fundamental driver in the success of our business. No doubt about it. And throughout that business cycle, our organization has a strong culture of driving down the cost structure, and then when we're in these down cycles, we expect to lead the cost curve and capture an additional market savings. So ongoing structure improvements and additional market savings in the down cycle.

So we're very well positioned. And one of the things that allows us to react very quick, as I mentioned last quarter, is that we've got a global procurement organization that is always focused on capturing the lowest life cycle cost. And they are absolutely critical in managing our overall cost structure. As you can appreciate Allen, savings vary significantly by region and type of service.

By way of example our base metals are down as much as 40%. Engineering services and construction labor is down 10%-plus. Rig rates are down across the board both land and floater, on floater, the day rates and mobilization costs are down anywhere from 25% to 40%. So we're well positioned to capture that both on the cost as well as the capital side.

ALLEN GOOD: Thanks. One more question, maybe a bit premature, but it's certainly made headlines of late. along with the Iran deal, it seems that some of your peers are becoming interested, I know there's been some headlines suggesting Exxon is, as well. What would you need to see in Iran as far as milestones, before you'd potentially become interested in doing business there?

JEFF WOODBURY: Allen, I'd just say that we'll continue to monitor the circumstance. I want to be really clear that we'll remain in full compliance with existing sanctions. As you know, there are multiple sanctions that apply to US companies. That's all I can really say about that right now, Allen.

ALLEN GOOD: All right, thanks.

OPERATOR: We'll go next to Asit Sen with Cowen and Company.

ASIT SEN, ANALYST, COWEN AND COMPANY: Two questions, thanks for the additional color on the lower 48. I'm wondering if you could give us the breakdown in the production and rig activity by the three main unconventional plays, and talk about how you expect things tracking in the back half of the year?

JEFF WOODBURY: So really good growth there. From a net production basis, as I said, we're producing about 240,000 barrels a day. Over 20% increase quarter-on-quarter versus the prior year. Permian is about 120,000 barrels of that, Bakken just over 80,000 barrels, and Woodford is about 40,000 barrels.

ASIT SEN: And rig activity, please?

JEFF WOODBURY: Yes, so our rig counts have come down just a little bit from the first quarter. We're down about 10 rigs. So we're currently running 34 rigs in those three plays. We've been able to continue to high-grade the activity. I think as we showed in the analyst meeting, we continue to capture both cost efficiencies and productivity improvements. A lot of what we learned in these plays are being quickly shared, to make sure that we're integrating all those learnings into our forward execution plans. But very pleased with the positions that we've got in those assets, and we've got a very sizeable inventory of drillable prospects.

ASIT SEN: So would you think that it would be upside to the incremental 2017 target? I think it was 150,000 barrels a day? Would you given efficiencies?

JEFF WOODBURY: Well, we're keeping a measured pace as I said previously. If you think back over the ups and downs, when everybody was really picking up a lot of rigs, we took a measured pace, and made sure that we were going at a pace that we can fully capture the benefits of the learnings that we were realizing. Likewise in the down cycle, our rig counts haven't come down as significantly as you see in the industry, because we've been able to capture those learnings. The economics of these investments are still robust. So I would give you a response of a measured pace that with a very attractive inventory of opportunities, that we'll keep moving forward and anticipate, as we showed in the analyst meeting, of growth in our unconventional liquids volumes.

ASIT SEN: And my second question is on LNG. Spot LNG market has been surprisingly strong, over $8 near term, would be 15% oil equivalent. Just wanted to get your thoughts on that. Is it seasonality or something else? And could you update on the demand pattern that you're seeing in Asia?

JEFF WOODBURY: I think broadly speaking, as you can appreciate, there's a lot that goes into this. As we've said, gas demand has grown at about 1.6% per year. LNG capacity will probably triple from 2010 to 2040. So you're seeing a general demand growth that's obviously underpinning realizations. There are a lot of other country-level dynamics like alternatives, nuclear power, fuel switching from coal to gas. All those variables really play into this 1.6% per year that I mentioned.

ASIT SEN: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Paul Cheng with Barclays has our next question.

PAUL CHENG, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Two questions if I could, if we're looking at your very sizeable total resource, which is over 90 billion barrels, do you have a rough estimate that -- what's the percentage of that resource base, Already passed through all the regulatory hurdle, and with today's technology will be able to produce and earn the 10% after tax internal rate of return, the $60 to $70 Brent price? Any color you can provide?

JEFF WOODBURY: Yes, I would tell you, I'd ask you to think about it differently, Paul, in that the resource base is in various stages of development planning. Some assets clearly, as I indicated previously to Neil, some of those assets are currently on the table right now in development planning and pre-feed. Some of the assets, our probable reserves, and our possible static resources are under various stages of development planning in order to ensure that we are defining the most attractive returns for those resources.

And some, we make it to the point, Paul, that we have a better alternative to monetize that, that may include divestment. But it's a dynamic resource base that is constantly being upgraded with new additions, pulling things out that we don't see as creating value for the corporation. And I'll give you one example, by way of illustration. You think about the sizeable Julia resource, and how we've optimized that to a much smaller initial development, in order to derisk the overall resource size, that's the type of optimization that I'm talking about, and based on that derisking, it will better position us on future investment opportunities.

PAUL CHENG: Yes, great. Second question, just some quick number. I think in a number of your statements that you have some asset sales gain, can you just give us what is the asset sales gain in the second quarter by segment, and a breakdown between US and the international? And also tell us what is the Kearl current production in phase 1 and phase 2 separately? Thank you.

JEFF WOODBURY: Yes, so in terms of the earnings impact from our asset sales in the second quarter, it was about $490 million. A majority of that, Paul, was in the chemical business. In terms of Kearl, in total as I said, is producing about 130,000 or in the second quarter it was producing about 130,000 barrels per day. The phase 1 or the initial development was around 100,000 barrels, and phase 2 was around 30,000 barrels.

PAUL CHENG: Jeff do you have the latest number in July in the last couple, maybe a week or so on Kearl?

JEFF WOODBURY: On Kearl? No, I don't have anything to share at this point.

PAUL CHENG: Okay, thank you.

OPERATOR: We'll go next to Roger Read with Wells Fargo.

ROGER READ, ANALYST, WELLS FARGO SECURITIES, LLC: I guess one question hasn't really been asked, I'd like to get out there. Oil prices this low, last time we had a sustained lower for longer situation, a lot of mergers in this space. I know you don't want to talk about anything specific, but as a general sort of commentary on maybe the bid-ask spread that's out there and the type of assets that might be interesting to Exxon, if you can give us any clarity on that?

JEFF WOODBURY: Yes, Roger, that was similar to an earlier question. As I said earlier, I would just say that we keep alert to where we've got value propositions. And the way I clarify that is bolt-on acquisitions that have natural synergies with our business, long-life assets that we think that our expertise and operating experience will bring intrinsic value associated with it, it's not focused on a specific resource type, but it's really focused on where we think that our unique experiences can add value, that others can't see.

ROGER READ: And on the bid-ask spread, if it's changed at all, if there's anything you can add there.

JEFF WOODBURY: Roger, I don't really have much to add on there. That's really a function of the transactions. Certainly, staying in a lower price environment is going to encourage both buyers and sellers to find closure.

ROGER READ: Okay, and as kind of the unrelated follow-up, in Guyana, the big discovery, is there any sort of timeline at all that we can be thinking about at this point for the next appraisal well, and if that goes, how we should think about some of the other things, including the, I guess border dispute with Venezuela, et cetera.

JEFF WOODBURY: Yes, well, as I said, we're certainly very encouraged by the first well. It is one well in a very, very large block. We are currently evaluating that well, and we're laying out, if you will, the plans moving forward. You can expect the intent for us to not only to further appraise the discovery, but pursue other opportunities on the block. I want to be clear though, that we follow all the laws within the host countries and international law, that we're operating on this block under license from the government of Guyana. And the border matters are really a function, or should stay with the governments to address through appropriate channels.

ROGER READ: Thank you.

OPERATOR: We'll go next to Ryan Todd with Deutsche Bank.

RYAN TODD, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Great, thanks, Jeff, maybe one follow-up on costs. I know you have talked about cost control efforts a couple times already, but maybe not on the CapEx side, but if we look on the OpEx side, or the expense side within the company, any -- a lot of your competitors have talked about percentages in terms of year-on-year decreases and OpEx, or targets in terms of absolute numbers that they think they can pull out of the business. Any guidance you can give us in terms maybe where your cost structure might be year on year, or how much you think you might be able to pull out on a relative to 2014 basis?

JEFF WOODBURY: Yes, obviously our objective is to make sure that we're capturing all those opportunities, both structural and market out there. And at the same time, ensuring that we maintain the high integrity of our operations. I think, Ryan, the ultimate measure here is our industry-leading unit cost performance, that we've seen over the last several years. And while it's still early, I don't want to go too far with this, we are seeing the unit cost on a downward trend year to date, almost 9% down from where we were last year. But that's about as far as I'll quantify at this point. Obviously, this is a key element to ensuring that we remain a leader in unit profitability as well.

RYAN TODD: Great, thank you. And maybe one question on LNG, and thoughts over on the business, we have had a number of questions on spot pricing and trends, but if you look at -- you've got a decent queue of potential development projects that could happen at some point over time. Can you talk about maybe what would be the threshold that you would need to move forward on some of these projects? Is it local permitting, is it an effort on reducing costs in the industry and getting costs down to a place that's competitive, is it a wide bid-ask spread between buyers and sellers right now? Any thoughts in general on, I guess, on your asset portfolio on LNG on the development side, and what you're seeing in the market?

JEFF WOODBURY: Sure. Broadly speaking, as you know, LNG is a key component of our portfolio, and it's an important part of our margin generation. As I said earlier, we've got a very good inventory, and included in that inventory is a number of LNG projects, and it's all based on our assessment, as I indicated, that gas will grow by about 1.6% per year between now and 2040, and more specifically, LNG demand will triple from 2010 to 2040. So that is the value proposition we're pursuing, we've got a number of projects moving forward concurrently. We're going to be very selective in what we'll invest in.

To your question about what does it take to make sure it goes forward, it's all the things you mentioned. It's making sure we got a competitive cost structure, that we've got stable, transparent fiscal terms to underpin a very capital intensive investment, and that's why we're progressing several of them at the same time. I would tell you that the brownfield type expansions are probably going to be the lowest cost LNG add. By way of example, our Papua New Guinea project, just a phenomenal outcome, started up ahead of schedule, very, very good reliability. Very well positioned to compete in an expansion, should we identify a sufficient resource.

Having the assets that we have in the US positions us very well. Alaska, West Coast of Canada continue to progress. Those opportunities will require more of what we were talking about, in terms of cost, in terms of fiscal terms. Regulatory environment. So in short, what I'd say, Ryan, is that the demand projections there, we've got the -- obviously we've got the capability to participate in that, and we're very well positioned, with a very good inventory of high-quality opportunities, to meet that demand growth.

RYAN TODD: Okay, thanks, Jeff.

OPERATOR: We'll go next to Brad Heffern with RBC Capital Markets.

BRAD HEFFERN, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Just looking at the downstream business, there have been a lot of press reports and/or regulatory filings about a potential substantial expansion of Beaumont. I was wondering if you could comment on that, provide any color around the thinking there?

JEFF WOODBURY: Yes, so just again, taking a portfolio look, Brad, we regularly evaluate our assets, our various business lines, for where we can grow earnings or optimize the long-term value of it. And in the downstream business, it's focused in the following areas: expanding our logistics, expanding our feed stock, reducing our overall cost structure, and importantly, increasing high-value product yields. You'll see that those -- one of those areas, or one or more of those areas, will underpin the investment projects that we have communicated, have been through FID such as the Antwerp investment. As it pertains to Beaumont, we typically assess those activities. I understand that there -- that may include some discussions with the regulators. It doesn't indicate that we've made a discussion, and when we get close to an FID, and we've made that decision, then we'll communicate that accordingly.

BRAD HEFFERN: Okay, understood. And then looking at California on the upstream side, I was curious what the impact during the quarter was, given the planned pipeline downtime, and what the outlook is there.

JEFF WOODBURY: Yes, so good question, Ryan. I mean as you all know, the Plains All American pipeline was down due to a failure of the line in the second quarter. We've looked for options to go ahead and keep our facility on, without that pipeline running, or until we're able to find an alternative export route. SYU will be shut down. Before it was shut down, it was producing somewhere around 30,000 barrels a day. In fact, that was a 2014 number. So we'll keep focused on it, we'll keep working with the regulator, as well as the All American pipeline to identify the earliest restart.

BRAD HEFFERN: Okay, thank you.

OPERATOR: We'll go next to Anish Kapadia with Tudor, Pickering, and Holt Company.

ANISH KAPADIA, ANALYST, TUDOR, PICKERING, HOLT & CO. SECURITIES: First question is just looking at some of the growth projects against for the post-28 scene, it seems to me like you're focused on three key areas, or themes if you like, which are getting a bit more challenged over the next few years. So when you look at international LNG, it seems to be a lot more competition coming in from domestic US LNG. When you look at your oil sands projects, they're relatively high cost impacted by potential carbon pricing, and higher taxes coming through. And then Nigeria, fairly a difficult political environment there, and tax uncertainty. Just wondering, given those are your key areas, how comfortable are you with those areas and the potential growth there?

JEFF WOODBURY: Anish, we're in the risk management business. Everything that we do has a level of risk that we've got to judge, whether it be geopolitical risk, economic risk, technical uncertainty, and that is the world we live in. And I think the organization has demonstrated over the years that it's got the expertise and the capability to take on these more challenging resources, and convert them into value propositions for our shareholders.

So the areas you talked about, take a look at Papua New Guinea LNG. No infrastructure. We were able to build that up to a very successful project that's going to supply an important part of LNG demand in the future. We have a good track record in all of these areas. We're very good at capturing the learnings and transporting those learnings into our future resource development activities, to make sure that we maximize return. And as I said to Paul earlier, if we don't see the value proposition there, we will find other ways to monetize that asset.

ANISH KAPADIA: Okay, great. And just a follow-on, in terms of your future projects, I'm just thinking, how would you think about delaying projects in an attempt to in this falling service price to capture low prices? Is that something that you're actively looking to do or will you just go ahead with the projects if it makes sense in terms of the economics in the moment?

JEFF WOODBURY: Well, remember, these projects that you referenced earlier are multi-year projects. They happen over a period of time. And we're looking for not only the market savings, but I'll stress again, the structural savings. And let me use an example of what I'm talking about. We went forward with both the [Kutandagi] and Hebron developments concurrently, because we saw a very consistent development option, and the tremendous benefit that we get by learning curve advantages.

So both JBS, we used a comparable design shop for both of them. We used the same JBS contractor. We used the same top side contractor, and we capture that immediate learning curve benefit. On top of that, in a lower price cycle, as I said earlier, we're very well-positioned with a global procurement organization to be first in line in capturing those market savings. And if, given our long-term investment and our expectation of what demand is going to do, we're very confident that over the timeframe, the things we're investing in today, some of them we won't see production on for five or ten years. We're very confident in our demand projections and our ability to turn that into accretive financial performance.

ANISH KAPADIA: Understood. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Paul Sankey with Wolfe Research.

PAUL SANKEY, ANALYST, WOLFE RESEARCH: When I hear what you're saying about costs and potential M&A, and knowing what you have said in the past about the Permian, it feels like that's the best opportunity for you to combine the overlap that you have with the potential to drive out costs. I think you've highlighted that it's a very fragmented zone. I would also think that the Bakken is similar. But you really don't have a lot in the Eagle Ford, so my assumption is that essentially the Permian would be the most attractive place for you, and then the Bakken, to take advantage of this low price environment?

JEFF WOODBURY: Paul, just broadly speaking, we keep focused globally, and we've got those type of opportunities in other countries that we'll naturally maintain a line of sight on, should the right value proposition come forward. And if you want to focus in the unconventionals, certainly. The ownership structure in the Permian by way of example, is very diverse. And where we can find natural synergies, over the last several years, we've made a number of bolt-on acquisitions that have increased our acquisition there. And you get value uplift when we're able to do that, where it's within our operational structure.

PAUL SANKEY: Yes, and I guess the operational structure is well suited, because of the XTO separate division you have, gives you the flexibility.

JEFF WOODBURY: That's correct.

PAUL SANKEY: One thing I'm worried about Jeff, is reserves replacement. Just insofar as I don't think you've had any FIDs this year. And I also noticed that your reserves booking last year were heavily dominated by the US. Could you update us on where we stand as regard to reserves replacement?

JEFF WOODBURY: Yes, well, obviously that's an annual process. And we're -- we've fully replaced our production for 21 straight years. We've got a very good inventory that we're working on, to convert to an FID decision in proved reserves, as well as a very active exploration program. So we've been very successful, as the history shows, and I'd say that the prognosis in the future will remain the same.

PAUL SANKEY: Jeff, do you know how many FIDs you had last year?

JEFF WOODBURY: Not off the top of my head, Paul. No.

PAUL SANKEY: I'll leave it there, thanks, Jeff. Thank you.

OPERATOR: We'll go next to Alastair Syme with Citi.

ALASTAIR SYME, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Jeff, thanks for your comments on operating costs earlier. Can you give us some sort of magnitude about how much of that 9% you might feel is natural deflation in the environment, like energy prices, and how much is your own cost management?

JEFF WOODBURY: Alastair, I'd just tell you that the organization wants to keep focused on the structural improvements as well as that market capture. Everything is under focus constantly, even when we're at $100 per barrel. But I don't have any specific numbers to break out on the benefit to date.

ALASTAIR SYME: Okay. And secondly, in the chemicals business, in this environment, you have seen much difference in the profitability between the base and derivative businesses?

JEFF WOODBURY: You know, remember it's all premised under very strong demand growth. And our investments are strategically placed, in order to make sure that we can compete competitively over that time frame. I think we're very, very well positioned in both the commodity and specialties markets.

ALASTAIR SYME: Okay, thanks very much.

OPERATOR: We'll go next to Guy Baber with Simmons & Company.

GUY BABER, ANALYST, SIMMONS & COMPANY INTERNATIONAL: Jeff, you highlighted on slide 18, lower 48 onshore F&D costs, best in class by substantial margin. I believe those costs have been declining in recent years, as well, and likely to continue to decline. I was just wondering if you could discuss how that positive trend for US lower 48 F&D compares to the trends that you're seeing internationally, and that you've seen in recent years, where it appears F&D for the industry has risen, considerably in some cases. So can you just discuss your thoughts on that divergence? What you're seeing, and also how that might influence capital allocation and strategy long-term? So specifically, does it lead you to believe you need to find a way to allocate more capital to the regions where you can most efficiently add reserves, which appears to be the US?

JEFF WOODBURY: I think it's an excellent question, Guy, because I think this is just one example of what we do across our whole global portfolio. I talked about, by way of another example, we've shown you the XTO example. In my prepared comments I talked about Erha North phase 2. Last quarter, I talked about the start-up of the [Kazama Satellites] phase 2. But that's another really good example, that instead of -- that we've sequenced the resource development in a manner that we can fully leverage a fixed investment over a period of time, and what that does is that lowers our overall cost structure. Our E&D costs globally.

And in a deepwater environment where we've got to be very careful that we've got very good execution plans, and that we execute flawlessly. So it's a very strong focus across the world, whether it's in the deepwater with the Kazama Satellites phase 2, and Erha north phase 2, or we're talking about the subarctic like in Kutandagi and Hebron, there is an ongoing emphasis to try to get that cost structure down. That's why I made the point earlier that this is something that we have to work 365 days a year. It's not driven by the price environment, it's driven by the need to be ever more productive and to compete in a market that there's a lot of investment dollars going in. So we keep the line of sight on where we've got cost opportunities.

GUY BABER: Thanks, Jeff. And last one for me, liquids production up 12% on the year, so obviously very impressive growth. Major projects ramping up. You get some PSE benefit obviously, but it also appears like you're showing growth in some areas where you don't have high-profile major projects. North Sea oil for example, but it appears that reliability uptime may be improving just across the portfolio. Is that an accurate observation? And center any detail you can provide of how the base level of production is performing, perhaps relative to expectations coming into the year? Because it seems to be doing better.

JEFF WOODBURY: It's another good question, and you may recall, back in the analyst presentation, we spent a little bit of time, the chairman showed a chart that tries to -- goes to quantify the volume add that we make, with our focus on reliability. We are making very significant gains on improving overall operating reliability, and I'll emphasize, not only in the upstream, but also across our manufacturing business as well. As we focus intensely on cost structure, we do the same on uptime and reliability. And really try to transfer those learnings quickly across the corporation, to make sure that once again, we're best in class.

GUY BABER: Thanks, Jeff.

OPERATOR: Our final question for today comes from John Herrlin with Societe Generale.

JOHN HERRLIN, ANALYST, SOCIETE GENERALE: Most things have been asked, Jeff, but you have seen a lot of your IOC peers, as well as some large cap E&Ps take significant impairments. You have a very robust resource base, as you've stated. Are there any issues for, say, intermediate term projects coming off the books on a long-term basis for Exxon?

JEFF WOODBURY: Well, there's two parts to your question. One is, if we've got resources that are in a resource base that ultimately we don't see the long-term value, as I indicated earlier, John, we will look for ways to monetize them, which may include some level of divestment. In terms specifically of impairments, as you know, we live in a commodity price environment that has great volatility. But as I've said several times in our annual outlook, the longer-term market fundamentals remain unchanged, and the lifespan of our assets really are measured in decades. Therefore, long-term price views are more stable, and quite frankly, more meaningful for future cash flows and market value. So we expect the business to more than recover the carrying value of the assets on the books. Obviously in the course of our ongoing asset management efforts, we do confirm that asset values fully cover carrying costs.

JOHN HERRLIN: Great, that's what I wanted to hear. One last one for me, which you probably won't answer, Guyana, insignificant, you want to attach a volume size to that?

JEFF WOODBURY: Yes, John, I think it's just too early. I look forward to that time that I can have more discussion about it, as well. But as I said John, one well in a 6.6 million acre block, it's a very good start. And just watch that space. There's more to be said there, I think.

JOHN HERRLIN: Okay, thanks very much, Jeff.

OPERATOR: With no further questions in the queue, I'd like to turn the call back to our host for any additional or closing remarks.

JEFF WOODBURY: Well, to conclude, again, I want to thank you for your time, and your very thoughtful and insightful questions this morning. We appreciate the opportunity to talk about the business, and really share the successes of our people that work day in and day out, to make sure that we're creating shareholder value. So thanks again, and we look forward to further discussion in the future.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude today's call. Thank you all for joining.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
exxn : Exxon Mobil Corporation
   IN
i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1300003 : Crude Petroleum Extraction | iextra : Natural Gas/Oil Extraction
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Financial Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020150801eb7v006hi
  


 HD
 Q1  2015  Exxon  Mobil Corp Earnings Call - Final
   WC
10,143 words
   PD
30 April 2015
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©015 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day, everyone, and welcome to this Exxon-Mobile Corporation first-quarter 2015 earnings conference call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time, I would like to turn the call over to the Vice President of Investor Relations and Secretary, Mr. Jeff Woodbury. Please go ahead, sir.

   TD
JEFF WOODBURY, VP OF IR & CORPORATE SECRETARY, EXXONMOBIL CORPORATION: Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning and welcome to Exxon-Mobile's first-quarter earnings call. My comments this morning will refer to the slides that are available through the Investors Section of our website. So before we go further, I'd like to draw your attention to our cautionary statement shown on slide 2.

Turning now to slide 3, let me begin by summarizing the key headlines for first-quarter performance. Exxon-Mobile delivered earnings of $4.9 billion. These solid financial results demonstrate the value of our integrated businesses in a lower commodity price environment. Regardless of our current market conditions, we remain focused on business fundamentals and competitive advantages that create long-term shareholder value. Upstream production volumes were more than 2% higher compared to a year-ago quarter, benefiting from new developments in Papua New Guinea, Canada, Angola, Indonesia, and US onshore liquids plays. Exxon-Mobile's downstream and chemical businesses had strong performance across all regions, driven by lower feedstock costs and improved demand, coupled with our competitive product and asset mix.

Moving to slide 4, we provide an overview of some of the external factors affecting our results. Global economic growth continued to moderate in the first quarter of 2015. US growth slowed relative to the fourth quarter, whereas China's economy decelerated further and growth in Europe and Japan remained weak; however, there are recent indications that growth may be improving, particularly in Europe. As you know, energy prices continued to decline in the quarter, leading to lower cost of supply in the downstream and stronger global refinery margins on higher demand. Meanwhile, chemical gas cracking margins softened on lower product realizations, but remain advantaged relative to liquids cracking.

Turning now to the financial results as shown on slide 5. As indicated, Exxon-Mobile's first-quarter earnings were $4.9 billion, which represents $1.17 per share. The Corporation distributed $3.9 billion to shareholders in the quarter through dividends and share purchases to reduce shares outstanding, and of that total, $1 billion was used to purchase shares. CapEx was $7.7 billion, which is in line with our plan. Cash flow from operations and asset sales was $8.5 billion, and at the end of the quarter, cash totaled $5.2 billion and debt was $32.8 billion.

The next slide provides additional detail on sources and uses of funds. Over the quarter, cash increased from $4.7 billion to $5.2 billion. Earnings, adjusted for depreciation expense, changes in working capital and other items, and our ongoing asset management program yielded $8.5 billion of cash flow from operations and asset sales. Uses included net investments in the business of $6.8 billion and shareholder distributions of $3.9 billion. Debt and other financing increased cash by $2.7 billion. Yesterday, the Board of Directors declared a cash dividend of $0.73 per share, a 5.8% increase from last quarter. Share purchases to reduce shares outstanding are expected to remain at $1 billion in the second quarter of 2015.

Moving on to slide 7 for a review of our segmented results, Exxon-Mobile's first-quarter earnings of $4.9 billion were at $4.2 billion lower than a year-ago quarter. Lower upstream earnings were partially offset by stronger downstream results.

In the sequential quarter comparison shown on slide 8, earnings decreased by $1.6 billion, as lower upstream and chemical earnings were partly offset by stronger downstream results. Corporate guidance -- guidance on corporate and financing expenses remain at $500 million to $700 million per quarter.

Turning now to upstream financial and operating results, starting on slide 9. Upstream earnings in the first quarter were $2.9 billion, down $4.9 billion from the first quarter of 2014. As you can see, sharply lower realizations decreased earnings by $5.5 billion, where crude declined by almost $54 per barrel and gas was down more than $2.60 per 1,000 cubic feet. Favorable volume and mix effects increased earnings $340 million, driven by growth from new developments. All other items added another $250 million, primarily due to favorable tax effects.

Moving now to slide 10, oil equivalent production increased 97,000 barrels per day, or 2.3%, compared to the first quarter of last year. Liquids production increased 129,000 barrels per day, or 6%, benefiting from new projects, work programs, and favorable entitlement impacts, partly offset by maintenance activities. Natural gas production decreased 188 million cubic feet per day, or 1.6%. Field decline and divestment impacts were partly offset by volume adds for Papua New Guinea LNG and higher entitlements.

Turning now to the sequential comparison starting on slide 11. Upstream earnings were $2.6 billion lower than the fourth quarter. Realizations decreased earnings by $2.4 billion, as crude declined almost $22 per barrel and gas decreased more than $1.20 per 1,000 cubic feet. Favorable volume and mix effects improved earnings by $260 million, driven by higher LNG facility utilization, entitlement impacts, and growth from new developments. All other items reduced earnings by $500 million, reflecting lower benefits from tax items and absence of the Venezuela ICC award, partly offset by lower operating costs.

Now moving to slide 12. Sequentially, volumes were up 194,000 oil equivalent barrels per day, or 4.8%. Liquids production increased 95,000 barrels per day on new project growth and entitlement effects, partly offset by field decline. Natural gas production was up 594 million cubic feet per day, driven by stronger seasonal demand in Europe and higher LNG facility utilization, partly offset by field decline.

Moving now to the downstream financial and operating results, starting on slide 13. Downstream earnings for the quarter were $1.7 billion, an increase of $854 million compared to the first quarter of 2014. Higher refining and marketing margins increased earnings by $1 billion. Positive volume and mix effects added another $70 million, and all other items decreased earnings by $260 million, including higher maintenance activities and unfavorable foreign exchange effects.

Now turning to slide 14. Sequentially, first-quarter downstream earnings were up $1.2 billion. Stronger global refining margins increased earnings by $900 million, while unfavorable volume and mix effects reduced earnings by $70 million. All other items added $340 million, primarily from lower expenses and maintenance activities.

Moving now to the chemical, financial, and operating results starting on slide 15. First-quarter chemical earnings were $982 million, down $65 million versus the prior-year quarter. Higher margins on lower feedstock and energy costs increased earnings by $240 million. Favorable volume and mix effects added another $30 million, and all other items reduced earnings by $340 million, mainly due to unfavorable foreign exchange effects.

Moving now to slide 16. Sequentially, chemical earnings decreased by $245 million on lower commodity product margins. Positive volume and mix effects were more than offset by other impacts.

Moving next to the first-quarter business highlights beginning on slide 17. In our upstream business, we continue to pursue attractive investments to commercialize our unparalleled resource base. As discussed during our recent analyst meeting, 2015 will be yet another active year for new developments, including seven major project start-ups which will add another 300,000 barrels of oil per day to working interest capacity.

We reached several milestones over the last few months. Starting in Canada, first bitumen production was achieved from the Cold Lake Nabiye expansion, which was completed on schedule and on budget. Nabiye produced 12,000 barrels per day in March, with volumes expected to increase to a peak of more than 40,000 barrels per day by year end. Over its expected 30-year life span, Nabiye will develop 280 million barrels of recoverable reserves.

In the Gulf of Mexico, we initiated production from the Hadrian South subsea development in late March, and I'd highlight that one of the Hadrian wells recently tested at 200 million cubic feet of gas per day, representing one of the highest production rates on record in the Gulf of Mexico. Daily gross production from Hadrian South is expected to reach approximately 300 million cubic feet of gas and 3,000 barrels of liquids from two wells.

In Angola Block 15, we successfully started up Kizomba Satellites Phase 2 project notably ahead of schedule and below budget. This capital efficient project is a subsea development tied back to the existing Kizomba B and Mondo FPSOs, and leverages available [oilage] for processing, storage, and offloading. The project develops 190 million barrels from three fields, and gross production is expected to reach 70,000 barrels of oil per day, helping to boost total Block 15 production to 350,000 barrels per day.

In Indonesia, the Banyu Urip development is more than 96% complete and commissioning activities are well underway. The project's crude transport system, which includes onshore and offshore pipelines connected to a floating storage and offloading vessel, has been installed and had its first lifting in April. Through implementation of early production concepts, Banyu Urip is now producing 75,000 barrels of oil per day gross. Early strong well performance enables continued use of existing early production facilities, along with the ramp up of the central processing plant. We expect to reach peak field production of more than 200,000 barrels per day by year end.

The Kearl expansion project in Canada continues to progress ahead of schedule. All major construction activities are now complete, and our focus has shifted to commissioning and pre start-up activities. Facility start-up is now expected by mid year.

So with respect to our exploration program, we continue to pursue a diverse set of opportunities. In Romania, additional drilling is ongoing in the deepwater Neptune Block and data collected from these wells are being integrated into development planning for the area.

Drilling operations in the Kurdistan region of Iraq are continuing, and we drilled and tested the Pirmam well and are evaluating these results. Additional drilling is planned in the next several months. And then offshore Guyana, we are drilling the Liza wildcat, which is the country's first deepwater well.

Lastly in the Gulf of Mexico, we were the apparent high bidder on 11 new exploration blocks in lease sale 235, further strengthening our acreage position. We plan to utilize our advanced seismic imaging capability to enhance opportunity and evaluation on these blocks.

Turning now to slide 18 and an update on our downstream investments, which further strengthen our advantage portfolio. Here again during the quarter we achieved several milestones. We completed the lube base stock facility expansions at our refineries in Singapore and in Baytown, Texas, building on Exxon-Mobile's leading technology and our worldwide manufacturing footprint. These investments will help supply high performance lube base stocks to meet global demand growth.

In Canada, commissioning is underway at the Edmonton Rail Terminal, a 50/50 joint is venture between Imperial Oil and Kinder Morgan. The terminal will have a capacity of 210,000 barrels per day and will provide logistics flexibility to support efficient, cost-effective market access for our growing Canadian oil sands production. The facility will also enable us to deliver additional advantaged crude to our refinery system. Ramp up of loading activities is expected over the next few months.

Finally, we also continue to extend our operating cost advantage by improving energy efficiency of our facilities. We recently funded and started construction of a new 84-megawatt co-generation plant at our Singapore refinery, which will enable the shutdown of less efficient power generation facilities and reduce carbon dioxide emissions. Upon start up, the unit will add to our total 5.5-gigawatts of gross co-generation capacity around the world, and this is another example of Exxon-Mobile's commitment to optimize manufacturing operations, improve energy efficiency, and to reduce both environmental impacts and operating costs.

So in conclusion, Exxon-Mobile's results underscore our continued focus on business fundamentals and our competitive advantages regardless of market conditions. In the first quarter, the Corporation earned $4.9 billion, demonstrating the value of our integrated businesses in a lower commodity price environment. In the upstream, we increased production from new developments, while in the downstream and chemical segments, delivered strong results across all regions. Resulting cash flow from operations and asset sales were $8.5 billion, generating positive free cash flow, which highlights our disciplined capital allocation approach. Corporation distributed $3.9 billion to shareholders, and we remain dedicated to creating shareholder value through the cycle.

Now that concludes my prepared remarks, and I would now be happy to take your questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: Thank you, Mr. Woodbury.

(Operator Instructions)

We'll go to Doug Leggate with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.

DOUG LEGGATE, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Thank you, good morning, Jeff.

JEFF WOODBURY: Good morning, Doug.

DOUG LEGGATE: I'll try two, if I may. The first one is on for want of a better expression, the upstream capture rate. Specifically, I'm looking at the very strong international gas prices this quarter, which seem to hold up a lot better relative to the oil benchmarks. And I guess the mixing is -- there's a lot of moving parts, obviously, but the mix also saw US gas production decline. So I'm wondering if you can just hit those two specific issues on what's going on with the margin and where you expect that strength to continue, and I've got a follow-up.

JEFF WOODBURY: Doug, we generally don't provide forward guidance on the commodity prices. In the first quarter, our total gas realizations were about $6.11, and as you know, that's a combination of our flowing gas as well as our LNG sales. And those LNG contracts are -- have mixed fiscal terms that will, in many cases, are benchmarked to liquid prices, obviously, with some type of a lag effect associated with the market conditions.

DOUG LEGGATE: So the strong European gasses or international gas rather is really more of a lag effect, is that how I should think about it?

JEFF WOODBURY: Well I think from an LNG perspective, if you remember from our prior discussions, it is a very significant part of our portfolio. And we had been adding significant liquids linked volumes over the years, and certainly is a factor for how our realization will change over time.

DOUG LEGGATE: Okay, I'll maybe try and follow-up on that one off line to get into details. But my follow-up is maybe a little aspirational, in terms of whether you'll answer it or not. At our conference in November, and I guess multiple times since, you guys have described Exxon as positioned for this type of environment as it relates to M&A. Obviously, we've seen one very large transaction already.

I'm just curious as to if you could qualify how you see the market in light of that comment, and specifically, whether Mozambique LNG is on your radar, given that you've held an advisory role there with the government over in recent years, and I'll leave it at that, thank you.

JEFF WOODBURY: Thank you, Doug. As we've discussed previously, think about it more broadly as asset management, which is a key component of our ongoing business. And we regularly assess our portfolio for higher value opportunities throughout the cycle. And as you have seen in our financial results, that includes an ongoing program of marketing assets, where we believe that they have greater value to others.

But likewise, we keep very alert to opportunities on the horizon for acquisitions, and that may be bolt-on acquisitions, as I said in the past, that provide natural synergies to existing operations that we can capture incremental value from, or larger acquisitions that fundamentally will provide strategic value for us in the long term. As you know, we're not going to signal specifics as to what our intentions are, but we keep very much alert to where there may be opportunities for additional shareholder value. I'll remind you that given that financial strength that we have, we can invest through our cycle, including in resource development opportunities, investments in our manufacturing business, as well as potential acquisition targets.

DOUG LEGGATE: That was a more full answer than I expected. Thank you very much, Jeff.

JEFF WOODBURY: Thank you, Doug.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Neil Mehta with Goldman Sachs.

NEIL MEHTA, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Morning, Jeff.

JEFF WOODBURY: Morning, Neil.

NEIL MEHTA: So on the quarter itself, it looks like production was a little higher than what we were expecting. So much of that was the PSEs but some of it was the underlying projects here. And as I think about (inaudible) and Gulf of Mexico starting up, you've got ramp toward the back end of the year as well. So just curious as we think about the balance of the year, could there be some upside to the base case production guidance or are we not thinking about some of the turnarounds? Anything you can do to provide the color on the shape of production over the course of the year would be very helpful.

JEFF WOODBURY: Yes, so just from a production standpoint, I'd tell you that our guidance that we provided in the analyst meeting last month remains the same: about 4.1 million barrels per day. We started the year very strongly, as you highlighted, we added significant volumes, whether quarter over quarter or sequentially, associated with new projects that we brought on, which as you appropriately pointed out, are continuing to ramp up.

As I said in my prepared comments, we've got seven new major projects starting up throughout the year, and this is part of our significant investment program that we had implemented several years ago that -- and saw our CapEx peak up several years ago, as we wanted to progress these mature assets to capture long-term value, and we're seeing benefits of it today. Important in all that, Neil, is not only new projects but our continual focus on the base, making sure that we have strong reliability, and we're continuing to integrate our learnings into productivity improvements.

NEIL MEHTA: Helpful, Jeff, and then if you could comment on two top-of-mind or new topical subjects here. The first would be any comments around Exxon Torrance and how we should be thinking about the ESP and timing there. And the second, as it relates to Russia, which I know you spent a lot of time in, and how we should be thinking about the impact of sanctions on longer-term growth from those operations.

JEFF WOODBURY: Sure, Neil. On Torrance, just to the benefit of the group, the Torrance refinery in February experienced an incident which resulted in the damage to the electrostatic precipitator. And I'll say up front that we certainly do regret the incident, and we're obviously going to be very diligent in understanding what the issues were, what learnings we can take from it, and how do we incorporate that into our global business.

But this precipitator is a emission control device that removes fine particles from exhaust gas. There are several investigations underway, both at the state and federal level. Neil, at this time, we really can't estimate when the investigations will be completed and when the site may return to full operations. As I indicated, we have our own investigation that's in progress.

I will say that we are diligently working to ensure continued supply to our customers. Some of the units of the refinery are operational, and we are producing both gasoline and distillates. But we continue to evaluate in parallel with the investigations, continue to evaluate options to reinstate our capacity there.

With respect to Russia, broadly speaking, there is really nothing new to report at this point. As you know, the sanctions remain in place and we will continue to fully comply. I don't want to speculate when those sanctions will conclude, but I'll remind you that they do not include our Sakhalin-1 operation, which here recently we're very pleased with the successful start up of the third field, Arkutun-Dagi. And also say that we've had a longstanding and successful business in Russia that's really built on an effective and I'd say mutually beneficial relationship with our Russian partner.

I guess the other point I'd leave you with is that we have a very diversified portfolio, with Russia just being part of that, and it provides great opportunities for us to continue to grow shareholder value over the years.

NEIL MEHTA: Thank you, Jeff.

JEFF WOODBURY: Thank you, Neil.

OPERATOR: We'll go next to Guy Baber with Simmons & Company.

GUY BABER, ANALYST, SIMMONS & COMPANY INTERNATIONAL: Good morning, Jeff. Thank you for taking my question.

JEFF WOODBURY: Good morning, Guy.

GUY BABER: I was hoping you could discuss Kearl performance a bit this quarter. It looks like some significant improvement relative to where it ran last year, and that you could have actually approached max rates there for the quarter. So could you talk about what you're seeing there?

And then could you also address confidence levels in a quick, sustainable ramp-up for the Kearl expansion? And what that timeline looks like and some of the benefits of applying learnings from some of the struggles with ramping up Kearl 1?

JEFF WOODBURY: Sure, Guy. I appreciate the question. As we've said in the past, Kearl is an advantaged long-life asset to one that had significant future potential as you look at how we further optimize the base. As you highlight, we have continued to improve on our reliability towards our operating targets, and we are fairly consistently producing at the 110,000 barrels a day gross. We are a bit short of that in the first quarter, given some planned maintenance that we took, but nonetheless, it's important to say that we are achieving higher rates. We've implemented some facility enhancement opportunities, and we expect to see better reliability going forward.

As I said in my prepared comments, the expansion is progressing ahead of schedule. When that expansion comes in, comes on, we will get further economies of scale with the full operation. And as I've said previously, we are fully integrating the learnings from the initial development into the expansion realtime, such that we will expect to see better ramp-up on the expansion versus the initial development.

I'd also highlight a couple of other things. First, that we are making additional investments to maximize logistics flexibility, and as I mentioned in my prepared comments, the Edmonton Rail Terminal is going to provide additional flexibility. And that takes me to my second point, that it really is fully integrated with our manufacturing business, and we're capturing integration value throughout the, if you will, the full value chain from upstream, downstream, and our chemicals business.

GUY BABER: That's very helpful, Jeff. Also I was hoping to get a general comment on what you all are seeing on the capital spending front when it comes to securing cost reductions and managing your CapEx according to the internal plan. It looks like you're tracking well to start the year, from our vantage point, and more specifically, the upstream non-US spending was the lowest this quarter its been since 2009, I believe.

So could you just talk about that a little bit? And is that reflective of major project phasing or have there been perhaps some significant cuts to the international CapEx in areas that are a little bit less visible, perhaps to the base or elsewhere that you could talk about?

JEFF WOODBURY: Yes, so let me take your first question in the broadest concept, and as we've talked previously, regardless of where we are in the business cycle, the Organization stays very focused on going down that cost structure, whether it be an operating cost or a focus on capital efficiency in our major projects. Across our spend, we are actively engaged with the various service providers, and we are making really good progress in capturing those savings from raw materials to services to our rig rates to our -- just our construction costs.

I will highlight, just make a point, that we have a very effective global procurement organization that is focused on capturing the lowest life-cycle cost, and I think that it really does advantage us from managing that from a global perspective.

I think it's also worth noting that our efforts go well beyond just trying to reduce cost from our service providers, as we do things such as continuing to integrate our learning curve benefits into our designs and execution plans. I shared with you in my prepared -- or my response to a prior question that realtime, we've been able to integrate our learnings in the Kearl initial development into the expansion project.

We continue to enhance our set of opportunities, including through commercial terms as well as optimizing our development plans, and we continue to leverage the -- what I'd say is the collective ingenuity between our service providers and our own people in identifying and pursuing more cost-effective solutions. And I'll note that given our financial capability, we're able to accelerate equipment and commodities purchases in the softer market, which I think provides a real cost advantage to our project portfolio.

To date, since the price decline, I'd say that the drilling and related services have been most responsive to the current market, and we've captured about an incremental 20% reduction in our well cost from the lower 48 to unconventional plays.

In terms of our spend level, I would tell you that there is no new guidance. We've signaled a $34-billion target for 2015. We are making good progress in capturing the savings, as I said, that was incorporated into that spend level. But I -- this Organization tends to overperform, and I expect that we'll see further savings beyond what we had envisioned.

GUY BABER: Great, that's very helpful, Jeff, and congratulations on the strong quarter.

JEFF WOODBURY: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Evan Calio with Morgan Stanley.

EVAN CALIO, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Hi good morning, Jeff.

JEFF WOODBURY: Good morning, Evan.

EVAN CALIO: I'll start with a macro, maybe another aspirational question. Exxon touches more barrels than any US producers, any refiner, for that matter. Any color on demand trends that you're seeing, or is there broadly any change or shift in the longer commodity downcycle view that was espoused at the spring analyst day?

JEFF WOODBURY: Evan, let me see if I can just give you some thoughts on a broader picture. Currently, we're ranging anywhere from 1.5 million to 2 million barrels a day oversupply. The general feeling is that as you get into the second half, we'll see more convergence towards a balanced supply/demand. But as we all know, there was a significant inventory build in 2014 due to the oversupply, and that has continued year to date and that storage will need -- that storage overhang will need to be worked off over time.

While we may converge in the second half of the year, I'd tell you that there's still a lot of unknowns. And one of them being is how the unconventional production levels in the US will trend over time, despite the fact that we've seen significant reductions in rig counts.

EVAN CALIO: Great. My second question, if I could, in PNG, as [Total] finalizes development, a plan for its proposed second facility, I think it's this quarter, is there a potential for Exxon to recover more costs or improve your overall PNG LNG economics with a bigger integration of the two projects or infrastructure?

JEFF WOODBURY: Just broadly speaking, and thank you for raising PNG, Evan, because it really does spotlight the successful Organization we had for our project execution and commercializing our resources. What a great success story with a location that had limited infrastructure. The project was a significant feat for the organization in terms of being delivered on time and on budget, it ramped up very quickly, it's been held at design rates, and we're just very pleased with the outcome.

As you think beyond that, Exxon-Mobile and its partners continue to assess additional resource opportunities. As you reflect on whether you can pull together enough resource in which to underpin a subsequent train, that's part of what's being considered amongst the joint venture. I would tell you that that will be the most cost-effective option compared to another greenfield development. So we, of course, we are very well positioned there and we are open to options to try to reduce the overall cost structure for, in general, resource development within Papua New Guinea.

EVAN CALIO: Given the economics, superior economics you've had on the greenfield facility, I presume that a brownfield expansion would be relatively high within the rankings of your relative potentially upstream projects?

JEFF WOODBURY: Yes, most definitely.

EVAN CALIO: Great. Thank you a lot.

OPERATOR: We'll go next to Blake Fernandez with Howard Weil.

BLAKE FERNANDEZ, ANALYST, HOWARD WEIL INCORPORATED: Thank you, good morning, Jeff.

JEFF WOODBURY: Good morning.

BLAKE FERNANDEZ: I think you pretty adequately addressed Guy's question on the capital cost trends, but I was hoping you may elaborate a little bit more toward the operating cost side. Many of your peers have enacted hiring freezes and headcount reductions, etc. And while I know we're not going to get a specific absolute dollar figure from you, I was just wondering if you could talk maybe about some trends we could expect to see on the operating cost side, aside from just the capital trends?

JEFF WOODBURY: Sure. Blake, I would tell you that the comments I made earlier were reflective of both our operating cost and our capital costs. The point I would emphasize for you is that really regardless of whether we are in the high-priced cycle or in a lower priced cycle that we're in right now, the Organization has remained focused on the fundamentals. And you've heard us say before that we're price takers, and we really focus on those things that we control. And those things that we control are things such as cost, they're our reliability, they're our productivity, and it's how we structure the Organization in the most efficient way.

I'd tell you that we are very well positioned, we never lose sight of those fundamentals, but we're also very well poised that when we get into a down cycle like this, that we can capture additional savings. And as I alluded to previously, that given our financial capability, we're also able to invest during a cycle and capture lower cost structure on resources that we had planned to commercialize in the future. So I think very well positioned, we've got a very capable organization that keeps their eye on the fundamentals through the cycle, and I think we're, as I've said in the past, we're going to lead that cost curve.

BLAKE FERNANDEZ: Okay, great. The second question for you, Jeff, the recent decision to increase the dividend, obviously an interesting time to enact that. Obviously demonstrates confidence. But noticing the debt balance has increased about $11 billion from year-ago levels, I'm just curious if you could talk a little bit about how you're thinking about shareholder returns and using the balance sheet to continue levering up, depending on how long this down cycle would remain.

JEFF WOODBURY: Yes. I think it's a good question, Blake. When you think about, from the perspective of our capital allocation, nothing's changed. We have maintained a very disciplined capital allocation approach throughout history in the highs and the lows, with the focus on a long-term horizon. We remain committed to our shareholders to invest in attractive business opportunities that are accretive to financial performance and to continue paying a reliable and growing dividend.

Across that business cycle, I'd say that we manage the cash by, as we've said before, returning the excess to our shareholders through share repurchases or borrowing to fund our investments. But I think what you've seen with the increase in the dividend and our continuing the stock purchases underscores our commitment to shareholder distributions. And I think it also demonstrates the confidence that we have in our integrated business model.

BLAKE FERNANDEZ: Right, very clear. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Asit Sen with Cowen and Company.

ASIT SEN, ANALYST, COWEN AND COMPANY: Thank you. Good morning, Jeff.

JEFF WOODBURY: Good morning, Asit.

ASIT SEN: So two quick questions. First, on LNG utilization, you, I think in your prepared remarks, mentioned utilization improving a little bit. Could you elaborate? Is it primarily related to PNG ramp-up or is anything else going on?

JEFF WOODBURY: So LNG utilization is broadly defined by several operational commercial factors, including maintenance, reliability of our facilities, and then market and commercial considerations.

ASIT SEN: Okay, all right, and then shifting gears to the Permian, Jeff, last year, Exxon added about 65,000 net acres in the core Wolfcamp. How do you see opportunities evolving in this current macro environment? And on that, could you update us on activity and volume relative to last quarter please on the shale plays?

JEFF WOODBURY: On the shale plays? Yes, so broadly speaking, as I said earlier, when we were talking about M&A, that we keep alert to where we got opportunities to build a portfolio with accretive assets, so if those opportunities come along, we'll go ahead and consider them. We're making great progress, as you heard in our analyst meeting, in terms of cost-efficiency improvements, productivity improvements, not only from our drilling and completions, but also initial well rates, so really good progress. We got great opportunities in the Permian and in the Bakken.

Just broadly speaking, in the three key plays that -- liquid plays that we have in the unconventional, we're running just south of 40 rigs right now. That's been trending downward, in part commensurate with the efficiency and productivity improvements that we've been able to capture.

ASIT SEN: And do you see -- how do you see this evolving in the balance of the year, trending down through year end?

JEFF WOODBURY: We have been trending downward. Like I said, because we've been able to maintain realtime capture of additional benefits, so I wouldn't translate that into a linear relationship with activity levels.

ASIT SEN: Very helpful, thank you.

OPERATOR: We'll go next to Edward Westlake with Credit Suisse

EDWARD WESTLAKE, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Yes, good morning, Jeff. Obviously, just moving over to Holland, Groningen has been in the news again. Just trying to understand what sort of decline did you assume that the Groningen field was going to have, say over the next -- to 2017 in your planning numbers? And how do you assess the risks that it might actually be lower? And then I have a follow-up, thank you.

JEFF WOODBURY: Ed, when you refer to decline, I think you're referring to the production constraints that have been imposed.

EDWARD WESTLAKE: Yes, and obviously, you laid out a corporate production objective for the firm; Groningen is a part of that. So I was just trying to get a sense of what was already in the numbers, so that if it does get worse, we can quickly estimate the impact.

JEFF WOODBURY: Yes, sure. So first, let me start with the impacts in our operating performance here. Both quarter over quarter as well as sequential, the -- actually Netherlands was up due to higher demand, but that was offset by some constraints. I'll be clear up front, Ed, that we did incorporate the advertised restrictions into the volumes projections that we shared with you last month.

EDWARD WESTLAKE: Okay, so if they get worse, then that would be a negative delta?

JEFF WOODBURY: Well it really is a function of what happens due to changes in demand throughout the year. But yes, certainly if there's more extreme restrictions, that will have an impact.

EDWARD WESTLAKE: Okay, something we'll watch. And then a broader question, which is more demand related. Obviously Exxon has refining chemicals, upstream businesses around the world. You've started to see some demand estimates from the main agencies be revised upwards. But apart from the chink of light that you saw in Europe, your opening comments were a little bit down beat on the global economy. So just trying to gauge whether you think that the recent increases in some of the demand estimates are real or not and if not. And if not, what might be the reasons things like tertiary inventory building?

JEFF WOODBURY: Yes, so from a downstream perspective, we did see margin improvements, but due to several different reasons, if you think about in Europe there was some capacity that was brought off the line within both Europe and Asia, as well as due to lower crude prices, as well as some planned and unplanned maintenance that was taking capacity off the system. And then lastly, there was some fundamental demand improvement in a number of products like [mole] gas, distillate, fuel oil.

We saw similar benefits in the US as well. Going into the future, I'd be a bit reluctant to extrapolate that beyond this quarter.

EDWARD WESTLAKE: The earnings performance, what about demand, sorry? Or both?

JEFF WOODBURY: You're talking about--

EDWARD WESTLAKE: Global demand for products.

JEFF WOODBURY: Yes, global demand, well let me start with the chemicals business then. Our projection on global demand for the chemicals business is that's going to continue to grow greater than the GDP by about 1.5%. Refining demand will -- I think is going to be a function of what happens in the economies.

EDWARD WESTLAKE: Okay, thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Jason Gammel with Jefferies.

JASON GAMMEL, ANALYST, JEFFERIES & CO.: Hi, yes thank you very much. Hi Jeff.

JEFF WOODBURY: Good morning.

JASON GAMMEL: I just wanted to ask specifically about the international upstream earnings. Most of your peers have quantified the effect of the change in the UK tax laws within their releases. And I appreciate that you've addressed the variance that has occurred in the other section, but I was hoping to get the absolute amount from you?

JEFF WOODBURY: Sure. Let me give you a little bit more color on just the tax rate. As you've seen in our supplemental information, we had an effective tax rate of a little over 33%, and that's about a 12% drop quarter on quarter. And as you would appreciate, the effective tax rate is an outcome of our business results across the geographies in which we operate within.

Now most of that drop was really due to the portfolio mix of income across our business segments and our geographies. About 3% of that was associated with one-time tax items, primarily the UK tax rate change which amounted to about a $200-million positive impact on earnings.

JASON GAMMEL: Great, appreciate that. Another question that's completely separate topic, just in the current oil price environment without having seen a lot of deflation yet, are you expecting to make any FIDs this year? And if you could address Hadrian North specifically.

JEFF WOODBURY: Yes, so Jason, I would encourage you to go look at our recent financial and operating review. If you look at that, you'll see that we have a list of projects that we anticipate that will start up post 2017, and that will give you a sense for the next tranche of development opportunities that are currently in play. And many of these are in development planning stages or even some in pre-FID. And that will give you a sense for what's on the horizon. We don't broadcast to planned FIDs in the future, but we do give you a pretty detailed list of what's out there that we're working on.

JASON GAMMEL: Yes, got it in front of me. Maybe if I could just put it another way. Have you seen enough cost deflation in the deepwater yet to maybe accelerate your investment potential in that area, or have you seen very little in terms of cost inflation?

JEFF WOODBURY: Well frankly, I'd tell you, Jason, that we're never really satisfied with the cost structure and we'll always continue to work on it. But as you can appreciate, there are a lot of factors. And as I indicated earlier, we have seen a -- what I would consider early innings of reductions in services like rig rates.

We expect that we're going to be able to do a lot more, and as I alluded to previously, that also includes an expectation within our organization that we'll be able to further optimize these development plans to maximize shareholder returns. But I'd tell you that we've got a very, very large diverse resource base to work on. It allows us to be very selective in what we decide to pursue. And when we decide -- when we get to an FID stage, its been tested across a range of economic considerations, such that we're confident it's going to be accretive to our overall financial performance.

JASON GAMMEL: Okay, appreciate that. Thank you, Jeff.

JEFF WOODBURY: Thank you, Jason.

OPERATOR: Phil Gresh with JPMorgan has our next question.

PHIL GRESH, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Hi Jeff, good morning.

JEFF WOODBURY: Good morning, Phil.

PHIL GRESH: One question on the quarter, you talked about the benefit from lower tax rates. I know you had proceeds from asset sales as well, so just wondering if there are any one-time benefits from asset sale gains.

JEFF WOODBURY: Yes, so as you saw in our materials that we sent out, there was about a just under $500-million cash flow benefit associated with asset sales. That translates to about a 50% reduction in the number if you unwind the remaining undepreciated investment we have on our books. And those proceeds are really a result of sales really across our upstream and downstream businesses.

PHIL GRESH: Okay, got it. And then you've talked about a fair number of investments you're making in Europe to high grade your refining capacity to distillates. Maybe just give us an update, and remind me when that's supposed to be coming online. And then on the US side, what opportunities might there be to debottleneck or add new capacity here over the next few years if you think that that's a decent return project?

JEFF WOODBURY: Yes, so Phil I guess you're referring to our Antwerp coker.

PHIL GRESH: Yes, exactly.

JEFF WOODBURY: Yes, so really good progress on that investment opportunity. I'd tell you that it's progressing towards a 2017 start-up.

PHIL GRESH: Okay and then on the US, do you see any opportunities to debottleneck capacity or add new capacity any of your refineries in the next few years?

JEFF WOODBURY: Well we regularly evaluate our portfolio both in the US and internationally for where we can capture additional value for earnings growth. And I'd tell you that while I'm not in a position to go ahead and give you any indication specifically, that we keep very mindful of where we can capture additional value. And it primarily falls in four key areas: one is trying to further improve our flexibility of our feedstock; two is opportunities that we can further reduce our cost structure; the third one would be in areas where we can increase our higher value product yields; and then lastly, as you saw with the Edmonton Rail Terminal, improving our overall logistics flexibility.

PHIL GRESH: Okay very helpful, Thank you.

JEFF WOODBURY: Thank you, Phil.

OPERATOR: We'll go next to Doug Terreson with Evercore ISI.

DOUG TERRESON, ANALYST, EVERCORE ISI: Good morning, Jeff.

JEFF WOODBURY: Good morning, Doug.

DOUG TERRESON: My question is also on Groningen. There's been a lot of commentary about the issues surrounding seismic conditions and property in the area. So my question is whether or not we could get a little bit more color on that situation, meaning it sounds like when you answered Ed's question a few minutes ago that the implications for production may be negligible. But I just wanted to make sure I heard that correctly.

And then also, there's also been talk of some financial penalties too, so any commentary that you could provide to help us sort this out would be appreciated.

JEFF WOODBURY: Most of the information, as you know, has been digested in the media. Just broadly speaking, the original target was about 42 billion cubic meters in 2014. That's been originally reduced down to about 36 billion cubic meters, and then in the first half of 2015 down to 16.5.

It's still a very dynamic issue. Our understanding is there will be further guidance from the government coming out in July. But broadly speaking, as I referred to previously, our production guidance has been incorporating the reduction production constraints that we -- that had been advertised externally. But it is having an impact, and I don't want to mislead anybody.

DOUG TERRESON: Okay, just wanted to be clear on that. Thank you a lot.

JEFF WOODBURY: Thank you.

OPERATOR: We'll go next to Ryan Todd with Deutsche Bank.

RYAN TODD, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Great, thank you. Maybe a follow-up on an earlier comment that you made on Canadian crude. Is there a -- can you give us -- how big is the rail terminal that you're working on up there in Edmonton? How much crude can you actually move out of there by rail once it's up and running?

And can you give us any -- differentials have obviously been very tough in terms of heavy barrels. Any thoughts other than the crude terminal in terms of ways in which you might be able to optimize pricing going forward?

JEFF WOODBURY: Yes, so the capacity of that terminal is just over 200,000 barrels a day, 210,000 barrels to be exact. I'll emphasize a point I made earlier: that it's part of our integrated businesses. It's a key element for us to connect our upstream business to our refining and chemicals business throughout the Gulf Coast and the mid-continent.

RYAN TODD: Okay, thank you. And then maybe a quick follow-up on gas decline as well. We saw a relatively steep rate of decline in US gas lines quarter on quarter, and really there's a lot of quarter-to-quarter volatility. But can you give us an idea of generally a good assumption for what you would assume for an annual decline rate in US gas?

JEFF WOODBURY: I'd say, just to your point, our gas activity has been fairly limited in the US. We have really transitioned a lot of our drilling activity in the lower 48 to liquids plays, obviously, because we see the value proposition is stronger.

But I really back up and highlight the point that there is a real opportunity in the US to commercialize this gas if we were to remove some of the barriers that we've got before us. And we've got, as you all are aware, we've got an investment pending in Golden Pass to convert that terminal to an LNG export facility.

We think we're very well positioned with infrastructure. We think it is a great opportunity for the United States if we could increase the export options for the US producers. It's going to create additional investment. It's going to create additional jobs, and bottom line, it's going to improve the economy.

So I think the call to the government would be one of really taking advantage of the opportunity that the US has to really build energy security, not only in the US but more globally, by providing, if you will, free trade.

RYAN TODD: Great I appreciate the comments. Thank you, Jeff.

JEFF WOODBURY: You're welcome.

OPERATOR: Roger Read with Wells Fargo has our next question.

JEFF WOODBURY: Good morning, Roger. You there?

ROGER READ, ANALYST, WELLS FARGO SECURITIES, LLC: Sorry about that, I was messing around with speaker versus direct line. I'd like to follow-up a little bit on some of the volume guidance and the entitlements and the fairly significant of barrels that came back in. And as you think about the 4.1 million barrels for the full year, the outperformance in Q2, is there upside based on entitlements? Or would you say your projection based on an expectation of futures curve and oil prices et cetera, we should think of 4.1 as really the right number?

JEFF WOODBURY: Yes, I would tell you if you go back to the analyst presentation, we had assumed, just for the sake of the presentation itself, we had assumed a brent price of $55 per barrel. And of course, flowed that into our production sharing contracts to give you a sense for what we would expect in terms of volume, and that is our target of 4.1 million-barrels per day. Obviously, if price changes up or down, it's going to have an impact.

It's really, I really don't have a rule of thumb for you when it comes down to entitlement impacts, which as you know, include many different factors included in the commercial structure, as well as expenditure levels and obviously price. But we had assumed a price forecast that's comparable to where we are right now.

ROGER READ: Okay, that's helpful. And then back to the OpEx cost reductions, is there any guidance you can provide us or any help you can provide us in terms of how that ought to work its way into this system or whether or not most of that has been captured during the first half of this year, Q1 and into Q2?

JEFF WOODBURY: No, in fact I would -- the guidance I'd give you Roger is that we'll go to see further capture opportunities as we progress through the year.

ROGER READ: So think a majority has come through, a minority, a plurality?

JEFF WOODBURY: No, we have been able to capture savings in the first quarter, but as I alluded to, not all parts of our cost structure have responded in the same level. And we'll continue to progress those and we expect increased savings over time.

ROGER READ: Okay, thank you.

OPERATOR: We'll go next to Brad Heffern with RBC Capital Markets.

BRAD HEFFERN, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Good morning, Jeff.

JEFF WOODBURY: Good morning, Brad.

BRAD HEFFERN: Most of my questions have been answered, but I'll try more of a macro one. Obviously Exxon has always prided itself on investing with sort of a more long-term demand viewpoint. Do you think that with the current down cycle, we've taken enough CapEx out of the industry, that we're going to face more of a supply/demand squeeze going forward maybe later in the decade, earlier in the 2020s?

JEFF WOODBURY: That's a hard one to really answer. I would step back and just think about the overall energy outlook that we publish annually. We're fairly confident, given the range of variables that we test, that we're looking at about a 35% growth in energy demand between 2010 and 2040. Fundamentally, that is how Exxon-Mobile sets its investment plans, and obviously, we continue to test that not only annually but periodically.

In terms of how the business, more broadly speaking, is investing and whether that's going to be sufficient to meet that energy growth over time, there are a lot of variables in it, including, you may recall, that in our energy outlook it really does require a very healthy progress on energy conservation. But broadly speaking, it's hard for me to say whether the current level of investment will cause any shortages in the future.

BRAD HEFFERN: Okay, thank you.

OPERATOR: We'll go next to Anish Kapadia with TPH.

ANISH KAPADIA, ANALYST, TUDOR, PICKERING, HOLT & CO.: Hi, good afternoon. I have a couple of questions. The first one is to get your thoughts on Tanzania LNG. I saw that you went non-consent on the last expiration well with Statoil, and it didn't seem to be featured in any of the four projects you highlighted on the slide in the analyst day. Just wondering if this is something that's dropped to the back of the queue that you've deprioritized in this environment and with your CapEx cut backs?

JEFF WOODBURY: Not at all. Tanzania is, for the benefit of the people that are on the phone, Block 2 to date, we have participated in seven gas discoveries. We think total resource in place is in excess of 20 TCF now.

There is a lot of work to do in a greenfield development like this. Statoil and Exxon-Mobile have been progressing development plans for the initial discoveries, and then there's a broader consortium that has been looking at the potential for an onshore LNG facility.

We would tell you that the up-front planning is progressing. I do -- I will confirm that there was one well we did not participate in, but I wouldn't use that as an indication of our lack of commitment. I think what's important here as we go forward is we get better definition of the project, but equally important, you all know that LNG projects are capital intensive and what we need to ensure is that we have a stable fiscal regime with appropriate terms and conditions to underpin that type of an investment.

ANISH KAPADIA: Okay, thank you. And then one last follow-up question. On looking at going back to the acquisition market, what we're seeing is it seems like a lot of the US E&P companies and the integrateds are pulling out of international investing more in the US; seem to see a similar trend with the NOCs. So was just wondering are you seeing more value internationally and less competition internationally for assets now relative to the US market?

JEFF WOODBURY: Well I think broadly speaking, it's a good observation. Broadly speaking, I think when capital becomes constrained that by definition, that provides additional opportunities.

I would say from our perspective, it's the value proposition that we bring that we hope that resource owners will look to, and that is our -- a strong balance sheet, our leading return on capital employed, our operational expertise, the technology that we bring to resource development. I'll say that we have we have one of the best, if not the best, project execution organizations. And then we've got a leading downstream and chemical business that's fully integrated with our upstream. And I'd say that as a package, those characteristics provide the, if you will, the winning proposition for resource owners.

ANISH KAPADIA: Very helpful, thank you.

JEFF WOODBURY: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Our last question today comes from Pavel Molchanov with Raymond James.

PAVEL MOLCHANOV, ANALYST, RAYMOND JAMES & ASSOCIATES, INC.: Thank you for taking the question, guys. Can I go back to the balance sheet? You've always said maintaining triple A is critical. Given that you're not currently funding the dividend and the buyback from cash flow, what do you think is the cushion that you have in billions to lever up and still maintain the triple A?

JEFF WOODBURY: Yes, I'd first say that triple A is really an outcome of our financial strategies. As you've heard us say previously, that operating cash flows are our primary source of funding for both our capital departments and shareholder distributions. We maintain a very strong focus and prudent approach to cash management throughout that cycle.

We have, as you know, significant debt capacity, but we'll maintain our financial flexibility and we'll continue to be very disciplined in how we invest and what we choose to invest in. But we aren't going to forgo attractive opportunities, and I think that's a key differentiating factor for Exxon-Mobile is that we've got the capability to respond when we need to respond. And we're very mindful of our cash balances and how far we want to take our investment program.

PAVEL MOLCHANOV: Okay, can I press you just a little bit on that? Have you looked at what the credit agencies might say if you take on an additional $5 billion, $10 billion over the next year, year and a half?

JEFF WOODBURY: Yes, we're very -- we obviously we look at all of the variables when we talk about our cash management and our financing capability. We keep a very mindful look at what our commitments are in the future. But I'll tell you that we're very comfortable and we are very mindful about where we are in terms of our debt. But I'm just not going to quote any specific numbers.

PAVEL MOLCHANOV: Okay, fair enough, appreciate it.

OPERATOR: With no further questions in the queue, I'd like to turn the call back over to Mr. Woodbury for any additional or closing remarks.

JEFF WOODBURY: Well first and foremost, I want to say thank you for your questions, very good, very insightful, and I think it really brings more color to our business. So to conclude, I just want to thank you for your time and we very much do appreciate your interest in Exxon-Mobile. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, again that does conclude today's conference. Thank you all for joining.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
exxn : Exxon Mobil Corporation
   IN
i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1300003 : Crude Petroleum Extraction | iextra : Natural Gas/Oil Extraction
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Financial Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020150502eb4u0060s
  


 HD
 Q4  2014  Exxon  Mobil Corp Earnings Call - Final
   WC
11,141 words
   PD
2 February 2015
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©015 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day, everyone, and welcome to this ExxonMobil Corporation Fourth-Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.

   TD
Today's call is being recorded.

At this time, I would like to turn the call over to the Vice President of Investor Relations and Secretary, Mr. Jeff Woodbury. Please ahead, sir.

JEFF WOODBURY, VP OF IR & SECRETARY, EXXONMOBIL CORPORATION: Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning and welcome to ExxonMobil's Fourth-Quarter Earnings Call.

As you know, the focus of this call is ExxonMobil's financial and operating results for the fourth quarter and the full year 2014. I will refer to the slides that are available through the investor section of our website. Before we go further, I'd like to draw your attention to our cautionary statement shown on slide 2.

Turning now to slide 3, let me begin by summarizing the key headlines from our fourth-quarter and full-year performance. ExxonMobil delivered earnings of $32.5 billion in 2014 and fourth quarter earnings of $6.6 billion. These results highlight the value of ExxonMobil's integrated business model, which enables us to produce solid financial performance throughout the commodity price cycle: corporation-generated cash flow from operations and asset sales of over $49 billion in 2014 and free cash flow of $18 billion, an increase of over $7 billion from 2013. We completed a record of eight major upstream projects during the year and achieved our full year plan to produce 4 million oil equivalent barrels per day.

Moving to slide 4, we provide an overview of some of the external factors impacting our results. Global economic growth moderated in the fourth quarter. Expansion in the US continued, but growth slowed relative to the third quarter. China's economy decelerated, while Europe and Japan showed continued signs of economic weakness. As you know, energy prices declined sharply in the fourth quarter and US refining margins decreased significantly, while chemical specialty product margins improved on lower feed and energy costs.

Turning now to the fourth-quarter financial results, as shown on slide 5, ExxonMobil's fourth quarter earnings were $6.6 billion or $1.56 per share. The Corporation distributed $5.9 billion to shareholders in the quarter through dividends and share purchases to reduce shares outstanding. Of that total, $3 billion were used to purchase shares. CapEx was $10.5 billion in the fourth quarter, whereas cash flow from operations and asset sales were $7.7 billion and at the end of the quarter, cash totaled $4.7 billion and debt was $29.1 billion.

The next slide provides additional detail on fourth quarter sources and uses of funds. Over the quarter, cash decreased from $5 billion to $4.7 billion. Earnings, depreciation expense, changes in working capital, and other items in our ongoing asset management program yielded $7.7 billion of cash flow from operations and asset sales. Uses included net investments in the business of $9.1 billion and shareholder distributions of $5.9 billion. Debt and other financing increased cash by $7 billion. Share purchases to reduce shares outstanding are expected to be $1 billion in the first quarter of 2015.

Moving now to slide 7 for a review of our segmented results, ExxonMobil's fourth-quarter earnings of $6.6 billion were $1.8 billion lower than the year-ago quarter. Lower earnings in the upstream and downstream and higher corporate expenses were partly offset by higher chemical earnings.

Results were favorably impacted by approximately $1 billion of non-cash effects that included US deferred income tax items and the recognition of the 2012 award by the International Chamber of Commerce for ex-appropriated Venezuela assets. In the sequential quarter comparison shown on slide 8, earnings decreased by $1.5 billion, primarily as a result of lower upstream and downstream earnings. Guidance for corporate and financing expenses remains at $500 million to $700 million per quarter.

Turning now to the upstream financial and operating results starting on slide 9, upstream earnings in the fourth quarter were $5.5 billion, down $1.3 billion from the fourth quarter of 2013. Realizations decreased earnings by $2.4 billion as worldwide crude oil prices declined almost $32 per barrel.

Notably, favorable sales mix effects increased earnings $400 million, driven by higher margin production growth from the US and major projects in Canada, Angola, and Papua New Guinea. All other items increased earnings by a net $640 million, including adjustments to deferred income tax balances and recognition of the gain from the Venezuela ICC Award received in 2012. The ICC Award was recognized given the favorable fourth quarter ruling of the International Center for Settlement of Investment Disputes.

Moving to slide 10, excluding the impact of the Abu Dhabi onshore concession expiry, oil equivalent production decreased by 0.7% compared to the fourth quarter of last year. Liquids production was up 80,000 barrels per day, driven by major new projects and work programs; however, natural gas production was down over 650 million cubic feet per day as reduced entitlement volumes, lower weather-related demand, primarily in Europe, and field decline were partly offset by major projects in Papua New Guinea and Malaysia. In short, our volumes performance continues to demonstrate the progress being made to high grade the portfolio mix with higher margin production.

Turning now to the sequential comparison starting on slide 11, upstream earnings decreased $948 million versus the third quarter. Realizations decreased earnings by $2.2 billion, driven by sharply lower worldwide crude prices, which declined over $27 per barrel. Volume and mix effects improved earnings by $140 million, reflecting higher margin volume growth. All other items had a positive impact of $1.1 billion, including the previously mentioned deferred tax items and Venezuela ICC Award. Upstream after-tax earnings per barrel for the fourth quarter were just over $15, excluding the impact of non-controlling interest volumes and is down due to lower crude prices.

Moving to slide 12, volumes were up 223,000 oil equivalent barrels per day or 5.8% sequentially. Liquids production increased 117,000 barrels per day from higher entitlement volumes, improved facility uptime, and work programs. Natural gas production was also up 639 million cubic feet per day, driven by higher seasonal demand primarily in Europe.

Moving now to the downstream financial and operating results starting on slide 13, downstream earnings for the quarter were $497 million, down $419 million from a year ago. Earnings increased $40 million due to stronger marketing and non-US refining margins, mostly offset by weaker US refining margins. Volume and mix effects increased earnings by $20 million and all other items decreased earnings by $480 million, primarily from higher maintenance activities and unfavorable tax effects.

Turning to slide 14, sequentially, fourth quarter downstream earnings decreased $527 million. Lower US refining margins, partly offset by stronger marketing and non-US refining margins, decreased earnings by $360 million. Volume and mix effects decreased earnings by a further $20 million and all other items reduced earnings by $150 million, reflecting higher maintenance activities partly offset by favorable foreign exchange, and other effects.

Moving now to the chemical financial and operating results starting on slide 15, fourth-quarter chemical earnings were $1.2 billion, up $317 million versus the prior year quarter, primarily driven by higher non-US product margins on lower feed costs. Volume and mix effects decreased earnings by $60 million and all other items, primarily unfavorable foreign exchange effects, reduced earnings by $110 million.

Moving to slide 16, sequentially, chemical earnings were essentially flat as stronger specialty product margins were offset by volume and mix effects and increased maintenance activities.

Now I'd like to provide a summary of our full year results shown on slide 17. 2014 earnings were $32.5 billion, or $7.60 per share. The Corporation distributed $23.6 billion to our shareholders through dividends and share purchases to reduce shares outstanding.

Of that total, $12 billion were used to purchase shares. CapEx in 2014 was $38.5 billion, which is down $4 billion from 2013 and is also down $1.3 billion from our 2014 guidance. Cash flow from operations and asset sales remained strong at over $49 billion, which included $4 billion from asset sales. Moving now to the full year cash flow statement as shown on slide 18, during the year, cash decreased from $4.9 billion to $4.7 billion.

Earnings, depreciation expense, changes in working capital and other items and our ongoing asset management program yielded $49.2 billion of cash flow from operations and asset sales. Uses included net investments in business of $31.2 billion and shareholder distributions of $23.6 billion. Debt and other financing increased cash by $5.4 billion to fund our commitments, including working capital requirements.

Moving on to slide 19 and a review of our full year segmented results, 2014 earnings were essentially flat with 2013 results. Higher upstream and chemical earnings were offset by lower downstream earnings and higher corporate expenses.

Turning now to the full year comparison of upstream results, starting on slide 20, upstream earnings of $27.5 billion were up $707 million from 2013. Realizations reduced earnings by $2 billion, as crude oil prices declined almost $11 per barrel. Importantly, favorable sales mix effects increased earnings by over $500 million, reflecting investments in higher margin assets and our continued focus on profitability.

Volume contributions from major project start-ups in US onshore liquid plays were partly offset by lower weather-related down time and unfavorable entitlement impacts. All other items, primarily asset sales and deferred tax effects, increased earnings by $2.2 billion. Upstream after-tax earnings per barrel for the year was $19.47, up $1.44 from 2013, despite declining crude prices.

Moving to slide 21, as indicated, volumes ended the year on plan at 4 million oil equivalent barrels per day. Excluding the impact of the Abu Dhabi onshore concession expiry, volumes were down by 1.7% or 71,000 oil equivalent barrels per day from 2013, reflecting lower gas demand in Europe and asset sales. Of note, liquids production was up 44,000 barrels per day or 2%.

Volume growth from work programs and major projects in Canada, Angola, and Papua New Guinea were partly offset by field decline and divestment impacts. Our natural gas production was down 691 million cubic feet per day, driven by lower weather-related demand, entitlement and divestment impacts and field decline, partly offset by major project volumes in Papua New Guinea and Malaysia.

The full-year comparison for downstream is shown on slide 22. 2014 earnings were over $3 billion, down $404 million from 2013. Lower refining margins reduced earnings by $230 million. Volume and mix effects, mainly driven by refinery optimization activities, increased earnings by $480 million. All other items, primarily unfavorable foreign exchange and tax impacts, decreased earnings by $650 million.

On slide 23, we show the full year comparison for chemical results. 2014 earnings of $4.3 billion increased $487 million from last year. Higher commodity product margins, partly offset by lower specialty margins, increased earnings by $520 million. Positive volume and mix effects on higher demand were offset by all other items, driven by increased maintenance activities.

Moving now to an update on our cash flow growth shown on slide 24, as mentioned, annual cash flow from operations and asset sales was $49.2 billion, while net investments in the business totaled $31.2 billion. Resulting free cash flow of $18 billion increased $7.3 billion compared to last year and supported total shareholder distributions of $23.6 billion. Debt and other financing, along with a reduction in our cash balance, provided additional funds to meet our commitments.

Moving next to the fourth quarter business highlights beginning on slide 25, over the past year, ExxonMobil completed a record eight major projects, demonstrating our world class project execution capabilities. We added more than 250,000 barrels per day of net capacity across a broad range of resource types and geographies. The higher margin production from these projects underscores our focus on delivering profitable growth.

We completed several projects over the last quarter. In Russia, at offshore Sakhalin, the first well at the Arkutun-Dagi field reached target depth in December, with first production in early January. Daily gross production from the field is expected to reach 90,000 barrels and will bring total gross production at Sakhalin-1 to more than 200,000 barrels per day. Arkutun-Dagi is the last of three fields to be developed by the Sakhalin project. The other two fields, Chayvo and Odoptu, began production in 2005 and 2010, respectively.

In Canada, initial steam generation at the Cold Lake Nabiye development started late December, followed by injection into the reservoir in early January. After steam soaking, the first bitumen production is expected later this quarter. Production will increase over the balance of the year with gross rates expected to reach 40,000 barrels per day.

Nabiye is an expansion of the existing Cold Lake field, which started up in 1985 and produced almost 150,000 barrels per day in 2014. In the greater Hadrian area off the Gulf of Mexico, the Lucius project was essentially completed in December, with first production in January. Gross production from Lucius is expected to be around 80,000 barrels of oil and 150 million cubic feet of natural gas per day once the wells have fully ramped up.

The Hadrian South subsea production system and flow lines were installed and connected to the Lucius far host in late 2014 and will be brought online once the Lucius production is stabilized. Hadrian South is ExxonMobil's deepest subsea tie back at more than 7,600 feet. Daily gross production from Hadrian south is expected to reach approximately 300 million cubic feet of gas in two wells.

In offshore Abu Dhabi, upper Zakum is one of the world's largest oil fields with a resource estimate of 50 billion barrels. Together with our joint venture partners, we are progressing the field redevelopment to raise gross production capacity to 750,000 barrels per day. The joint venture is utilizing extended reach drilling from four new artificial islands and deploying proprietary ExxonMobil technology. So the works are now essentially complete on all islands, drilling is ongoing from two of the islands, and first production started in November of last year.

Facility additions and drilling will continue over the next three years to reach the targeted production plateau. Finally, the Kearl expansion project in Canada continues to track ahead of schedule. Site construction activities are now largely complete and commissioning activities are ramping up. The project incorporates the learnings from the initial development phase and will double Kearl's production capacity to 220,000 barrels per day for the next several decades.

Turning now to slide 26 for an update on our broad exploration program. Drilling operations are ongoing at the Pelican South wildcat well in the Neptun block offshore Romania. Following this well, additional exploration targets in the area will be considered. In Argentina, we successfully drilled and tested two ExxonMobil-operated horizontal wells in the Vaca Muerta.

The La Invernada X-3 well flowed at an average rate of over 600 oil equivalent barrels per day and is currently on a long term test. It is among the best producing wells in the Vaca Muerta. Our active program continues with additional drilling and testing in 2015. Recently, we have also added high potential acreage to our diverse exploration portfolio.

ExxonMobil expanded its presence in the Canadian North Atlantic by 1.6 million gross acres, capturing three blocks offshore Newfoundland and Labrador. These blocks are in a proven oil-prone hydrocarbon basin with recent industry discoveries. This new opportunity will build on our 17 years of success with Hibernia, Terra Nova, and the ongoing development at Hebron.

ExxonMobil also recently added significant acreage in West Africa, building upon a strong position that stretches from Liberia to Angola. In Cote d'Ivoire, we added 2.3 million gross acres by successfully completing negotiations of production-sharing contracts on two deepwater frontier blocks. These captures marked the return of ExxonMobil to Cote d'Ivoire, where we produced the country's first oil 30 years ago.

In Equatorial Guinea, we completed PSC negotiations to acquire an interest in another offshore block encompassing 160,000 gross acres to PSC, subject to final government ratification. This additional acreage builds on almost 20 years of ExxonMobil operations in Equatorial Guinea. In the UK North Sea, we were awarded a 50% working interest in two licenses that are a part of a proven hydrocarbon province near producing fields. ExxonMobil and Shell bid jointly for these licenses, which cover more than 250,000 gross acres.

In conclusion, our full year results underscore the value of our integrated business model. In 2014, ExxonMobil earned $32.5 billion and we achieved our full-year plan to produce 4 million oil equivalent barrels per day. We maintained our disciplined capital allocation approach by selectively investing in attractive opportunities, thereby improving our production mix.

Unit profitability increased from just over $18 per barrel in 2013 to about $19.50 per barrel in 2014, despite lower prices last year. The Corporation generated free cash flow of $18 billion, an increase of over $7 billion when compared to 2013, and we maintained strong shareholder distributions totaling $23.6 billion. In summary, we delivered on our commitments and we remain resilient through the cycle.

Finally, I'd like to mention two upcoming events. First, in mid-February, we'll be releasing our 2014 reserves replacement data. Second, as many of you may know, our upcoming analyst meeting will take place at the New York Stock Exchange on Wednesday, March 4 with a live webcast beginning at 9:00 AM Eastern Time. We will provide an update to our business strategies and our investment plans during the meeting.

The presentation will be lead by ExxonMobil's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Rex Tillerson. That concludes my prepared remarks. I would now be happy to take your questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions)

We'll take our first question from Doug Terreson with Evercore ISI.

DOUG TERRESON, ANALYST, EVERCORE ISI: Good morning, everybody.

JEFF WOODBURY: Good morning, Doug.

DOUG TERRESON: Jeff, because the Company is so diverse, both functioning geographically, your commentary on global economic activity has always been pretty helpful. Based on your remarks at the beginning, it seems like economic trends in the OECD and China weakened materially during the second half and specifically, in the fourth quarter. So my question was whether or not you have additional color or updates in those areas and also any commentary and/or color on economic activity trends that you're seeing in the non-OECD as well?

JEFF WOODBURY: Yes, Doug, thanks for that question.

I'd say broadly speaking, I'll fall back on our overall assessment of what demand will be doing across the globe, particularly in Asia Pacific. We are forecasting that demand and of course, as I've said previously, that demand assessment that we do on an annual basis really underpins our business strategies and our investment plans.

So as we look forward, we see oil demand growing at about 0.8% per year. That's underpinned by transportation and chemical needs. In the gas sector, we see gas demand growing by about 1.5% to 1.6% per year and that's primarily underpinned by power generation and industrial demands. Now overall, demand growth is largely underpinned by the non-OECD growth, so when you think about our business, the scope of our business and how we lay out our business strategies and our investment plans, they really are focused on the long-term expectation around energy demand.

DOUG TERRESON: Okay. Also, specific to the Company, how much of the $1 billion non-cash effect was related to the arbitration ruling with Venezuela? Also, was this entire amount accounted for in the upstream?

JEFF WOODBURY: So Doug, on the $1 billion, nearly $1 billion, about 70% of that was associated with the adjustments to our deferred tax accounting and then about 30% of that is associated with the Venezuela award and that was in the non-US component of the upstream.

DOUG TERRESON: Okay, great. Thanks a lot.

JEFF WOODBURY: You bet, Doug.

OPERATOR: We'll take our next question from Phil Gresh with JPMorgan.

PHIL GRESH, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Hi, good morning, Jeff.

JEFF WOODBURY: Good morning, Phil.

PHIL GRESH: So just to start off on the CapEx side, last quarter Exxon indicated that it did not plan to cut its CapEx in 2015 versus its initial target. So I know you'll give into a more broad update at the analyst day, but just generally speaking, has your view changed at all, or are you still deciding at this stage? Obviously, you pulled the buyback lever there, so just wondering more broadly how you're thinking about that?

JEFF WOODBURY: Sure, Phil. I can certainly appreciate a lot of interest, given this climate that we're in right now. I'd tell you that, right now, we have no CapEx guidance. As you may recall, we had signaled a further reduction in CapEx to under $37 billion in 2015.

As we normally do, we'll provide an update on both our business strategy and our investment plans next month, as I indicated. As you are aware, we have been reducing our capital spend since 2013, due to several reasons, including the completion of several major projects, our ongoing intense focus on capital efficiency, and of course, our discipline in investment planning, given the economic parameters.

Phil, I'd like to emphasize a couple of points, recognizing that I'm asking to hold off until next month. First, regardless of where we are in our business cycle, this organization has a very strong culture of driving down our cost structure. Whether it be self-help in our operating costs or capital efficiency in our project execution, we expect to lead the cost curve in capturing savings, especially in downturns like we're experiencing today.

Second, we challenge all of our investments to ensure that we are creating long-term shareholder value through the cycle and remember that we are price takers. We don't assume price growth in the future, but we really focus on those things that we can control like costs, liability, and of course, our project execution. So Phil, we'll keep a close eye on our cash flow, maintain our investment discipline, and of course, our commitment to the growing dividend and where necessary, we'll leverage our balance sheet to meet our commitments, as appropriate.

PHIL GRESH: Sure, okay. Then just a question on the buyback, I mean obviously, it could have been any number between $0 billion and $3 billion, but just wondering why you specifically picked what you did. Are you trying to kind of target a certain leverage level assuming the strip or just how you're generally thinking about it? More specifically, just wondering what would make you change it up or down from here again?

JEFF WOODBURY: Sure, Phil. Obviously, it's a number of factors.

Our share buybacks have always been the flexible part of our capital allocation program. The buyback pace has been determined each quarter considering the Company's current financial position, our CapEx requirements, our dividend requirements, as well as our longer term business outlook.

We'll continue to manage our business in a prudent manner throughout the cycle, as we've said many times, and that buyback decision will be really an outcome of our cash flow management. So I'd just again emphasize that we remain committed to our investment program and of course, paying our growing dividend.

PHIL GRESH: Okay, thanks.

JEFF WOODBURY: Thank you, Phil.

OPERATOR: We'll go next to Doug Leggate with Banc of America.

JASON SMITH, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Jeff, it's actually Jason Smith on for Doug. Good morning.

JEFF WOODBURY: Good morning, Jason.

JASON SMITH: Just coming back to the one-time items, in US refining, your earnings looked a little weaker than your peers that have reported so far. You called out some year-over-year tax and maintenance impacts, but it seems like that was not part of your $1 billion. Can you maybe just give some color around those and maybe quantify the absolute impact for the US? I'm just curious if there's anything else going on in US refining beyond that?

JEFF WOODBURY: Sure.

Let me just give you a broad summary on the US refining. Fourth quarter, our downstream earnings were impacted by lower realized refining margins and a negative crude lag impact, as well as higher maintenance activities at some of our largest refineries in the Gulf Coast. While earnings were marginally negative over the quarter, our full year results were solid, at about just over $1.5 billion, despite the pressure on refining margins and a heavier maintenance year than normal.

Overall, our use refining footprint is very well-positioned to benefit from advantaged feedstocks and from the investments that we've made that focus across a number of areas to further advance our profitability in those assets, such as feedstock flexibility, logistics capabilities, increasing the higher value product yields, and reducing our fundamental cost structure and most important, capturing the most value from our integrated business model.

JASON SMITH: Got it, thanks. Maybe just on PSC impacts, you gave some color on the sequential improvement; I think it was 78,000 barrel a day positive. With oil down significantly from 4Q, can you maybe just give any color around the incremental impact at prices down here?

JEFF WOODBURY: Yes, you can appreciate that each of our contracts are unique and associated with the commercial arrangement. It'd be really tough to give you a rule of thumb because we do have, in that category, price impacts. You've got spend impacts. We have temporary volume impacts that are associated with the fiscal agreements. Broadly speaking, you're correct to assume that lower crude prices will provide an uplift as you saw in the sequential comparison, but that impact is largely complicated by the multiple contracts, cost recovery, and other effects that we have in our operations.

JASON SMITH: Thanks, Jeff.

JEFF WOODBURY: You bet.

OPERATOR: We'll go next to Evan Calio with Morgan Stanley.

EVAN CALIO, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Hi, good morning. How are you?

JEFF WOODBURY: Good morning, Evan.

EVAN CALIO: My first question may be CapEx from another angle. Net debt is up $7 billion in the quarter. I know you reduced the buyback guidance, yet how willing are you to flex the balance sheet through a down cycle? Can you discuss limitations on that side, which would either take that buyback lower or reduce CapEx? Maybe just lastly on CapEx, I presume you already have a 2015 CapEx number and it's more of a guidance question. Or functionally, how does that work?

JEFF WOODBURY: Evan, so I'd get you to think about it from -- it's fundamental in how we manage our cash and the consideration and balance of all of the variables that we need to address. The inflows, our commitments to fund investment plans, as well as our dividends. I don't have any specific guidance for you on debt capacity or our plans. As you know, our operating cash flows remain the primary source of funding, as evidenced by the reductions that we have taken in CapEx, and as you've heard, the reduction planned in the first quarter on share buybacks.

We'll continue to be disciplined in our investment approach throughout the cycle, but we won't forego any attractive opportunities. We have a significant debt capacity, but we will maintain our financial flexibility, and we'll assess the cash and our funding options under a range of outcomes and take a balanced approach to meet those obligations, as I indicated. So in short, I'll come back to this message throughout our discussion that we remain committed to an investment program that delivers on an attractive return, but also to pay a reliable and growing dividend.

EVAN CALIO: Great, that's helpful. Maybe second is a smaller issue, just a question on the quarter. Is there an asset sale loss, or did I miss that, which would affect the lower tax rate for the quarter? If you can talk me through that, please?

JEFF WOODBURY: So the lower tax rate that you're focusing on really had three components. One would be the gains on deferred tax items that I mentioned already. The second would be changes to the portfolio mix given the income streams that we get from our US and non-US. Third would be ongoing asset management activities. But I'll tell you, Evan, that our guidance of our effective tax rate is still consistent or about the mid-40%.

EVAN CALIO: Got it. Thank you.

JEFF WOODBURY: You bet, Evan.

OPERATOR: We'll take our next question from Paul Sankey with Wolfe Research.

PAUL SANKEY, ANALYST, WOLFE RESEARCH: Good morning, Jeff.

JEFF WOODBURY: Good morning, Paul.

PAUL SANKEY: Jeff, could you update us on what's going on in Russia from your point of view, if anything? Further to that, which I know was a JV that was very important to your longer-term reserves and production plans, could you talk about how you would define the attractive opportunities that you've mentioned? I assume you're referring to M&A and whether you would be more attracted to oil, I would assume as opposed to gas reserves, more attracted, maybe, in the new world order, to US reserves maybe within the US.

If you could fill us in at all about what you would consider and how you would define an attractive opportunity? That would be great, thanks.

JEFF WOODBURY: You bet, Paul. Starting at Russia, broadly speaking there's really nothing new to report on that. As you all know, the sanctions are still in place and we will continue to fully comply. As we've said previously, that does not a apply to Sakhalin 1, which, I'll just take this opportunity to say that we've had extraordinary success, really, thanks to a very talented organization and a highly effective joint venture.

We're very pleased with the successful start up of Arkutun-Dagi, but in terms of the rest of the business, we just need to wait to see how the sanctions play out. I'll remind you that ExxonMobil does have a very longstanding and successful business in Russia that, I'd say, is built on an effective and mutually beneficial relationship with our partners.

On the second item around attractive opportunities in M&A, broadly speaking, and we've talked previously about our asset management program and we really think about it for the full scope of how we high-grade our portfolios through asset management and that may be, obviously, have an ongoing component of divestments of non-strategic or lower value assets, but also bringing in through acquisitions, some new opportunities and those may be bolt-on acquisitions.

They may be new entries that are synergistic to our business, but Paul, we stay very alert to value propositions. We're watchful of where we can capture opportunities to high-grade our portfolio, whether it be oil, whether it be gas, onshore/offshore. But I'll be clear, the real focus here is creating value and we'll pursue only those acquisitions that we think will have ultimate strategic value and are accretive to our longer-term returns.

PAUL SANKEY: I guess within that, you're primarily interested in long-term reserves, right? Obviously, you don't want to buy someone's decline curves. It becomes a question of 2p and 3p.

JEFF WOODBURY: Yes.

PAUL SANKEY: I assume?

JEFF WOODBURY: Yes, so Paul, it'd be a focus on, again, if we can get synergistic benefits, like some of the bolt-ons we've brought into XT over the last couple years have been very beneficial, but they do have a very significant component of development potential, where we can apply our resource capability expertise and how to develop that, our proprietary technology, and our strong balance sheet.

But yes, we don't want something that's already on decline that doesn't have potential. We're really looking for something that really can upgrade our overall portfolio and add future potential.

PAUL SANKEY: Great, thank you.

JEFF WOODBURY: Thank you, Paul.

OPERATOR: We'll go next to Ed Westlake with Credit Suisse.

ED WESTLAKE, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Hi, good morning, Jeff. An interesting time to step up to the role, so good luck this year.

JEFF WOODBURY: Thank you, Ed.

ED WESTLAKE: Just trying to get a sense of, again, this CapEx question again, how much of your, say, upstream spend is kind of locked in for 2015? How much wiggle room do you have in 2016? I appreciate this may be something for the analyst day, but just trying to get a sense of the levers that you could pull if your revenues are much lower this year?

JEFF WOODBURY: Yes, sure. I would tell you that, as we look at our overall investment program, we focus on every asset that we've got, regardless of whether it's, as you've indicated, a longer-term investment, which is, quite frankly, a core component of our investment program, as well as the shorter cycle investments and study work. Nothing is really sacred in there. As I indicated, we have a very strong culture of driving those cost structures down.

We've been very actively engaged with our service providers and we fully expect to capture savings across the spectrum of our business from rig rates to labor and services, as well as commodities. But I'd be clear, Ed, that we're probably in the very early innings of this effort. There's a lot of strong reaction to the current business climate and we think that with that it presents a number of really good opportunities to capture incremental savings, lower the overall cost structure of the business, as well as position us with some other opportunities as we go forward.

The thing that I would really point out that distinguishes us is that, as we've said many times, is that we can invest through the business cycle and it present some opportunities that will be able to lower that cost structure and improve our overall longer term returns, given the financial capability that we have.

ED WESTLAKE: Then a quick quarter question, Asia natural gas production Australasia as well, downticked in the fourth quarter versus the third quarter and appreciate there's lots of different demand drivers across a big business, but is there anything specific you'd call out for that step down?

JEFF WOODBURY: I would say that a component of that had to do with demand in Australia, but remember that there was a very healthy increase associated with Papua New Guinea over the year. Sequentially, you don't see as much of an increase. There was a slight increase in Papua New Guinea, though.

ED WESTLAKE: But in Asia, there was a much larger business, but that was also down, generally?

JEFF WOODBURY: Yes, it was generally some facility performance down time.

ED WESTLAKE: Okay, great, thanks.

OPERATOR: We'll take our next question from Blake Fernandez with Howard Weil.

BLAKE FERNANDEZ, ANALYST, HOWARD WEIL INCORPORATED: Good morning, thanks for taking the question. The first question is on Venezuela. I know you mentioned the arbitration ruling. Can you just confirm that finalizes this process or are there any additional legs to kind of move forward on there?

JEFF WOODBURY: Yes, Blake. On Venezuela, there's actually two separate arbitration proceedings. One was the International Chamber of Commerce that I mentioned that we recognized the award on. The second was the World Bank's International Center for Settlement of Investment Disputes. What we recognized was the first one.

I'll note that both of those decisions did confirm that the Venezuelan government failed to provide fair compensation for the assets that were ex-appropriated. We will recognize the second ruling at the time that we receive payment and when all legal proceedings have concluded.

BLAKE FERNANDEZ: Okay, great.

I hope this doesn't get too in the weeds, but the second question is on the impact of the strong US dollar. I'm just curious if you could talk around how that's impacting your business with the rapid moves we've seen and maybe what's been embedded in the quarter, as a result of FX?

JEFF WOODBURY: In terms of ForEx, obviously, as you're probably very aware, that it has opposite impacts across our business. In the upstream, it primarily ends up being a margin benefit, due to local denominated OpEx, whereas in the chemical and downstream, it tends to have a negative impact, due to our dollar denominated crude payables. So in a quarter-on-quarter, it was a slight hurt to earnings of under $50 million, although sequentially, it actually was a positive of over $200 million.

BLAKE FERNANDEZ: Great. Thank you so much, Jeff.

JEFF WOODBURY: Thank you.

OPERATOR: We'll go next to Brad Heffern with RBC Capital Markets.

BRAD HEFFERN, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Good morning, Jeff.

JEFF WOODBURY: Good morning, Brad.

BRAD HEFFERN: I was wondering if you could just go through maybe Exxon's current thoughts on the global LNG market? You have several potential projects that haven't FID'd yet. Do you think maybe the global market needs to take a pause at this point?

JEFF WOODBURY: Brad, again as we talked a little earlier, our investment plans are really founded on our outlook for supply and demand. We show, as I said, projected gas demand to grow about 1.6% per year between now and 2040 and that really provides the business case for our LNG projects. Broadly speaking, our existing LNG facilities are a key component of our portfolio; a very important part of our margin generation.

As we see demand grow in the future, we expect supply will grow in line with that demand. Obviously, these are capital intensive projects, so we'll need to insure there's a sufficient price structure in place to underpin those investments. We have gotten a number of projects across the globe that are in place, that are positioned to go ahead and compete for that demand profile.

BRAD HEFFERN: Okay, understood, thanks. Just thinking about gas in the different way, certainly in the US, you've been somewhat minimizing gas drilling over the past couple years and the market certainly has its own challenges right now, but has the downturn in oil caused you to think any differently about what, specifically, you're drilling for in the US?

JEFF WOODBURY: Not really. I'd tell you that it's still based on our demand projections. We've got significant drillable gas potential within the US, and as you know, that's generally a short cycle type investment. We can get on capacity pretty quick, so we're very well-positioned to do that should the demand grow and the prices support it.

I'd also say that, from a chemical perspective, our chemical business is very well-positioned to take advantage of the lower commodity prices. Particularly in the US, our manufacturing sites are highly flexible and can run across a wide range of feedstocks from ethane all the way to gas oil.

BRAD HEFFERN: Okay, understood. Thanks for taking the questions.

JEFF WOODBURY: You bet, Brad.

OPERATOR: We'll take our next question from Jason Gammel with Jefferies.

JASON GAMMEL, ANALYST, JEFFERIES & CO.: Thank you. I've actually got follow-ons to both the questions that were just asked. Just in terms of how you're managing the lower 48 business in the pricing downturn, Jeff, are you keeping a relatively steady rig count, or have you been laying down rigs the way that the industry has, as well?

JEFF WOODBURY: Yes, well, it's a good question, Jason.

I'd cast it from, if you will, a historical perspective that we've taken a very measured pace in how we've developed our lower 48 unconventional resources. You did see, over 2014, a number of operators really ramp up their rig counts significantly. We did grow our rig count and in fact, we are up in the fourth quarter versus the third quarter, but at a very measured pace to make sure that we didn't out run our headlights.

We wanted to make sure that we had a good understanding of the resource performance and importantly, we wanted to make sure that we were fully integrating all the learnings back into our advanced program. So we've been very measured how we've moved forward.

Going forward, we'll consider all of the factors, including the business condition, infrastructure capability, as well as our demand projections. But going forward, we've got, I just want to reinforce that we do have a very robust inventory of opportunities, even in this price environment.

JASON GAMMEL: Got it, thank you. My second question is on the LNG business. Can you remind us how much, just as a percentage of your overall LNG output, is committed under long-term contracts and how much is actually put into the spot market? Then, on the spot market, are you seeing significant demand weakness that potentially would even lead to reducing facility utilization?

JEFF WOODBURY: So on the LNG business, I'd say that a majority of our current LNG is under long-term contracts, very few that have spot sales. Of course, we did take some spot sales with Papua New Guinea given the early start up and also note that in our LNG contracts, we have potential to divert cargoes, as well, which gives it a lot of flexibility.

JASON GAMMEL: Okay, thanks, Jeff.

JEFF WOODBURY: You bet, Jason.

OPERATOR: We'll take our next question from Asit Sen with Cowen & Company.

ASIT SEN, ANALYST, COWEN AND COMPANY: Thanks and good morning, Jeff.

JEFF WOODBURY: Good morning, Asit.

ASIT SEN: Two unrelated questions, first, on the issue of supply chain costs and your prior success with that, I was wondering if you could quantify annual third party costs globally for the organization? Some of your peers have highlighted multi-billion dollar opportunities in further reduction.

Also, any high level thoughts on recently announced oil service industry consolidation? Has anything changed on the ground for Exxon?

JEFF WOODBURY: Well, broadly speaking, I don't have specific numbers. As I said previously, we are, as a mainstay in how we manage our Business, we are constantly working on that cost structure. We are very active with our service providers. As I indicated, we're probably in the early innings of that.

We are seeing decreases in rig rates and labor and service costs, as well as starting to see some commodity changes as well. But watch that space, more is to come in that area. On the second question, remind me, Asit. Was there--

ASIT SEN: On the oil service industry consolidation, any thoughts on that? How things have changed?

JEFF WOODBURY: No, there's really nothing I have to say on that. We access all of the service providers and competition is good and we have a very strict standard on what we expect from them in terms of quality performance and service costs.

ASIT SEN: Jeff, my follow-up is on US onshore. Last quarter, you had highlighted that Bakken was Exxon's most active and conventional play with, I think, 13 rigs running. Could you update us on activity levels currently and perhaps, provide update on Woodford and Permian, as well?

JEFF WOODBURY: So across the three main liquid plays that we've got, we're producing in excess of 220,000 barrels a day gross and we're running currently about 44 rigs. I'd say we're active in all three of them. That rig count has, if you compare back to what I said last quarter, has increased but very encouraging list of opportunities and we're making great success in integrating our learnings and driving down the cost curve.

ASIT SEN: Thank you.

OPERATOR: We'll take our next question from Paul Cheng with Barclays.

PAUL CHENG, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Hi, Jeff. Good morning.

JEFF WOODBURY: Good morning, Paul.

PAUL CHENG: Two quick questions, don't know whether you have any number you can share. In your supply costs, when you're looking at the contract, is there a number you can share in terms of the percent maybe for the country is over two years, still remaining? In other words, trying to understand what is the percent of your supply cost that, if we do see a substantial deflation in the industry cost structure, is it going to see a relatively quick pass through into you?

JEFF WOODBURY: Paul, I don't think I have any guidance on that.

PAUL CHENG: Okay. Secondly, did you say that in the downstream, you have a crude lag purchase effect that is negative?

JEFF WOODBURY: That's correct.

PAUL CHENG: Can you quantify how big is that?

JEFF WOODBURY: Well, broadly speaking, from a crude lag, I want to be clear, Paul. When we see a decrease in prices like we're seeing right now, we have a negative crude lag effect. In fourth quarter absolute, it was just over $600 million and likewise, in an environment where prices increase, then you'd have the opposite effect.

PAUL CHENG: You are using the LIFO accounting, so why we have such a big negative crude effect? Also there, I thought the price finalization related to your Saudi contract in the declining oil price environment should actually be a favorable positive impact, so I guess that I'm just totally wrong on that then?

JEFF WOODBURY: The crude lag effect is primarily associated with pipeline supply contracts standard terms to how the pricing is done.

PAUL CHENG: So this $600 million is primarily in US then, I presume?

JEFF WOODBURY: That's correct.

PAUL CHENG: I see. Is there any other tax impact in the quarter other than, say, the $700 million US deferred tax in the upstream?

JEFF WOODBURY: Paul, is your question relating to our overall performance, or specific to a segment?

PAUL CHENG: If you can say looking at all of the other segment that we know that you have $700 million of the US tax benefit in the upstream, is there any other tax negative impact or positive impact in the other segments?

JEFF WOODBURY: That is, in essence, the most of it.

PAUL CHENG: Okay, thank you.

JEFF WOODBURY: You bet, Paul.

OPERATOR: We'll take our next question from Allen Good with Morningstar.

ALLEN GOOD, ANALYST, MORNINGSTAR: Good morning.

I wonder if I could tackle the cost improvement question from a different angle. Is there any area that Exxon has identified, based off of trends the past few years where you think you may have more opportunity to cut cost relative to other areas? I guess I'm thinking more along the lines of project type and then specific regions relative to the other ones.

JEFF WOODBURY: Yes, Allen, I think broadly speaking, we always feel like we've got opportunity to become more cost efficient. From a capital perspective, it's around upfront planning or execution to make sure that we're most effective in utilization of services, as well as commodities.

In terms of our day-to-day operations, our fuel costs are a big component. You have to manage that appropriately in terms of energy efficiency of your facilities. As I commented on the capital program, I'd say that nothing is really sacred. We continue to identify additional opportunities to make our cost structure more efficient.

ALLEN GOOD: Great, thanks. On asset sales, I would assume that you guys are more opportunistic on that level, and I think if I recall, you said the approach of if it's worth more to us or more to the buyer we'll sell. Has activity around your assets or at least interest that you may have seen six months ago declined into today, and should we expect maybe the asset sales slowdown over the next year to 18 months?

JEFF WOODBURY: We've got such a diverse portfolio of assets, I really couldn't characterize for you whether the time the interest has increased or decreased. Assets are so unique in their own right and we recognize that these are years of planning to assess when the right time is to go ahead and monetize that asset in a different means. We've been very successful in capturing incremental value from our assets that we don't believe no longer has a strategic fit for our Business. So I'd leave it at that.

ALLEN GOOD: All right, thank you.

OPERATOR: We'll take our next question from Ryan Todd with Deutsche Bank.

RYAN TODD, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Great, thanks. Good morning, gentlemen.

Maybe one follow-up question on US liquids production. It was quite strong in the quarter, strong sequentially, and strong year-on-year. Can you talk a little bit about what assets are primarily driving that growth? Is this your big three onshore plays that you were talking about or is it a little bit of everything?

JEFF WOODBURY: Yes, so this is a good opportunity to really talk more about it. In terms of our fourth quarter versus the third quarter performance, we're up quite significantly on our volumes, primarily driven by our projects. Quarter-on-quarter, projects are up about 130,000 oil equivalent barrels per day. Those volumes are coming from Angola, primarily the [Clove] project in Canada, associated it with the Kearl project in Papua New Guinea associated with our LNG project.

We had a increase in project volumes associated with Malaysia, Telok, and Damar, as well as we had a very nice build in our US work program, due to our active drilling program in the three main liquid plays.

The other thing I'd point out is that we've also made great progress. The team has done an outstanding job in reducing our downtime in our facilities. 2014 was a very is successful year and that brings very high value volume to the bottom line.

RYAN TODD: Great, thanks. Maybe one more on LNG, I guess a couple parts on LNG, which is there any risk to the price in terms of your existing LNG contracts in the current environment from periodic reopeners in the contracts? Would a longer duration of this moderate environment change the pace or effort at all around US LNG exports?

JEFF WOODBURY: No, again, these are very large capital-intensive projects. The investment is underpinned by our long-term gas demand projection and that's really the business case. As I said earlier, our existing LNG projects are a very significant part of our margin generation.

RYAN TODD: Okay, great. Thanks.

JEFF WOODBURY: Thanks, Ryan.

OPERATOR: We'll take our next question from Roger Read with Wells Fargo.

ROGER READ, ANALYST, WELLS FARGO SECURITIES, LLC: Hi, good morning.

JEFF WOODBURY: Good morning, Roger.

ROGER READ: Maybe to follow-up on a couple things that have been hit here already, but as you look at the major projects that you outlined in the earlier presentation, just curious what the sort of incremental 2015 impact is? I mean a lot of these projects started up at the end of 2014 and roll into 2015. If you could give us an idea of maybe the volumes impact there?

JEFF WOODBURY: Yes, so for our 2014 program, just to recap, we added about 250,000 oil equivalent barrels per day. As we look forward for 2015, we'll need to provide you an update at the March analyst meeting.

ROGER READ: I was just wondering for the ones that were highlighted in the presentation, it's a March event and we'll wait for that?

JEFF WOODBURY: Yes, for 2015. I shared with you how those investments in the presentation will ramp up to their peak production. As I said, Arkutun-Dagi ramping up to 90,000 barrels a day, Nabiye ramping up to 40,000 barrels a day, Hadrian South ramping up 300 million cubic feet per day. Beyond that, we'll be more specific in next month's analyst presentation to have a discussion about it.

ROGER READ: Okay. Earlier in some of the Q&A, you mentioned specific to dealing with the cost structure, the economy, it sounded like to me, both internally and in your third parties. Any comparisons, contrasts you can do with previous downturns in terms of contracts that you have fixed here? Another way of asking the question, any change in the flexibility Exxon has to address the cost structure today versus several years ago or in prior downturns we've had?

JEFF WOODBURY: I wouldn't highlight anything that's changed. As I've said a couple times, it's a very intense focus on capital efficiency and lowering our cost structure in our business across the areas that I talked about previously.

ROGER READ: So no particulars on rig contracts or anything like that, that are more onerous than prior times?

JEFF WOODBURY: No. I don't want to get into specifics on our commercial arrangements, but we've got a very large sizeable operation and that positions us well to go ahead and work with our providers to put in place a very effective cost structure.

ROGER READ: Okay, thank you.

JEFF WOODBURY: Thank you, Roger.

OPERATOR: We'll take our next question from Iain Reid with BMO.

IAIN REID, ANALYST, BMO CAPITAL MARKETS: Hi there, Jeff.

JEFF WOODBURY: Hi, Iain.

IAIN REID: Just got a question on your pre-sanction, pre-FID projects, a couple of your partners have been talking about pushing these out due to current cost pressures and waiting for lower service costs, et cetera. I'm specifically thinking about projects such as Tengiz and some of the Australasian and Canadian LNG projects. Is that something which you're also factoring into with your longer term production and your CapEx outlook in terms of pushing these more modular projects down the road a little bit?

JEFF WOODBURY: It would be a consideration. Just broadly speaking, we've got a very large and diverse inventory of opportunities. We are very careful, as we move these things forward, that one, not only have they reached technical maturity, but that we have tested the economic viability across a full range of economic parameters, including commodity price.

So while we don't forecast or expect a price growth in order to make these investments go forward, we want to make sure that we go into this with eyes wide open and that we have a good handle on how robust these investments are, so when we do these commodities volatility like we're seeing right now, we're comfortable about the investment plans that we have in place.

Quite frankly, our investment program is really driven by a long-term projection and we just don't overreact to volatility in the market, but we're mindful. We're mindful about implications on the business climate, implications on our cash flow management and then the overall supply demand projection.

So all of those variables are considered in how we set up our investment plans, but given that it's based on a long-term projection of demand and they have been tested across a range of economic parameters, there won't be a whole lot of change. I'm not suggesting that there will be no change, but there won't be a whole lot of change to our investment plans.

IAIN REID: Okay, all right. That's understood. Can I just a quick question on chemicals? Your numbers there seem to be holding up pretty well. I'm just wondering what you're thinking about chemical demand, in particular, outside of the US going forward? Because you're going to be seeing very much lower naptha prices now, so what do you feel about the kind of pricing and demand side of that business?

JEFF WOODBURY: Very well-positioned. It's a great business. We've got the chemical facilities positioned throughout in North America. We're benefiting from the lower feed costs. We've got advantaged assets there. In the Asia, Europe and Asia Pacific, our steam crackers really benefits from the lower price environment we're in right now; particularly, our newest cracker in Singapore, which can process an unprecedented range of feedstocks ranging from crude oil, including crude oil, which is the really an industry first.

IAIN REID: I'm just wondering about the industry dynamics you're seeing out there in terms of demand and pricing. I know you're well-positioned, but what are you seeing in terms of Asian demand, European demand?

JEFF WOODBURY: So our global demand, I'm sorry, Iain, our global demand is expected, based on our assessment, is expected to grow above GDP, driven by Asia.

IAIN REID: Okay. All right, Jeff. We'll see you at the Analyst meeting.

JEFF WOODBURY: Thank you, Iain.

OPERATOR: We'll go next to Alastair Syme with Citigroup.

ALASTAIR SYME, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Hi, Jeff.

JEFF WOODBURY: Hi, Alastair.

ALASTAIR SYME: Can you just come back to the deferred tax benefit and just explain what's going on, please?

JEFF WOODBURY: Yes, so we periodically will review our deferred tax accounts to make sure we've got the right reserves in place and sometimes that results in an adjustment, which you're seeing this quarter.

ALASTAIR SYME: It's not related to commodity prices in any way?

JEFF WOODBURY: No, it's just a prudent review of our deferred tax accounts.

ALASTAIR SYME: Okay. My second question, some people have alluded to this is the lag effect on pricing. Could you just discuss, on LNG, what the typical lag effect is and how, when do you think we'll see bottom prices given where oil prices are today?

JEFF WOODBURY: There is a crude lag effect on our LNG contracts. We're not going to discuss the specifics of those, so you will see some impacts going forward. It really does vary by contract.

ALASTAIR SYME: Okay, but sometime in the first and second quarter would be reasonable, do you think?

JEFF WOODBURY: It depends on what prices do.

ALASTAIR SYME: Okay, thank you very much.

JEFF WOODBURY: You bet.

OPERATOR: We'll take our next question from Pavel Molchanov with Raymond James.

PAVEL MOLCHANOV, ANALYST, RAYMOND JAMES & ASSOCIATES, INC.: Thanks for taking the question. First, on the balance sheet, is it still the case that you're targeting maintaining AAA credit rating? If so, how much debt do you think you can take on and still keep the AAA?

JEFF WOODBURY: As I said earlier, Pavel, we don't have any specific guidance on debt capacity or our plans. We will assess our cash and funding options around a range of outcomes and we'll take a balanced approach to meet our obligations. But as I indicated, we have significant debt capacity, but importantly, we'll maintain our financial flexibility.

PAVEL MOLCHANOV: In relation to your top three US liquids plays, you said that the rig count has actually increased from three months ago. Can you name any geographic areas, either North America or otherwise, where the rig count has dropped in the last three months?

JEFF WOODBURY: I'd just say broadly speaking, at the level that we'll share with you all, our overall rig count globally is running just under 100 rigs; about 60% of that is in the US and we continue to assess the value proposition of maintaining our rig activity. I'll leave it at that there.

PAVEL MOLCHANOV: Okay, fair enough. Appreciate it.

OPERATOR: We'll go next to Guy Baber with Simmons & Company.

GUY BABER, ANALYST, SIMMONS & COMPANY INTERNATIONAL: Good morning, Jeff, and thanks for fitting me in at the end here.

JEFF WOODBURY: You bet, Guy.

GUY BABER: You highlighted the improvements to your underlying upstream margin through 2014 despite the lower year-on-year commodity pricing environment, which you all have been very focused on for some time and I think was a very important accomplishment for you. Setting aside the commodity, as we look to 2015, I was just hoping you could comment on bigger picture expectations for the trend in underlying upstream margins and what you think perhaps the biggest drivers and biggest opportunities may be?

I'm thinking evolution of major project mix and ramp ups, costs, or focused portfolio moves. Just wondering if there's anything specific you could share there that we should be focusing on?

Then I had a quick follow-up.

JEFF WOODBURY: Good question, Guy.

I'd say I appreciate the recognition of the progress that we've made over 2014, and I'd say that's a result of several factors. One is this intense focus on capital efficiency and lowering our cost structure. Two has been the higher margin production that we've been adding to the portfolio, due to our major project activity in our US onshore drilling activity, predominantly in the throw main liquid plays that we've talked about. Both have been a significant uptick to our overall unit profitability.

GUY BABER: That's very helpful.

My follow-up was, with 2014 now in the books, I was just wondering if there's any update you could share on base portfolio decline: how that performed versus expectations? Then big picture, does Exxon expect an increase in global decline rates just for the industry, given some base spending is perhaps being cut? And is that an important component of your oil price kind of fundamental outlook?

JEFF WOODBURY: Our overall base decline in 2014 was about 3%. We have continued to offset that with a work program activity, as well as the major project adds. Obviously, in our unconventional, you see a higher decline rate earlier on and then it flattens out and that will have an impact and we offset that with a very active work program.

GUY BABER: Thanks very much.

OPERATOR: We'll go next to Paul Cheng with Barclays.

PAUL CHENG: Hi, Jeff.

Just two very quick follow-ups, do you have an under lift or over lift in the quarter for your upstream production versus the sales versus the production?

JEFF WOODBURY: Yes. So the over lift and under lift, we have a -- my recollection was that we did have an under lift in the fourth quarter relative to the third quarter.

PAUL CHENG: How about versus the actual production?

JEFF WOODBURY: That's what it is, under lift versus the production.

PAUL CHENG: Okay, can you quantify what is that number?

JEFF WOODBURY: Yes, sequentially, it was about 90,000-barrels.

PAUL CHENG: Okay and--

JEFF WOODBURY: Paul, I'll just highlight, though, while we see that variability on a quarter-to-quarter basis, I'll just note that it was essentially flat year-on-year.

PAUL CHENG: Okay. Do you have -- I think that very little asset sales, just wondering is there any asset sales gain in the quarter?

JEFF WOODBURY: For the quarter, on the asset sales, it was very small, Paul. It had some small upstream assets in the fourth quarter and very small downstream, as well.

PAUL CHENG: Okay, thank you.

JEFF WOODBURY: All right, Paul, thank you.

OPERATOR: It appears we have no further questions at this time.

JEFF WOODBURY: To conclude, I'd like to thank everybody for your time and your questions this morning. As you know, our business model is designed to be successful in a business climate known for commodity price volatility. That's really why it always comes back to the fundamentals: prudent cash management, operational reliability and efficiency, this intense cost control I've talked about a couple times, and obviously, excellence in project execution.

We really do look forward to sharing more with you in March with an update on our business strategies and our investment plans. So until then, everybody take care and we'll see you in March. Thank you.

OPERATOR: That does conclude today's conference. We appreciate your participation. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
exxn : Exxon Mobil Corporation
   IN
i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1300003 : Crude Petroleum Extraction | iextra : Natural Gas/Oil Extraction
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Financial Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020150204eb22000ul
  


 HD
 Q3  2014  Exxon  Mobil Corp Earnings Call - Final
   WC
10,618 words
   PD
31 October 2014
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©014 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day, everyone, and welcome to this Exxon Mobile Corporation third-quarter 2014 earnings conference call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Vice President of Investor Relations and Secretary, Mr. Jeff Woodberry. Please go ahead, sir.

   TD
JEFF WOODBURY, VP, IR & SECRETARY, EXXONMOBIL CORPORATION: Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Welcome to ExxonMobil's third-quarter earnings call. Focus of this call is ExxonMobil's financial and operating results for the quarter. I will refer to the slides that are available through the Investor Section of our website.

Before we go further, I'd like to draw your attention to our cautionary statement shown on slide 2.

Turning now to slide 3. Let me begin by summarizing the key headlines from our third-quarter and year-to-date performance. First ExxonMobil's financial results reflect the strength of the integrated business model, which creates unique competitive advantages and allows us to generate long-term shareholder value regardless of market fluctuations over the business cycle. Second, year-to-date cash flow from operations and asset sales fully covered our net investments in the business and robust shareholder distributions.

Third, we continue to meet our operational and project development objectives. Upstream production volumes for 2014 remain on track to average 4 million oil equivalent barrels per day by year end as the Company delivers new production from project startups and work programs, all of which are enhancing our financial performance.

Now moving to slide 4. We provide an overview of some of the external factors impacting our results. Global economy showed mixed results in the third quarter. In the US, the economy continued to expand at a moderate pace. However, China's economic growth tapered slightly, while the European economy showed further signs of weakness.

As you know, crude oil prices decreased sharply and Henry Hub gas prices also weakened. The WTI spread to Brent narrowed, whereas global industry refining margins were essentially flat as stronger European margins were offset by weaker margins in the US. Finally, chemical commodity and specialty margins strengthened during the quarter.

Turning now to the financial results shown on slide 5. ExxonMobil's third-quarter earnings were $8.1 billion or $1.89 per share. Corporation distributed $5.9 billion to shareholders in the quarter through dividends and our share repurchase program. Share purchases to reduce shares outstanding were $3 billion.

CapEx was $9.8 billion in the quarter and just over $28 billion year to date, down 14% when compared to the first nine months of 2013. Cash flow from operations and asset sales were $12.5 billion. At the end of the quarter, cash totaled $5 billion and debt was just shy of $22 billion.

The next slide provides additional detail on third-quarter sources and uses of funds. Over the quarter, cash decreased by $1.3 billion from $6.3 billion to $5 billion. Earnings, depreciation expense, changes in working capital and other items, and our ongoing asset management program yielded $12.5 billion of cash flow from operations and asset sales.

Uses included net investments in the business of $7.9 billion and our shareholder distributions of $5.9 billion. Share purchases to reduce shares outstandings are expected to continue at $3 billion in the fourth quarter of 2014.

Now moving to slide 7 and a review of our segmented results. ExxonMobil's third-quarter earnings of $8.1 billion increased by $200 million from the third quarter of 2013. As you can see, higher downstream and chemical margins were partly offset by lower upstream liquids realizations and higher corporate and financing expenses.

In the sequential quarter comparison, shown on slide 8, earnings decreased by $710 million. Lower gains on upstream asset sales were partially offset by higher downstream and chemical earnings. Our guidance for corporate and financing expenses remains at $500 million to $700 million per quarter.

Turning now to the upstream financial and operating results, starting on slide 9. Upstream earnings in the third quarter were $6.4 billion, a decrease of $297 million versus the third quarter of 2013. Realizations decreased earnings by $670 million driven by lower liquid prices. In this regard, on a world-wide basis, crude oil realizations decreased by $10.48 per barrel. World-wide natural gas realizations decreased by $0.42 per 1,000 cubic feet as lower European realizations were partly offset by higher US gas prices.

Notably, favorable sales mix effects increased earnings by $340 million. Higher margin, production growth in Papua New Guinea, Angola and North America as well as in net over lift were partly offset by higher planned maintenance activities, lower entitlements and field decline.

Moving to slide 10, excluding the impact of the Abu Dhabi onshore concession expiry, our oil equivalent production decreased by 1% compared to the third quarter of last year. Importantly, liquids production was up 14,000 barrels per day. Increased production from onshore US work programs, Canada, and Angola were partly offset by divestment impacts in Iraq and Canada as well as scheduled maintenance in the US, Nigeria, and Russia.

Natural gas production was down 319 million cubic feet per day as expected field decline in the US and unfavorable entitlement impacts from pipeline gas in Qatar were partly offset by new high-margin production from Papua New Guinea LNG. In short, our volumes performance demonstrates the progress being made to high-grade our portfolio mix with higher-margin liquids and liquids-linked gas production. As previously indicated, we remain on track to produce 4 million oil equivalent barrels per day in 2014.

Turning now to the sequential comparison starting on slide 11. Our upstream earnings decreased $1.5 billion versus the second quarter. Realizations reduced our earnings by $850 million with world-wide crude realizations down $7.29 per barrel and natural gas realizations down $0.56 per 1,000 cubic feet. Again, favorable sales mix effects increased earnings by $460 million, reflecting profitable growth in Papua New Guinea, Angola and Canada and in net over lift partly offset by lower seasonal demand in Europe.

All other items reduced earnings by $1.1 billion, primarily driven by the absence of the prior-quarter Hong Kong Power divestment gain. Upstream after-tax earnings per barrel were $18.65 excluding the impact of non controlling interest volumes.

Moving on to slide 12, volumes were essentially flat versus the second quarter. However, liquids production was up 17,000 barrels per day due to growth in Angola and the US partly offset by higher planned maintenance in the US, Nigeria, and Russia. Natural gas volumes were down 155 million cubic feet per day, reflecting lower seasonal demand in Europe partly offset by a full quarter of Papua New Guinea LNG volumes.

Moving now to the downstream financial and operating results starting on slide 13. Downstream earnings for the quarter were $1 billion, up $432 million from the third quarter of 2013. Higher refining margins increased earnings by $820 million, whereas volume and mix effects added another $100 million. All other items decreased earnings by $490 million, which mainly was due to unfavorable foreign-exchange impacts.

Turning to slide 14, sequentially, third-quarter downstream earnings increased by $313 million. Higher non-US refining margins increased earnings by $310 million. Positive volume and mix effects due to lower maintenance were offset by unfavorable foreign exchange and other effects.

Moving now to chemical financial and operating results shown on slide 15. Third-quarter chemical earnings were $1.2 billion, up $175 million versus the prior-year quarter mainly due to higher commodity product margins. Positive volume and mix effects were more than offset by increased planned maintenance activities.

Moving to slide 16, sequentially, our chemical earnings increased by $359 million, due to higher commodity and specialty product margins.

Moving now to an update on our year-to-date cash flow growth, shown on slide 17. Strong year-to-date cash flow from operations and asset sales of $41.5 billion more than covered the net $22 billion invested in the business and $17.6 billion distributed to our shareholders. Remaining cash was used for other financing activities including debt reduction.

Overall, free cash flow of $19.4 billion represented an increase of $12 billion compared to the same period in 2013. This year-to-date free cash flow growth reflects our strong operational performance, ongoing asset management programs, and disciplined capital allocation.

Turning now to slide 18, I would like to provide an update on projects startups that will deliver profitable growth. We remain on track for a record startup year and plan to add 300,000 net oil equivalent barrels per day of production capacity. That is indicative of the diversity of our resource base. We continue to demonstrate our world-class project execution capabilities and have made significant progress during the year.

Through June, three major projects were started up. As you know, Papua New Guinea LNG came online a few months ahead of schedule and reached full capacity in July. In Angola, CLOV reached full capacity in the third quarter, just a few months after first production. In Malaysia, Damar started up in the first quarter.

Recently, we achieved several additional project milestones. In Indonesia, the second well pad at the Banyu Urip project, started up adding another 10,000 barrels per day of early production. Banyu Urip is now producing nearly 40,000 barrels per day. Construction of the central processing facilities, as shown in the picture, is near complete and the floating offshore storage vessel was recently towed to its location for final hook up. The project will reach full field capacity of 165,000 barrels per day in 2015.

In Malaysia, the Tapis enhanced oil recovery project, which is the first large-scale EOR project in the country was completed. The project is utilizing a water-alternating-gas injection process to sweep remaining oil reserves to the producing wells, increasing overall recovery.

Also, the Qatargas 1 Plateau maintenance project was completed, enabling the venture to maintain 10 million tons of annual LNG production for years to come. The project added well capacity and new onshore facilities for sulfur handling.

In the fourth quarter we also expect to start up several additional major projects closing out our 2014 plans. In our offshore Sakhalin project in Russia, the first production well at Arkutun-Dagi is currently being drilled. Offshore facility hook up and commissioning activities are nearing completion following the installation of the platform topsides this summer. Startup is anticipated around year end and the field is expected to add 90,000 barrels of oil per day at peak production.

In the Gulf of Mexico, hook up and commissioning activities for both the Hadrian South and Lucius developments are underway. At Hadrian South we finished drilling the two subsea wells earlier this year and installation of the subsea facilities for the tie-back to the Lucius spar is now complete. Startup of both projects is expected before year end.

In Canada, the Cold Lake Nabiye project is moving into the final stages of completion. Hydro testing and commissioning activities are occurring in support of planned startup and steam injection is expected around the end of the year. This project will add another 40,000 barrels per day to Cold Lake production.

I would now like to turn to slide 19 for an update on our US onshore liquids growth. We are generating significant cash flow by growing high-margin liquids production in the US, primarily in unconventional plays. In the Bakken, our resource base is now approaching one billion oil crude barrels and gross operated production is up more than six fold since we first entered the play in 2008.

The Bakken remains our most active unconventional play and is the liquids growth engine in the US. Gross operated production has increased 38% year on year, reflecting the higher activity levels. We're currently running 13 rigs, up from 10 in the third quarter of 2013, and have increased new wells brought online by 25% year on year.

We continue to achieve strong results and increased efficiencies through our development drilling in the core areas, optimizing completions and leveraging pad development. In this regard, drilling and completion costs have been reduced by 25% since 2011. We also have successfully employed our proprietary extract technology to reduce costs by eliminating the need for multiple plugs normally required for fracking.

In the Woodford shale we're running 10 rigs. Gross operated oil equipment production in the liquids-rich Ardmore-Marietta area has increased by 25% year on year, driven by more completions, strong well performance and the move to pad development. Here too, well completion times have decreased significantly, reducing costs and increasing the number of wells drilled per rig year.

Although rig counts have remained basically flat, we have increased the number of new wells by 33% year on year. In 2014 we also increased drilling activity in the Marietta basin, timed with the completion of infrastructure there. We are encouraged by the initial the delineage work in Marietta, which has an even higher proportion of liquids than in the Ardmore area.

Lastly, in the Permian basin, we continue to develop both conventional and unconventional reservoirs across a leading position of over 1.5 million net acres as shown on the map. Gross operated Permian production has increased 8% year on year on a large, legacy production base, reflecting increased drilling activity. Currently, we have 16 rigs drilling liquids-rich opportunities almost tripling the number of rigs we had in the third quarter of 2013, along with approximately 65 work-over rigs that are enhancing base conventional production.

We continuously look for opportunities to add attractive acreage through bolt-on acquisitions. In 2014, transactions within Endeavor Energy Resources and Linn Energy added 64,000 net acres in the heart of the expanding Wolfcamp play, as shown on the map in blue, complementing the ramp up of our horizontal drilling activities.

Turning now to slide 24 for an update on our exploration activities. In Romania, drilling activities at Domino-2 are complete. The well was drilled to gather more information on the 2012 Domino discovery to assess the size of the resource and its commerciality. Domino-2 is being followed by the Pelican South wildcat, which is currently being drilled. Additional exploration targets are also planned.

In Tanzania, Statoil and ExxonMobil made a seventh discovery in block two. Giligilani-1 well discovered gas in the western part of Block 2. The well confirmed an additional 1 trillion cubic feet of gas in place, bringing the total estimated resource in place up to 21 trillion cubic feet.

In Argentina, drilling and testing continue in the Vaca Muerta, where we have drilled and successfully tested two ExxonMobil operated horizontal wells. The Bajo del Choique X-2 well flowed at an average initial rate of 770 barrels of oil per day and is currently on long-term test. I will note that this is the highest unconventional oil production rate test in Argentina. The La Invernada X-3 well began testing in September with encouraging initial results, although still cleaning up. Our active program continues with additional drilling and testing later this year and into 2015.

Finally, in Russia, we successfully drilled the University-1 well in the Kara Sea. I can confirm that the well did encounter hydrocarbons, however the results are under evaluation. It would be premature to comment any further at this time. The well was safely plugged and abandoned and the rig has departed the location.

In conclusion, today's presentation provides a summary of our year-to-date performance. ExxonMobil's strong financial operating results demonstrate the value of our integrated business model and unique competitive advantages. Total earnings were $26 billion reflecting solid operating performance across all of our businesses and our ongoing asset management program.

In the upstream, production of 3.9 million oil equivalent barrels per day remain in line with our plan as we add new production from project startups and work programs. We continue to improve our production mix, with unit profitably increasing from $18 per barrel in 2013 to just over $21 per barrel year to date.

Our strong operating results combined with our disciplined capital allocation approach generated robust free cash flow of $19.4 billion, an increase of $12 billion compared to the same period in 2013. This favorable performance enabled us to maintain industry-leading shareholder distributions of $17.6 billion.

That concludes my prepared remarks. Now, I would be happy to take your questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: Thank you Mr. Woodberry.

(Operator Instructions)

Ed Westlake, Credit Suisse

ED WESTLAKE, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Welcome on behalf of the south side to the new role.

JEFF WOODBURY: Thank you Ed

ED WESTLAKE: Obviously, your net income margins probably surprised most people. They seemed to go up as the oil price pulled back. You've got new projects, obviously, coming on stream and I can see that your exploration expense was a little bit low, which is non cash.

Can you give us some color as to why you think net income per barrel went up in the US and international? All surprised.

JEFF WOODBURY: Let me broadly say, Ed, that it starts with the integrated business model. You're all very aware that we've got a very cyclical nature of our business. Our business model is focused on creating shareholder value by participating through that whole value chain.

It provides robust earnings performance despite the cyclical nature. If you think about just the overall upstream unit performance, as I said, we are up year to date versus 2013 by about $3 per barrel.

Half of that is asset management impacts and the other half are improved profitability, primarily due to improved liquids mix as well as higher profitability around our gas projects. Really good progress by the organization in improving the higher-margin production, as I said in the presentation.

ED WESTLAKE: Okay. A second unrelated question just around Kearl, obviously, that is a big project, and there is the Kearl expansion and potential debottleneckings. Maybe just give us an update of the latest status and bit more detail there? Thank you.

JEFF WOODBURY: Sure, thanks for that, Ed. Kearl, as we've said many times, is a long-life asset. It's advantaged. Obviously, it's advantaged because of the proprietary technology that we have implemented, where it forgoes the need for an upgrader.

Overall, I would say that we're making progress quarter on quarter at Kearl. Currently, we are consistently producing over 100,000 barrels of oil per day. As we ramp up production there, we are clearly identifying opportunities where we can further enhance the facility reliability.

I will say that we did take a turnaround in September for planned maintenance. All of these learnings are being fully integrated into the expansion project. As you know, we've talked about the importance of capturing the learnings from the initial development and that was a key element of their investment decision to progress right into the expansion. Likewise, as we get more and more comfort with the operability of the initial development, those learnings are being integrated into the expansion project as well.

Overall, really pleased with the asset. As I said, it's a long-life asset that's going to provide very stable productions. Quite frankly, Ed, we're in our sweet spot right now. We have -- this is what we do very, very well, in terms of our project execution, and then optimizing our operations to make sure that we maximize the value from the resource.

OPERATOR: Phil Gresh, JPMorgan

PHIL GRESH, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Hey, good morning.

JEFF WOODBURY: Good morning, Phil.

PHIL GRESH: Just following up on the question about the margin lift in the quarter and in past couple of quarters. Just wondering how you would think about -- how we should think about the next year or so? What could potential benefit you could see, in particular from cost levers? As we've seen the oil price come down, what levers do you think you can pull around cost and/or CapEx?

JEFF WOODBURY: Phil, that's a great question. Clearly, the market is seeing some changes with prices. I don't think any of us should be surprised, given the oversupply and continued economic weakness.

I will go right back, Phil, to the value of our integrated business model, which really does position us well to capture shareholder value through the cyclical nature of the business. Quite frankly, the market controls the price. What we need to focus on the variables that we do control.

To your question, those include things like effectively managing our development and operating costs, maximising our reliability, and then optimizing the value of the molecules through the integrated business model. All along, that has been a fundamental mainstay of our Corporation. As a key element of how we manage that, and it's always around optimizing the cost structure within our assets so that we are maximizing the value from the resources.

PHIL GRESH: Just as a clarification, could you tell us how much of the 2015 CapEx is locked in at this point? What kind of flexibility you have?

JEFF WOODBURY: Just a little bit more about the CapEx, if I could step back a moment. As you all know, our CapEx has grown through the years and it peaked in 2013 at about $42.5 billion. That was largely driven by a deliberate decision to progress several high-value upstream resource projects that were ready and matured to move forward. Now, we are trailing down to what I'd consider a more of a normal spend pattern of just shy of $37 billion.

The upstream is dropping off a little bit more than that as the downstream and chemical are increasing their spend pattern. You can appreciate a lot of these projects that are in current progress that that CapEx profile will continue into the future. Our guidance is no different, Phil, in terms of about a -- just shy of $37 billion a year for the next couple. We continue to invest through the cyclical nature of our business.

PHIL GRESH: Okay. My second question would be, you obviously have a very strong balance sheet and strong free cash flow generation, arguably stronger than most of your peers. You're in a pretty unique position to be potentially more aggressive in this period of weaker oil prices. Maybe could comment about how you would think about that, bigger picture, whether it's the buyback program or opportunities with the portfolio?

JEFF WOODBURY: Phil, I would tell you, I think you assess it up pretty good. Clearly, the financial flexibility we have with our current debt levels and our AAA credit rating position us very well to respond to potential investment opportunities, whether they be additional resource developments, investment in our downstream or chemical business that provide us advantaged benefits to the industry. It really requires us, though, to maintain a very disciplined approach to capital allocation through the business cycle while at the same time providing industry-leading shareholder distributions.

If you think about our capital allocation approach, it's first and foremost to invest in all of our attractive business opportunities that are accretive to average unit profitability and returns. Second, is to continue to pay our reliable and growing dividends. I'll remind everybody that our dividends have grown about 10% a year over the last 10 years. Then lastly, is to return cash to our shareholders through our share buyback program.

As we've said in the past, our operating cash flows remain the primary source of funding for both our capital requirements and our shareholder distributions. We will access the financial markets when and if needed to meet commitments or capture opportunities.

OPERATOR: Doug Terreson, ISI

DOUG TERRESON, ANALYST, ISI GROUP: My question regards the margin and profitability improvement as well. You covered the mix effects on new projects and removal of Abu Dhabi. You also mentioned asset management, so my question is whether these benefits that you guys are getting from asset management are of the strategic or operational variety? Some clarification on what you meant by that?

JEFF WOODBURY: As you know, asset management has been a core component of how we manage our business. We are constantly looking across the portfolio to assess how we could maximize the value of our assets, either through development or finding alternative means to go ahead and monetize those assets. As a result, as you know, we have had a very healthy program in terms of our divestment activities.

In terms of our unit profitability, as I said, year on year, 2014 to 2013, part of that increase in unit profitability was associated with our asset management efforts. By way of example, Doug, let me just remind you, over the last 10 years, for instance, in our downstream, we have reduced our refining capacity by more than one million barrels a day associated with divestment of about 20 plus refineries. We've divested over 200 fuel terminals, 38 blending plants and 6,000 miles of pipeline. It's a very active program to make sure that we are maximizing the value to shareholder, but also positioning us strategically to continue to perform at an industry-leading pace in the future.

DOUG TERRESON: Let me ask you one other question about this. The Company has always done really well optimizing costs, but has there been, and always been, pressure on your costs for that reason. Is there maybe a step up in the effort to deliver sustained cost improvements that also may be affecting the results over the last few quarters?

JEFF WOODBURY: We always focus on cost management in our cost structure, Doug. I'd tell you that regardless of where we are in the business cycle, that is a fundamental part of our DNA is, how do we become even more efficient than we've had historically? That's not only through the highly-qualified people we have working here at ExxonMobil, but also the application, the technologies that we have in order to position ourselves in an even more effective manner to increase the value of those molecules.

DOUG TERRESON: Okay thanks a lot.

OPERATOR: Evan Calio, Morgan Stanley.

EVAN CALIO, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Good morning, Jeff.

JEFF WOODBURY: Good morning, Evan.

EVAN CALIO: Somewhat related to the cash flow question and discipline. What drives you the forward -- the 4Q buyback guidance at $3 billion? Given the sequential commodity price drop or seasonality of refining that you do cash in 3Q. Maybe in general, what commodity price do you need to slow the flywheel or buyback, or will the balance sheet just underwrite that through any potential downturn?

JEFF WOODBURY: Evan, I would fall back on what I indicated previously on our capital allocation approach. It is a decision that we manage internally around, what are our cash requirements in order to invest in the opportunities that we have in our portfolio? It's making sure that we can continue to return cash to our shareholders through the dividend. Then, we make a unique decision, internally, around how much additional cash are we to go ahead and distribute to our shareholders via our stock buyback program.

EVAN CALIO: That's more of a quarterly-by-quarterly assessment? Because I know it's been up and down over time, is that how it's approached?

JEFF WOODBURY: Evan, I would say it's probably much more continual than that, but generally speaking, there is, if you will, a decisive point on each quarter to decide what we're going to do in the near future.

OPERATOR: Asit Sen, Cowen and Company.

ASIT SEN, ANALYST, COWEN AND COMPANY: Thanks, and good morning

JEFF WOODBURY: Good morning, Asit.

ASIT SEN: Two unrelated questions. First, thanks for the color on the US onshore liquids. I'm wondering if you quantify your production during the quarter, if you could, from US and conventional?

JEFF WOODBURY: You bet, Asit. Let me just share with you. The largest part of our unconventional US liquids growth is in the Permian, Bakken and the Woodford. In total, those are producing in excess of 210,000 barrels a day, now.

As I said in my prepared comments, it has really been a significant progress over the last several quarters. I would give you a little bit more color to that by saying that about 40% of that is in the Bakken, 35% in the Permian and the rest is in the Woodford. Great progress. Couldn't be more proud of the folks there at XTO and the success they've had here in the recent past.

ASIT SEN: Thanks, very helpful. Second, on LNG, could you comment on how global LNG pricing adjusts to lower oil prices? It appears that there is a four to six month lag, but I'm wondering if you could comment on that?

JEFF WOODBURY: Broadly speaking, the specifics of our LNG commercial agreements are confidential. Let me use Papua New Guinea as an example. A majority of the Papua New Guinea volumes are contracted in excess of 95%. They are linked to a crude price, and as crude price varies so does that LNG.

OPERATOR: Blake Fernandez, Howard Weil

BLAKE FERNANDEZ, ANALYST, HOWARD WEIL INCORPORATED: Over the past six month or so you've announced a couple of investments in the downstream in Europe, which seemed a little bit counter to what we've seen from peers, who were basically trying to reduce their capital employed in the area. I'm curious if Exxon has maybe taken a different view on the macro longer term, or if it's a scenario where you feel you have superior assets where overtime maybe just capacity rationalization occurs and your left standing with an attractive asset?

JEFF WOODBURY: Blake, thanks for the question and the interest in that area. Clearly, we are stepping out and distinguishing ourselves. Let me step back a little bit and talk about the European portfolio and then the downstream investments.

Clearly, Europe is disadvantaged by over capacity, some of which is driven by the lower cost feedstock in the US and the Middle East. This sector will continue to rationalize existing capacity. ExxonMobil's European assets, though, are advantaged versus our peers due to the more efficient operations and the integration that we have with our chemicals and lubricants manufacturing businesses.

You'll see us continue to invest through the business cycle in order to enhance our advantaged position. Now, specific to those investments, they're always focused around key areas like lowering our raw material costs, increasing our higher value product yields, expanding logistics capability and flexibility, and then our mainstay of reducing the operating cost structure, ultimately to high-grade the products to capture market demand.

If I focus specifically, by way of example on the investment in Antwerp delayed coker, that's around investing in conversion capacity to take lower-yield products such as the fuel oil and convert it to a distillate volumes where have higher volume and more margins.

BLAKE FERNANDEZ: Thanks. I will take one more if I could. You may not be able to answer this, but you mentioned the discovery in the Kara Sea with University-1. If I'm not mistaken, I've read some press articles suggesting that Rosneft may decide to pursue the additional drilling on their own due to the sanctions and whatnot. I'm curious how that would unfold with regard to your relationship there and participating in future interests?

JEFF WOODBURY: Right. Blake, thanks for the interest. Clearly, this is an important area for the industry in total, and we certainly appreciate the interest.

Let me first start off by just recognizing the success of the well. We are extremely proud of what the organization has achieved in an extraordinarily remote Artic region, both from a logistics and drilling perspective. The team successfully completed the well with the utmost concern for safety and the environment, and it really does speak to the strength and capability of the organization.

As I said in my prepared comments, I can confirm that we encountered hydrocarbons. This is a very large area. This acreage is over 31 million acres. We've got one pelt penetration in that, so it is premature to make any assessment or really say anymore at this point. We are currently evaluating the results to assess what forward plans will move forward on.

I will remind you that ExxonMobil has a very long-standing and successful business in Russia built on an effective and mutually beneficial relationship with our Russian partners.

OPERATOR: Jason Gammel, Jefferies.

JASON GAMMEL, ANALYST, JEFFERIES & CO.: Thanks very much. Two questions for me, Jeff. The first on the accelerated drilling on onshore North America. I know that Exxon is a Company that will invest throughout the pricing cycle.

Just wondering if the number of rigs that are being employed in these plays is going to be affected by the change that we've seen in pricing conditions just over the last several weeks? Essentially, what level of on onshore price would you need to see before you would, perhaps, start laying down rigs?

The second question, one of your primary competitors just this week successfully IPO'd an MLP with pipeline assets and there's evidently a pretty big value gap between what the stock market is willing to pay for those assets through an MLP and integrated oil stock. Have you considered any form of MLP type of transaction with your pipeline assets?

JEFF WOODBURY: Jason, thanks for those questions. Let me first start with the unconventionals. As I said, really good progress. I give you a lot of details about it. Very proud of what the XTO organization is achieving up there.

Let me say that, these near-term price fluctuations are not going to have an impact on our operational activities. We test all of our investments across a range of economic parameters, including price. I will just say, at a high level, that our current drilling programs and inventory are fairly robust in this price environment. We're very confident with the drilling activity.

As I indicated, we are picking up rigs so that we can continue to progress our resource development activities. It is a very significant part of our growth opportunity and, importantly, our improvement in overall profitability.

More specifically, on the master limited partnership question, I talk a little bit already about our asset management program that, that is a fundamental aspect of how we do our business. It's around making sure that we are making the right choices that are going to maximize value for the shareholder.

We have, through the course of that process, we have really divested or monetized all of our non strategic assets. We've been doing a lot of what you're hearing some folks do today. The remaining assets that we've got in place are very strategic to the integrated model that we have between the upstream, downstream or our chemical business.

The MLPs are generally used as a financing mechanism to raise cash and fund business growth. As you know, with our financial flexibility, we have very low cost of capital. While I will never say no, I would tell you that just the cost-benefit trade-offs for MLPs are unattractive for us given our low cost of capital.

JASON GAMMEL: Very helpful. Thanks Jeff.

JEFF WOODBURY: Thank you, Jason.

OPERATOR: Roger Read, Wells Fargo.

ROGER READ, ANALYST, WELLS FARGO SECURITIES, LLC: Good morning.

JEFF WOODBURY: Good morning, Roger.

ROGER READ: Maybe go along with that capital allocation and other questions that have come on here. CapEx plus or minus $37 billion or maybe I should say minus $37 billion here going forward. You just made the comment, a lot of the non strategic assets have been pared.

If we do find ourselves in a, let's say, $80 to $85 oil environment, between the share repurchases program at around $3 billion a quarter, the CapEx at $37 billion, and maybe not as many assets left to sell, at least from a non strategic or non-core standpoint, how to balance all of that?

What gives? Is it CapEx that gets pulled back? Is it the share repurchase? Is it something else? I'm just curious there.

JEFF WOODBURY: Roger, generally speaking, operating cash flows remain our primary source of funding for both our capital requirements as well as our shareholder distributions. We will access the financial markets when and if needed to fund other commitments. I don't want you to walk away from this thinking that there won't be any other divestment opportunities because it is a continual process.

Think of it as an ongoing upgrade of our overall portfolio whereby we continue organic exploration, identify higher-value assets, we continue to high-grade our downstream and chemical facilities. It's an ongoing process that will likely continue to the yield, periodically, divestment opportunities.

ROGER READ: Okay, thanks. Then, taking another look at your lower-48 unconventional opportunities, and ranking those in terms of returns or growth plus returns, to some of your other opportunities. How do they scale up? Or maybe if you just said, what is your best return opportunity today and where they fit in relative to that?

JEFF WOODBURY: I would tell you, Roger, that they all are very strong. There is a lot of variability even within a given resource area, depending on where you are in the trend. I would tell you that ExxonMobil has prime acreage in all three of the areas that I talked about, as well as some others.

We are very well positioned, and as you saw with the Permian basin, we continue to look for opportunities to high-grade the overall portfolio in those basins. Very strong inventory that we continue to high-grade and look for opportunities for progressing the investment opportunities in each one of those fields. We would not expect any change in our operational plans.

OPERATOR: Allen Good, Morningstar Investment Research

ALLEN GOOD, ANALYST, MORNINGSTAR: Good morning. Just another follow-up question on the lower-48 unconventional. As you mentioned you've been pretty active in Permian acquisitions. I was just wondering what's Exxon's thought as far as what is the right size Permian position that you eventually want to get to get that to scale? Is there a preference for Permian acquisitions relative to Woodford and Bakken, or has it just been a case of value?

JEFF WOODBURY: Allen, it's always a case of value for us. I wouldn't say that we are excluding any opportunity in the US or internationally. We have found a number of opportunities to high-grade the portfolio in the Permian, recently, but we continue to keep very well alert to other opportunities that may come up.

Maybe even with the current decrease in prices, we may have additional opportunities that we'll find are complementary to our business and can increase our overall underlying value. I would extend that beyond the US. As you know, we've leveraged the expertise within the US unconventionals to position ourselves strategically for other unconventional opportunities globally.

ALLEN GOOD: Great. Thanks. Just one on the downstream, Exxon obviously has a very large downstream global footprint. Can you give us any color on what you're seeing as far as the demand side given the slide we've seen in oil prices? I know a lot of concern out there is, not necessarily on the supply side, but weak demand. I was wondering if you've seen any changes in the demand patterns of late given the lower prices?

JEFF WOODBURY: As I said in the presentation, we did see some margin improvement. Generally, demand has been fairly strong within the US, particularly in our chemicals business, but in Europe, Asia-Pacific demand has been down. That's really a function of building capacity faster than demand, as well as economic weakness.

But you've got to step back, and from a chemicals perspective for instance, we are expecting demand to grow at 1.5% above GDP. We are a long-term business, where we invest for the long term. It's all fundamental to our energy outlook and our demand projections.

OPERATOR: Paul Cheng, Barclays.

PAUL CHENG, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Hey, Jeff. Good morning.

JEFF WOODBURY: Good morning, Paul.

PAUL CHENG: First, just want to add my welcome to the investor relations.

JEFF WOODBURY: Thank you, Paul.

PAUL CHENG: I just have a quick question. On the page 11 of your presentation, the other is a negative $1.1 billion comparing to the second quarter. In the second quarter, there is about a $1.6 billion of the asset sales gain related to the Hong Kong Power and your exploration expand is lower, so that may be adding another $100 million, $150 million in earnings. That is about a $300 million to $400 million of other benefit, can you help us in terms of what that benefit may be, the nature?

JEFF WOODBURY: So, you are looking at, Paul, the sequential earnings reconciliation?

PAUL CHENG: That's correct

JEFF WOODBURY: As I said in the presentation, that was down about $1.1 billion. I would, at a high level, say that it's asset management is down about $1.3 billion. It's a net effect of the absence of Hong Kong Power as well as other acquisition activities that occurred during that period, as well as you, I think you appropriately pointed out, that other operational items were positive, by about $160 million, due to lower OpEx primarily in exploration, as well as some minor forex benefits.

PAUL CHENG: So, you are saying that the asset sales swing is $1.3 billion, so that means we have about $300 million or so in asset sales gain in this quarter?

JEFF WOODBURY: Yes, that's correct.

OPERATOR: Iain Read, BMO.

IAIN READ, ANALYST, BMO CAPITAL MARKETS: Hi, Jeff.

JEFF WOODBURY: Good morning, Iain. How are you?

IAIN READ: Very good. Can I just ask a quick question about Papua New Guinea? I know you've got the first pilot project, or at least phase one fully on stream. What is your thinking about adding the third train, utilizing the additional gas that the joint venture has discovered in the region? And also, potentially, processing third-party gas or building another train to process third-party gas? Could you just outline next, thinking about that?

JEFF WOODBURY: Sure, Iain. Thanks for bringing the Papua New Guinea, because it's another very successful accomplishment for the organization. I would tell you that everything is on the table in terms of what we do there. Obviously, first and foremost in terms of our priorities, is to make sure that we are very comfortable with the operating structure. As I said, it started up early. We got it up to peak production. It is operating very well. The project team and the operations organization has done a remarkable job there.

You are aware that there is some -- we have maintained an active exploration program on Papua New Guinea. We have picked up some additional resource. There are some other exploration opportunities that we are considering.

I would tell you that the next step would be to consider, and has been under review, the economic viability for incremental trains there at the LNG plant. It was designed in order to easily tie in additional trains. We are very well positioned, and as you can appreciate, the incremental cost to expand the PNG facility is going to be much, much more competitive than another greenfield site.

In summary, I'd say that we're very pleased with the resource, the overall potential and performance of Papua New Guinea. We've got some additional resource out there with successful pinioning discovery. We are looking for opportunities to add to it. That can come either through additional resource development or, as you indicated, processing third party gas.

IAIN READ: Okay, thanks. Just one further thing. On the Russian sanctions, how is that affecting your Sakhalin developments and also the LNG project, which your progressing with, with Rosneft?

JEFF WOODBURY: Very good. I failed to mention that when we were talking about Russia earlier. Just to clarify for everyone, that the sanctions do not apply to Sakhalin-1 or our Far East LNG facility. The current program is moving forward. I talked about Arkutun-Dagi. Sakhalin has been producing phenomenally. I think it's representative of a very effective joint-venture relationship with our Russian partners and the other partners in the JV.

OPERATOR: Doug Leggate, Bank of American Merrill Lynch.

JASON SMITH, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Hi, Jeff. It's actually Jason Smith on for Doug. How are you?

JEFF WOODBURY: Good morning, Jason.

JASON SMITH: Most of my questions have been answered. I just have one quick one, maybe to look at lower oil prices from a different perspective. One of the key issues, I think, in your production trajectory in the last few years has been the loss of PSC volume as a result of rising oil prices. Can you provide some sensitivity or an update on how much production you get back if oil stays around $85?

JEFF WOODBURY: Jason, I don't have a specific numbers at the price that you stated, but I will tell you that sequentially, in our sequential earnings, that there were some positive effects to associated with PSC volumes. It was under 10,000 barrels a day second quarter to third quarter.

JASON SMITH: Got it, okay. Thanks. That's all for me.

OPERATOR: Ryan Todd, Deutsche Bank.

RYAN TODD, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Great. Thanks. Good morning, gentlemen. A question, you've already touched on CapEx and CapEx outlook a few times during the call. If we take a step back and look at a number of your European peers, there's been a clear trend and maybe for a variety of reasons, a clear message and strong effort towards capital constraint, deferral of certain projects and trying to inflate free cash flow going forward for that point of view. It's been a bit more muted here in the US.

Can you think about maybe how -- if there's been a shift in your approach to project economics and relative returns and profitability, as you look at your go-forward portfolio and the potential to constrain more CapEx and whether lower oil prices impacts that whatsoever?

JEFF WOODBURY: We always are mindful of what's happening in the near future, but I keep on falling back that we are a long-term investor. Our plans are set well in advance. As I said earlier, our investment portfolio is tested across the full range of economic parameters, including price, so that we have the comfort that we're going to end up generating a favorable return regardless of the type of price fluctuations that we would test on.

So, we always do a stress test. We feel like the program is robust. That is one of the real strengths of ExxonMobil with our integrated business model, is that we invest through these business cycles and we've got the financial flexibility in order to fund those projects if we need some additional capital.

RYAN TODD: Okay. Thanks. Maybe just one more, specifically on the Tanzania. You guys have discovered an awful lot of gas to date. Can you give us any thoughts in terms of timing, in terms of your expectations and go-forward plans there?

JEFF WOODBURY: On Tanzania, a very good progress between Statoil and ExxonMobil, as I said, seven gas discoveries, now over 21 TCF in place. There is a consortium that has come together that have evaluated potential sites for a common onshore LNG facility. We have made a recommendation to the government of Tanzania regarding the plant site location. Studies are progressing to determine the optimal development plan for Tanzania Block 2 resource as an LNG development.

It really is at very early stages, and it's really too early to determine a specific startup date or an overall design capacity or even the capital investment, but fundamental for us to move forward is a competitive, predictable and durable fiscal environment to ensure that a investment of this scale and complexity is going to generate an acceptable return for our shareholders.

OPERATOR: Paul Sankey, Wolfe Research.

PAUL SANKEY, ANALYST, WOLFE RESEARCH: Hi. Good morning, Mr. Woodbury. Welcome from me, too. On this CapEx question that we keep going back to, it is an interesting number that you give us you. You talked, again to be clear, about a peak of CapEx in 2013. Then, you said next year's around $37 billion, in line with this year.

Could you talk a little bit about the components of that? Because we have some interesting variation in your spending, for example, even in the latest quarter, where we're seeing lower upstream spending, somewhat higher downstream and chemicals. Beyond that -- beyond the $37 billion next year, would we go down -- would we potentially have even lower CapEx in the longer-term future, given that you've highlighted the extent to which you've reached a peak in 2013 as a function of recapitalizing the upstream?

JEFF WOODBURY: Right, Paul. As I said, we grew up to $42.5 billion in 2013. Again, I want to make the point that that was a deliberate decision given the resource opportunities that we had before us and the maturity of those and the confidence that we had that we would generate very favorable returns for our shareholders.

Likewise, it's a conscious decision to bring our upstream spending down to a normal spend pattern. As we communicated in early this year, in our analyst meeting, we are projecting that to fall down to just south of $37 billion over the 2015 to 2017 period.

Yes, there is this larger increase in the downstream and chemical business. That is focused on, like I talked about Antwerp, focused on making strategic investments that are going to better advantage our downstream facilities relative to industry, such as the North America ethane cracker at Baytown.

PAUL SANKEY: I wanted to pick you up on the more normal that your describing at level of CapEx. What do you mean by that? How do you define that normal level?

JEFF WOODBURY: If you look at the overall portfolio and the maturity of the resources going forward, Paul, it's based on our judgment as to when those resources are going to be ready, whether they be the definition of the resource, the definition of the development concept, the regulatory or fiscal regime. It's a matter of when we believe they are ready to move forward and we have an optimal development plan in place.

That's really what I mean by normal. It's looking at our portfolio, as opposed to several years back when we saw these really large projects that came to fruition together that provided a huge opportunity for the Corporation that we capitalized on.

PAUL SANKEY: I'm with you. Going back to the PSC question. Obviously, if prices were to stay here, you've spoke about the 2Q to Q3, but obviously, it is a relatively minor operize shift. At the moment you're guiding to 4.1 million barrels a day next year. I assume that you will continuing with the guidance laid out at the analyst meeting, but the obvious expectation would be that that number would come in higher as a result of lower oil prices, even though, I know there is a different whole issue around economics? Broadly speaking, that would be what we should work towards, right?

JEFF WOODBURY: I think, Paul, I would suggest that our guidance is no different from March at the analyst meeting. Again, we look at a range over a period of time. Prices, the market is going to drive what the prices do. We make our best judgment as to where we are going to fit in that in order to give you the guidance.

If you think about what we said back in the analyst meeting, we said that we would grow from about 4 million barrels a day up to 4.3 million oil equivalent barrels a day by 2017. In doing so, we were adding about 1 million oil equivalent barrels a day of capacity. I will remind you that a large part of that, 95% plus of that, was liquid and liquids-linked gas production.

It will change our production mix from about 64% liquids and liquids-linked, today, to just south of 70% in 2017. In summary, I would say our guidance on volumes is still consistent with what we shared with you in March. Thank you, Paul

OPERATOR: Alastair Syme, Citi.

ALASTAIR SYME, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Hi, Jeff. A couple of very quick questions. Can you highlight a little bit how much you're spending on the US shale piece? Is that something you be willing to, or part, disclose? Secondly, I was picking up of the comment you made about Qatar gas volumes and way they moved year on year. Just wanted to get a wee bit of explanation for why that was? Thank you.

JEFF WOODBURY: Sure. On the first part, on the US shale, as you can appreciate, we're very focused in that area, but we really don't break it down beyond the country itself. You can see that in our financial and operating -- the additional data in the investor relations information. With respect to Qatar, this is really associated with entitlement impacts associated with the Al Khaleej gas project.

ALASTAIR SYME: Is it a permanent ratchet down or is it temporal?

JEFF WOODBURY: No, it's associated with prices.

ALASTAIR SYME: Great. Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: John Herrlin, Societe Generale.

JOHN HERRLIN, ANALYST, SOCIETE GENERALE: Thank you. Most everything's been asked, Jeff. Regarding the shale economic thresholds in North America, with the Bakken it sounded like you have a different kind of completion. It's not plug-and-perf, it's somewhat different. Can you elaborate a little bit more? Also, with of that completion, are you also doing a similar thing in Argentina?

JEFF WOODBURY: Good question, John. I would tell you that, as I said in my comments, the XTO expertise that we've built up in the unconventionals is being leveraged globally. We are continuing to grow our capability there. As I shared in my prepared comments, the improvements that we've seen not only in reducing overall cost but improving the productivity, if you will, the manufacturing process of drilling these wells. A key element of that has been the application of technology. As I said in my prepared comments, one of the benefits that we've used in Bakken has been this completion technology, which is proprietary ExxonMobil technology, called extrac, and that allows us to avoid putting a whole bunch of plugs in the well and makes it much more efficient and safer operation for completion installation.

To close on your question about Argentina, I would broaden that and say that all of these learnings in unconventional are being positioned to apply elsewhere within our portfolio. Once again, it's just another really good example of our industry-leading performance in our capability. That positions us very well to compete for resources.

JOHN HERRLIN: Great, thank you very much.

JEFF WOODBURY: Thanks, John.

OPERATOR: Guy Baber, Simmons & Company.

GUY BABER, ANALYST, SIMMONS & COMPANY INTERNATIONAL: Thanks very much for squeezing me in here. Two quick ones for me. First, on just a big picture question around exploration. Generally speaking, can you just remind me what percentage of the total capital budget this year is allocated to exploration appraisal activity? Then, optimally, where would you like to see that percentage longer term, just to sustain the long-term opportunities set, reserve maturation?

Also, how comfortable you may be in flexing that down at any point in the cycle for a given year? That's number one. Just dots on the exploration budget.

Secondly, just if you could quickly talk about the balance sheet? You mentioned you'd accessed financial markets if need be and your net debt to total cap, obviously low compared to most peers, but actually high relative towards it being at the last tenure period. Could you just remind us of your target leverage ratio and framework also, and just where you are comfortable in taking leverage?

JEFF WOODBURY: Guy, let me first start with the second half of your first question about whether we would flex down our exploration? I would tell you that we are opportunity driven. We've got tremendous opportunities around the world. We have got very robust inventory. We're very well positioned to compete. As I said earlier, it's all around how do you go ahead and upgrade the value of overall resource base? From an exploration perspective, given our financial flexibility, given the opportunities, we have really got to be focused on the horizon around high-grading our portfolio and positioning ourselves strategically around the globe.

Specific to our budget, we don't break that type of information out in terms of the various components within exploration budget, but I'd like you to think about our exploration activity as a means to further high-grade our overall portfolio.

On the second point on our leverage ratio, there is no target. We have been fairly consistent over the last couple of years. We have maintained a AAA credit rating.

I want you all to think about it that, our focus is around value. It's not always -- or not a focus around market share or volume, it's around value. How can we create greater value? We will use that balance sheet to achieve that objective when we think it's appropriate.

OPERATOR: Pavel Molchanov, Raymond James.

PAVEL MOLCHANOV, ANALYST, RAYMOND JAMES & ASSOCIATES, INC.: Thanks very much. Just one more from me on Russia, if I may? You touched on the policy sanctions related uncertainty in relation to the Arctic. Are there any other operations within Russia that have had to be postponed, deferred or reduced because of the sanctions rules?

JEFF WOODBURY: You may recall that we have a number of joint ventures throughout Russia. We talked about the Kara Sea. We also have a venture in the Black Sea and West Siberia. Then lastly, a number of ventures within the Russian Artic shelf. If you think about sanctions, they deal with, specifically, deepwater, unconventional resources and Artic activities, so yes, the joint ventures I just summarized for you are included within the scope of the sanctions.

PAVEL MOLCHANOV: So have all of the activities in those JVs been suspended as a result?

JEFF WOODBURY: We are fully complying with the sanctions and regulatory requirements.

OPERATOR: Paul Cheng, Barclays.

PAUL CHENG: Hey, Jeff. Two quick one. First, on relate to our investment in Europe refining, do you have any plan to do a similar investment in your US refining system?

Second question, I think in your comments you saying that you have some over lift in the quarter, can you quantify how big is that or how much is the impact in the quarter? Also, at the end of the third quarter, from a inventory standpoint, are you guys neutral or underneath or over neath? Thank you.

JEFF WOODBURY: Thank you, Paul. On your first question around additional investments, I would just say broadly that we regularly evaluate our global portfolio where we have opportunities for investment, as I've already discussed, with the areas targeting on things like expanding our feedstock flexibility or our logistics or reducing our cost structure. We have a lot of conversion capacity in the US already, but as, generally speaking, Paul, as a matter of practice we just don't want to comment or speculate on any particular opportunities or investments that we may or may not be considering. When they are ready and we've made a decision, we will go ahead and share that more broadly.

The second question was around over lift. I will just -- if I can, I'll refer back to our quarter-on-quarter upstream earnings reconciliation. If you remember, there was a volume mix component about positive $340 million. First and foremost, there's a fairly sizable component associated with the project, high-margin project and program activity of over $500 million.

As I said during my prepared comments, it really highlights the progress that we are making on our unit profitability and the higher-value volumes, not for the sake of growing volume but for the sake of capturing value. There was an over lift component that was positive and then there was an offsetting decrease in a number of areas such as entitlements decline, downtime, and some asset management.

OPERATOR: That does conclude today's question-and-answer session. Mr. Woodbury, at this time I would like to turn the conference back to for any additional or closing remarks.

JEFF WOODBURY: Well, to conclude, thank you all for your time and your interest this morning. Certainly, very good questions and I do look forward to further dialogue with you all in the near future. Thank you.

OPERATOR: That does conclude today's conference. Thank you all for your participation.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
exxn : Exxon Mobil Corporation
   IN
i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1300003 : Crude Petroleum Extraction | iextra : Natural Gas/Oil Extraction
   NS
c151 : Earnings | nitv : Interviews | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Financial Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020141102eaav0053d
  


 HD
 Q2  2014  Exxon  Mobil Corp Earnings Call - Final
   WC
10,319 words
   PD
31 July 2014
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©014 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day and welcome to the Exxon Mobil Corporation second-quarter 2014 earnings conference call. Today's conference is being recorded. At this time for opening remarks I would like to turn the conference over to the Vice President of Investor Relations and Secretary, Mr. David Rosenthal. Please go ahead, sir.

   TD
DAVID ROSENTHAL, VP OF IR AND SECRETARY, EXXON MOBIL CORPORATION: Good morning and welcome to ExxonMobil's second-quarter earnings call and webcast.

The focus of this call is ExxonMobil's financial and operating results for the second quarter. I will refer to the slides that are available through the investors section of our website. Before we go further, I would like to draw your attention to our cautionary statement shown on slide 2.

Moving to slide 3, we provide an overview of some of the external factors impacting our results. Global economic growth improved modestly in the second quarter. US economic activity recovered after contracting in the first quarter. China's growth rate strengthened due to increased exports and government stimulus; while Europe's economic recovery remained moderate.

Energy markets delivered mixed results. WTI prices increased by more than $4 a barrel, narrowing the discount to Brent; while Western Canadian select prices also strengthened. US natural gas prices decreased compared to the first quarter. Global industry refining margins strengthened; while strong chemical commodity margins were offset by weaker specialty margins.

Turning now to the financial results, as shown on slide 4, ExxonMobil's second-quarter earnings were $8.8 billion, or $2.05 per share. The Corporation distributed $6 billion to shareholders in the quarter through dividends and our share repurchase program. Share purchases to reduce shares outstanding were $3 billion.

CapEx was $9.8 billion in the quarter and $18.2 billion year to date, down 17% from the first half of 2013. Cash flow from operations and asset sales was $12.8 billion, including proceeds associated with asset sales of $2.6 billion. At the end of the quarter, cash totaled $6.3 billion and debt was $21.8 billion.

The next slide provides additional detail on second-quarter sources and uses of funds. Over the quarter, cash increased by about $500 million from $5.8 billion to $6.3 billion. Earnings, depreciation expense, changes in working capital and other items, and our ongoing asset management program yielded $12.8 billion of cash flow from operations and asset sales.

Uses included net investments in the business of $6.7 billion and shareholder distributions of $6 billion. Other financing activities increased cash by $400 million. Share purchases to reduce shares outstanding are expected to be $3 billion in the third quarter of 2014.

Moving on to slide 6 and a review of our segmented results, ExxonMobil's second-quarter earnings of $8.8 billion increased by $1.9 billion from the second quarter 2013, primarily reflecting gains on asset sales and higher earnings across all business segments. In the sequential quarter comparison, shown on slide 7, earnings decreased by $320 million, as lower downstream and chemical earnings and higher corporate and financing expenses were partly offset by higher upstream earnings. Guidance for corporate and financing expenses remains at $500 million to $700 million a quarter.

Turning now to the upstream financial and operating results, and starting on slide 8, upstream earnings in the second quarter were $7.9 billion, an increase of $1.6 billion versus the second quarter of 2013. Realizations increased earnings by $580 million, primarily driven by higher liquids realizations.

On a worldwide basis, crude oil realizations increased by $4.48 per barrel. Worldwide natural gas realizations decreased $0.39 per 1,000 cubic feet, as higher US gas prices were offset by lower international realizations. Volume and mix effects increased earnings by $200 million due to a net underlift, primarily in West Africa, and lower gas volumes.

Excluding the underlift impact, volume mix was a positive factor of about $50 million, reflecting higher-margin production growth primarily from North America and Papua New Guinea. All other items increased earnings by $1.2 billion, mainly due to gains on asset sales in Hong Kong.

Moving to slide 9, excluding the impact of the Abu Dhabi onshore concession expiry, oil equivalent production decreased by 2.3% compared to the second quarter of last year. Liquids production was up 8,000 barrels per day.

Increased US liquids production and Kearl volumes were mostly offset by scheduled maintenance in Canada and Kazakhstan, base decline and unfavorable entitlement and divestment impacts. Natural gas production was down 604 million cubic feet per day, as lower weather-related demand in Europe and expected field decline were partly offset by new production from PNG LNG.

Turning now to the sequential comparison, starting on slide 10, upstream earnings increased $98 million versus the first quarter. Realizations reduced earnings by $200 million. Volume and mix effects decreased earnings by $620 million, reflecting expected lower seasonal demand in Europe, scheduled maintenance, and underlift impacts, primarily in West Africa.

All other items had a positive impact of $920 million, primarily driven by net gains on asset sales. Upstream after-tax earnings per barrel were $23.07 excluding the impact of noncontrolling interest volumes.

Moving to slide 11, excluding the impact of the Abu Dhabi onshore concession expiry, volumes were down 288,000 oil equivalent barrels per day, or about 6.9% sequentially. Liquids production was down 77,000 barrels per day, mainly due to scheduled maintenance in Canada, Kazakhstan and the North Sea, along with unfavorable entitlement impacts. Increased US liquids production provided a partial offset. Natural gas volumes were down 1.3 billion cubic feet per day, reflecting lower seasonal demand in Europe and Qatar downtime, partly offset by the addition of PNG LNG volumes.

Moving now to the downstream financial and operating results, starting on slide 12, downstream earnings for the first quarter were $711 million, up $315 million from the second quarter of 2013. Margins decreased earnings by $330 million driven by lower non-US refining margins. Volume and mix effects increased earnings by $280 million, reflecting reduced planned maintenance activities. Other items increased earnings by $370 million, primarily due to the absence of Dartmouth refinery conversion costs and lower maintenance expenses.

Turning to slide 13, sequentially, second quarter downstream earnings decreased by $102 million, primarily due to unfavorable volume mix effects and higher maintenance activities, partially offset by higher margins.

Moving now to the chemical financial and operating results, and starting on slide 14, second-quarter chemical earnings were $841 million, up $85 million versus the prior-year quarter, mainly due to favorable volume mix and ForEx effects. Stronger commodity margins were offset by weaker specialties margins.

Moving to slide 15, sequentially chemical earnings decreased by $206 million, primarily due to lower specialty margins and higher planned maintenance activities.

Moving now to an update on year-to-date cash flow growth, as shown on slide 16, strong free cash flow of $14.8 billion represented an increase of $12.1 billion compared to the first half of 2013. Cash flow from operations and asset sales of $29 billion more than covered the $14.2 billion invested in the business and $11.7 billion distributed to shareholders, with remaining cash used for other financing activities in addition to our cash balance. This year-to-date free cash flow growth reflects our strong operational performance, ongoing asset management program, and a disciplined capital allocation approach.

As highlighted in our March analyst meeting, we are starting up a number of major projects that will add significant profitable volume growth. Our world-class project execution capabilities are enabling us to make significant progress and achieve key milestones.

One of these milestones was the PNG LNG project start up in April, which was months ahead of schedule. We have now ramped up to full production through both LNG trains, and are currently producing close to 1 billion cubic feet of gas per day. Through July, we have already loaded 15 cargoes for delivery to customers in Asia.

The project was completed below the $19 billion budget announced in 2012. And produces LNG at a unit cost that is one of the lowest in the region. This achievement is a good example of how ExxonMobil creates value through technology applications and leading project execution capabilities. Learnings will be applied to other LNG projects that we plan to progress.

In Angola, the CLOV project, of which ExxonMobil owns a 20% interest, started operations in June. Production is now ramping up and expected to reach 160,000 barrels per day.

Offshore Sakhalin Island, the topside of the Berkut platform, has been installed onto the gravity-based structure at the Arkutun-Dagi field. The operations set a world record for installation of the heaviest integrated topside structure, weighing over 42,000 tons, and using the world's largest ocean-going barge to carry and then set the structure. Berkut is now the largest offshore oil and gas production platform in Russia. The facility will start up later this year and will add up to 90,000 barrels per day to Sakhalin oil production.

Let me now provide a quick update on Kashagan. The project partners have agreed to work towards a progressive transition from the current venture model to a consolidated joint venture company operating under a single corporate management system, integrating existing processes and tools from the venture entities. An experienced ExxonMobil executive has been appointed as the managing director of the operating company.

Regarding the pipeline issues, the current assessment is that both oil and gas pipelines need to be replaced. The North Caspian Operating Company is now developing a full replacement plan.

Turning now to slide 18 for an update on our exploration activities, in Argentina, we drilled and successfully completed two ExxonMobil-operated horizontal wells in Vaca Muerta formation. The Bajo Del Choique X-2 well flowed at an average rate of 770 barrels of oil per day; while the La Invernada X-3 well will be flow tested during the third quarter. Our active program continues with additional wells planned to be drilled in the second half of the year.

In Tanzania, Statoil and ExxonMobil made an additional discovery in Block 2. The Piri-1 well discovered gas in a high-quality reservoir, confirming an additional 2 to 3 TCF of gas in place. Six gas discoveries in Block 2 have been made to date, with total resource in place estimated at 20 TCF. ExxonMobil, Statoil, BG and Ophir completed an evaluation of potential sites for our common onshore LNG plant, and made a location recommendation to the government of Tanzania.

Drilling operations are also currently underway on two blocks in the Kurdistan region of Iraq. At Pirmam we have successfully drilled the target depth, and are preparing to test the well in the third quarter. At Alqosh we are drilling ahead, and anticipate reaching target depth in the third quarter.

In Romania we have spud the Domino 2 well in the Neptune block in the Black Sea. Data collected from the well will aid in the development planning for the gas field discovered in 2012 by the Domino 1 well. We will then move on to additional exploration drilling in the block.

Turning now to slide 19, and an update on our downstream business, during the quarter, we achieved notable investment milestones to increase high-value product sales. We commissioned the clean fuels project at the Saudi AramcoMobil refinery in Saudi Arabia. The product reduces sulfur levels in gasoline and diesel by more than 98% to meet more fuel stringent standards in the Kingdom. The project included new hydrotreating and sulfur recovery facilities, and started up successfully and on budget.

In China, we completed the expansion of the Tianxin lubricants plant to increase the supply of high-value Mobil-branded lubricants. Work is also underway to significantly increase the blending capacity at the Tainxin lubricant plant, with expected completion by the end of 2015. Together, at these two projects will increase our local capacity by 75% and help meet the growing demand for high-quality lubricants in China.

We also recently approved a project to install a new 50,000 barrels per day delayed coker unit at our Antwerp refinery in Belgium. The unit will convert low-value residual oil from our Northwest Europe refineries into higher-value transportation fuel products such as diesel. This is another example of selective investments we are making at our competitively advantaged sites, further strengthening our industry-leading portfolio. Startup is planned for 2017.

Turning now to slide 20 and an update on our chemical business, where we are also progressing several projects to grow high-value product sales. We received all final regulatory approvals, and started construction of a multi-billion-dollar ethane cracker at our existing fully integrated Baytown, Texas complex and associated premium product facilities in nearby Mont Belvieu. The steam cracker will have a capacity of up to 1.5 million tons per year, and provide ethylene feedstock for further chemical processing at two new 650,000 tons per year high-performance polyethylene lines.

This project is made possible in large part by abundant affordable supplies of US natural gas for energy and chemical feedstock. The expansion will enable us to economically supply rapidly growing demand for high-value polyethylene products used in a variety of consumer and industrial applications. Startup is planned in 2017.

We also recently approved expansions of our specialty hydrocarbon fluid facilities in Antwerp and Singapore. These projects will upgrade refinery streams into higher-value specialty chemical products to serve rapidly growing demand in extended reach drilling, hydraulic fracturing and other industrial applications. These investments underscore the benefits of our business integration and technology advantage to capture advantaged feedstocks and increase high-value product sales. Startups are planned in 2015 and 2016.

I would like to conclude today's presentation with a summary of our year-to-date performance. ExxonMobil's strong financial and operating results reflect our ability to grow cash flow and provide robust shareholder returns, as we presented during the analyst meeting in March.

Total earnings year-to-date, $17.9 billion reflecting solid operating performance across all of our businesses and our ongoing asset management program. In the upstream, production of 4 million oil equivalent barrels per day is right in line with our plans. Actions we took to improve upstream profitability and grow higher-margin production increased unit earnings to $22.19 per barrel up from $18.03 a barrel in 2013.

In the downstream and chemical businesses, we progressed attractive investments to strengthen the portfolio and continue to leverage integration benefits. Our strong operating results, combined with our disciplined capital allocation approach, generated robust free cash flow of $14.8 billion, an increase of $12.1 billion compared to the first half of 2013. This strong performance enabled us to maintain industry-leading shareholder distributions.

That concludes my prepared remarks and I would now be happy to take your questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions)

Paul Sankey, Wolfe Research.

PAUL SANKEY, ANALYST, WOLFE RESEARCH: David, what has the impact of sanctions been on your operations in Russia?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Paul, I know our activities in Russia are a matter of great interest to you and everybody else on the call. And rightfully so. But what I can tell you as of this morning is that we are waiting for further details on the sanctions in order to better understand how we need to comply. But I have to tell you, given that we simply don't have sufficient information, I'm just not in a position this morning to comment any further on the impact of the sanctions.

PAUL SANKEY: Okay. The CapEx in Russia, is that financed from within Russia? I was thinking given the scale of your operations in Sakhalin, maybe it was an internal Russian financing operation.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: I really don't have the details of that. We finance our operations in a number of different ways. And I don't really have a specific comment on Sakhalin or the rest of our activities.

PAUL SANKEY: So, essentially the status is that you're waiting for more clarification on any limits that may be placed on investment and operations?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: As you know, what's been in the press has been people's thoughts and expectations, but we really just haven't seen the detailed written sanctions. And, so, until we have those and have a chance to assess them and evaluate them, again it just puts me in a position this morning where I really can't make any specific comments.

PAUL SANKEY: Understood. And then my follow-up is totally separate. The construction started at Baytown you highlighted, that I think is advanced against schedule, isn't it? And is that fully permitted and obviously final investment decision and everything else? And what is the expected completion date? Thank you.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: That project is right on our plan. We do have all of our permits in place. Construction has started. We put that picture in the slides this morning to show we're digging dirt and the project's underway.

Even throughout the permitting process, we were well underway getting all the engineering lined up, all the contractors, all the supply chain, so that once we had the permits, we were ready to go. So, no change to what we told you at the analyst meeting. We're on schedule so far. And we do expect to have that project up and running sometime in 2017.

PAUL SANKEY: Thank you, David.

OPERATOR: Doug Leggate, Bank of America Merrill Lynch.

DOUG LEGGATE, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: A couple questions, please. The promise of improving operating cash flow is obviously a big thing from your analyst day. We don't really see any substantial margin change this quarter with the startup of PNG and I guess [Carol] ramping up. So, I'm just wondering if you can frame for us how you see, what the drivers of that change in cash flow are in terms, perhaps, of how the margin could change for your new portfolio of assets, which I guess will be about a quarter of the Company in 2017? Any color you can give qualitatively, if necessary, but just to give some comfort that that turn is coming. And I've got a follow-up, please.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Sure, Doug. Let's talk about that a little bit as we look at how things have really evolved over the last, say, 12 months. We have seen some pretty significant increase in our unit profitability and our ability to capture changes in the realizations as they come along.

If I look at where we are so far in the first half of 2014 on upstream profitability relative to 2013, we're up over $4 a barrel on unit profitability. And if I go back and I take out all of the asset management, asset sales, related gains in all the periods, unit profitability is up right at $2.

So, I think you're starting to see the impact of the trend that we talked about in the analyst meeting of reducing our exposure to lower-margin barrels and barrels where we don't have quite the upside potential. And you're just now starting to see some of the projects that we've talked extensively about coming online.

Papua New Guinea LNG is an example. It just started up but it's one of several projects to come on in the next couple years, as we talked about at the analyst meeting, all of which are accretive to average unit profitability and average unit cash flow.

So I think in our production volumes we're starting to see the benefit of that. Again, it's early. We've just started up the project. We have a number of projects yet to come over the course of the year. Of course, Papua New Guinea will be ramping up. We'll have the Lucius project coming up later in the year.

And I might give you an update on that. As you know, at the time of the analyst meeting, and when we put out our F&O review, we had a 15% interest in the Lucius project. That interest is now up to a little over 23% through a normal redetermination exercise, as well as our exercising our preemptive rights on the Apache sales. So, that project will be starting up later this year and, again, we'll have about 23% of those barrels.

Hadrian South will also start up at the same time. So, again, the projects we talked about, are on schedule and are coming online and they will be accretive to the unit profitability we talked about.

There's a number of other things that you see as we progress through in looking at the year-to-date cash flow, including an active asset management program. And you saw the impact of that. So, as I look back, really, at the first half and staying away from the first quarter versus the second quarter and looking at the six months, we are spot on.

The outlook we gave you on production in the analyst meeting, as you've seen in our supplement, US liquids production is up fairly significantly. And we continue to grow that production as we said we would. That will also add to the improving margins.

So, cash flow's good, free cash flow is dramatically better than last year. We're continuing to provide the shareholder with strong returns. We raised the dividend again, as you know, almost 10% in the second quarter.

So, as we sit back and we look at the first-half results and compared to what our plans were and compared to last year, we're very encouraged and very confident that we'll continue to deliver the growth that we had talked about and continue to trend up on unit profitability and the cash flow. So from our perspective, everything is right on track. And we look forward to continuing to deliver the commitments we've made to the shareholder.

DOUG LEGGATE: Thanks for the full answer, David. I'll make my follow-up a very quick one hopefully. Assuming the spending level does hold around the $37 billion number, all things equal, the age-old question for you guys, you're going to have a lot of free cash flow. How are you thinking about the dividend nowadays as opposed to stepping up the buyback? Because when we traveled recently I think your message was cash flow will go back to shareholders. So, if you could help frame the importance of one over the other as you stabilize the underlying production base, that would be helpful. And I'll leave it there. Thanks.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Sure. Thanks, Doug. As you mentioned, at constant prices, yes, as we deliver the plan that we outlined at the analyst meeting we do expect to see continued increase in our cash flow generation. And keeping the CapEx at the levels we discussed would by definition improve free cash flow, again just as we've seen dramatically here in the first half.

In terms of the capital allocation, no change to our prior approach. We're going to stay disciplined on the capital. We're going to fund our best projects. And I think as we've talked about in the analyst meeting and folks are beginning to recognize, our opportunity portfolio is quite extensive at this point. And that's going to allow us to be selective.

So, we'll continue to be disciplined on the capital side. We will continue to pay a very consistent and increasing dividend over time. And I think you've you certainly seen evidence of that over the last few years. And after you accomplish those two things, the rest of the cash will flow back to the shareholder through the share buyback program.

So no change in approach. No change in how we're doing our capital allocation. But, again, we are certainly looking forward to continued success in our project ramp up, continued success in upgrading the value of our molecules in the downstream in chemical, and delivering that profitable growth that we talked about a lot in the analyst meeting. So thank you.

DOUG LEGGATE: Thanks, David.

OPERATOR: Ed Westlake, Credit Suisse.

ED WESTLAKE, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Very small question first. Just asset sale gains in the quarter, if you shout out the actual number in this quarter if you have that?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Sure. In total, the gains from asset sales on an absolute basis were about $1.7 billion, $1.6 billion of that in the upstream and the other $100 million in the downstream in chemical.

ED WESTLAKE: Okay. Thanks. That's helpful always. Let's talk bigger picture about the Permian. Obviously at the analyst day you spoke about 1.5 million acres. Do you have a breakdown of how much of that is CBP, how much of that is Midland, and how much might be in the Delaware basin for more the application of horizontal drilling?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Sure. I'll start out by saying if you look at that whole 1.5 million acres, it is spread throughout the Midland basin and the Delaware basin. We're in a number of different areas, and that really gives us the opportunity to do a number of things, to grow our production there, including a lot of things in the conventional fields, water floods, CO2 floods.

We've got 65 workover rigs still running in the Permian in addition to the other rigs that we have drilling exploration wells. So, we have a lot of exposure to both conventional and unconventional, again broadly across the basin in Texas and in New Mexico.

As we look at the various areas that I know people are interested in, we certainly have some very good acreage in the prime areas for the Wolfcamp. And we're just getting started in there. Bone Springs is another one that we're working on.

So, when you look at this ramp-up in growth that we've seen to date, and you've seen the numbers of the significant growth in liquids in the US year over year, we're just now beginning to scratch the unconventional plays and getting some of those wells down and see what we've got going on. We've got about five rigs drilling horizontal wells today in, again, the Wolfcamp, the Bone Springs and a number of areas.

We have brought 93 wells online this year. That's up almost 70% from last year about this time. So, a lot of activity, a lot of growth, but just scratching the surface of the potential in that area.

We're excited to have the opportunities that we have across the basin, across the platform. And in particular, the wide variety of things we have to work on in that play. So, it's not just unconventional. It's a number of resource opportunities. And you'll continue to see us ramp up activity there and see that production.

Again, as we talked about at the analyst meeting, that is a big-time focus area for us, as is the Bakken where we're having tremendous success, as well, and the Woodford Ardmore area. I can tell you sitting here mid year, the opportunity is there. We're developing it and we're seeing that production increase right in line with our expectations.

ED WESTLAKE: And if I can be very sneaky, is it fee acreage or is it more recently sold in the Permian? I'm thinking about the royalty position. Some are starting disclose where they are on that.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: We've got most of our acreage is fee acreage. And as you know, that's a big help on the royalties.

ED WESTLAKE: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Blake Fernandez, Howard Weil.

BLAKE FERNANDEZ, ANALYST, HOWARD WEIL INCORPORATED: I had a question for you in the production profile. I know you confirmed that you're on track to meet your full-year target. 2Q came in a bit light compared to what we were looking for. I know you referenced the maintenance and European nominations were weak. Is it fair as we move into second half to think that 2Q is a low point? I know you'll have CLOV ramping up and maybe some of that maintenance coming back online. Or any color you can give us on how to think about second half of the year.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Sure. If we look at the first-half, in particular, if we look sequentially where the volumes came down quite a bit, just on the liquids side, downtime was worth 66,000 barrels a day for us from first quarter to second quarter. So, we had a very heavy maintenance load. Up in Canada, in Kazakhstan at Tangiz and a number of other places, North Sea for example.

So, while we did see the benefit from projects at PNG and Kearl, they were masked by, again, this planned maintenance, seasonal maintenance, but it did have quite an impact on us. As we typically do going forward into the second half, that maintenance gets done and those things come back.

And the other impact we had sequentially again was a sharp reduction in gas sales. I think our demand in Europe was probably worth over 150,000 oil equivalent barrels per day on the gas side. And then we also had some downtime.

So, I'd characterize, if you're looking at the second quarter, characterized by an extremely heavy maintenance load, and your typical seasonal decline in Europe volume coming off a low base because of the low winter. So the offset of that, of course, is PNG LNG starting up. The increase you've seen in the higher-margin US liquids volumes, they just weren't enough to offset these other factors.

As we head into the second half of the year, you will see these maintenance items come back up, as they typically do. And then the project startups that I talked about, full ramp-up of PNG LNG, and then the other projects that I mentioned, Lucius and some of the other ones, We would certainly expect to see the benefit of both of those factors coming out of the second quarter.

And that's why I really wanted to focus a little bit of time this morning on how we're doing year to date because I think the real key measure of our performance and whether or not we're delivering on the targets that we established at the March analyst meeting is we are right on plan. In fact, we're a little ahead in some areas, like US liquids production, for example, PNG LNG a little ahead. Some other things are a little behind -- European demand, for example, on the gas side. We continue to ramp up Kearl and that progress is also looking good as we head into the second half of the year.

So, again, if we look past the quarter-to-quarter fluctuations and focus on where we're at year to date and what we're expecting in the second half, I can assure you, we are spot on to deliver the outlook that we gave you.

BLAKE FERNANDEZ: That is great. That's helpful. Thank you. The second question, one of your European counterparts has just announced the initial steps to form an MLP. And it seems like Exxon is flush with assets that would probably fit very nicely into one and really highlight the underlying value that's probably not reflected in the stock. I'm just curious if that is even on the radar screen.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: I'd say generically, everything is on the radar screen. We are just constantly looking at all of the things that are out there, all the options we have, to realize full value from all of our assets including our midstream assets.

The one thing I'd remind you, if you recall back in the 2011 and 2012 timeframe,, we actually sold a number of our midstream assets and realized extensive value for those. And those were reflected in the very strong gains on asset sales and cash flow we generated. Now, if you step back and look at MLPs, most companies are using those as a means to raise cash and finance growth or reduce their ownership costs or exposure.

Those aren't strategic drivers for us, in our case, when we look at our midstream portfolio. These are strategic assets to us. We think we are monetizing the value of those, whether or not you would assert that they are adequately reflected in our share price yet. We are certainly monetizing those and maximizing the value in the integration of our full value chain. And also, as part of our logistics and integration between the upstream, downstream and chemicals.

So you probably won't be surprised to know that we've taken a hard look at this and look at the assets and the opportunities. But we like what we have. We like the integration benefit. And, in fact, if you've seen some of our recent announcements we're actually investing more dollars in that part of the business. We mentioned the Edmonton rail project and a few other ones.

So midstream assets were strategic to us. We think we're getting full value for them as part of the integrated business model that we have. But I wouldn't want you to ever think that we're not aware of and looking at everything that's out there that others are doing and some things others may not have thought about yet.

BLAKE FERNANDEZ: Great. Thank you, David.

OPERATOR: Roger Read, Wells Fargo.

ROGER READ, ANALYST, WELLS FARGO SECURITIES, LLC: Maybe coming back a little bit on the Permian question, just because we did see, I believe it was an asset swap that you did during the quarter. Since in general we're seeing a lot more activity heading that direction, maybe could you give us an idea a little bit of relative size? I know you don't like to get into a lot of details but relative size. And as we think about growth opportunities maybe of the Permian relative to the identified projects in the Gulf of Mexico, if there's any additional detail, clarity, something there you could offer us.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: We did sign an agreement in the second quarter to do a swap that basically added about additional 26,000 net acres in the Permian. Virtually all of it was in the Midland basin which, of course, as you know, is prospective for the horizontal drilling that we've talked about. If you add that to the acreage we talked about that we picked up earlier this year, we've now added 50,000, 60,000 prime acres right in the sweet spot of where we want to be. So, that's good.

And that's one of the reasons why we've increased rigs in that area. I mentioned the 65 workover rigs that we're running. I think we've got 11 rigs running on the exploration and delineation and evaluation side. So, certainly, ramping up activity there and very encouraged by the results we're seeing. And it's a very active area for us.

In terms of activity relative to other areas, I have to also say the Bakken is an area where we're already ramping up production quite significantly, and you see that in our results. We've got a lot of activity there. We've got 12 rigs running. That's up from where we've been in the past. Operated production was up 26% in the second quarter. So again, we're continuing to ramp up.

The other play we've talked about is the Ardmore and we've got higher rigs running there, as well. One of the things, I just think about adding all that up and looking at our liquids plays, production across the Permian, Bakken and Woodford Ardmore in the second quarter was over 200,000 barrels a day. And that was up over 25% from a year ago and up quarter to quarter. So we're continuing to work that.

Comparing those opportunities to the Gulf of Mexico, we're fortunate that we've got opportunities in both of those areas. We do have major projects coming on and starting up. I mentioned Lucius, which is the oil development there, starting up before the end of the year. The gas piece of that project for us, Hadrian South, will also start up and bring on additional volumes.

We continue to work on Julia and that's progressing well. And then there are a couple other projects that we also have an interest in. So, that's coming through.

We've also picked up some additional very attractive exploration acreage. Recently we were awarded the three blocks that we were the high bidder on right over there on the transboundary area bordering up against Mexico. So, we've got those three blocks awarded to us there in the Gulf, and we're hoping that will lead to some opportunities down the road beyond that.

Both of those areas are looking good. The Gulf of Mexico never delivers 100% success rate to anybody. We've drilled a couple dry holes ourselves but if we step back and look across the last several years and what we got on the plate going forward, we like what we have. And we're looking forward to getting these high margin volumes up and running here later in the year.

ROGER READ: Okay. That's great. Thanks. That segues into what my other question was going to be. Mexico -- clearly they've made progress on the legislative side. We still need to see what the actual rules are going to be and get a good feel for timing. But can you talk a little bit about what Exxon sees as the possibilities in Mexico over the next, I don't know, three to five years as this develops?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: We're certainly encouraged by what we've seen to date. And we're certainly respectful of the process of deliberation that's going on and as they work through their legislative process. We're monitoring that closely. We have a long history in Mexico and we are certainly anxious to see how all this comes out and what opportunities might be available for us along those lines.

Again, as I mentioned a minute ago, we do have those three blocks awarded to us right there on the boundary of the Mexican blocks in the deepwater Gulf. And so we'll see if that can help generate opportunities. But we're encouraged to date. Anxiously awaiting how all that finalizes and all the details come out over time. And then we'll pursue any opportunities that are attractive to us. But we certainly like our position.

ROGER READ: Okay. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Doug Terreson, ISI.

DOUGLAS TERRESON, ANALYST, ISI GROUP: For clarification, how does the $1.6 billion of upstream asset sales that you mentioned a minute ago reconcile with the $1.2 billion other figure that you highlighted on slide 8? And do you have any geographical segmentation for either of those results?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Sure. If you're looking at the $1.2 billion that we mentioned, that was the delta quarter on quarter. Because we had a number of asset gains last quarter and then last year. So, if you're looking at the total picture there -- and, again, there are other items in the earnings rec -- but just to be clear, in the upstream, the total value of the asset sales in earnings was $1.6 billion in the quarter. And then if you look quarter over quarter, that's about $1.5 billion with an offset of $200 million and some other things like start up expenses and that sort of thing.

If you're looking at the sequential comparison, we had about $400 million of gains on asset sales in the first quarter this year. So, the delta there is about $1.2 billion in earnings. I hope that sorts it out for you. And then we talked separately in the call about the impact on the cash flows.

DOUGLAS TERRESON: Okay. And then, secondly, over the years, ExxonMobil and its peers have employed very substantial portfolio management programs to support returns on capital. And with the decline in returns across the sector over the past four or five years, the pace has accelerated for some companies and was positive effect on returns and their values in the market. My question is, with Exxon Mobil's returns falling with the industry over the last several years, why wouldn't the Company be using portfolio management more rather than the same or less to enhance its returns profile, that is, if you think that it's not? So, really, any updated thinking on portfolio management strategy in light of the industry context is appreciated, David.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Thanks, Doug. I would say there's really two items to talk about in regard to the return performance here over the last couple of years. First, with regard to asset sales, they are not linear. We had a number of asset sales in 2011 and 2012, and I think the combination of those two years yielded about $20 billion in cash flow. Very strong. Last year was less a year. This year we're off to a pretty solid start between first quarter and the second quarter, and in particular, what we generated here with our asset sales.

So, the program is ongoing. We don't make an announcement in advance of what we're going to do. We find that gives us a little better negotiating strategy when we do actually sit down and talk about selling assets. So, we don't have any stated objective. We don't have any target that we feel we must make. But we're certainly able to take advantage of anything in the market that gives us a chance to realize value for our shareholders.

Fortunately for us, we don't have to sell assets in order to make a dividend payment or another distribution because of the cash flow we generate. And, again, I reference back to that chart I showed you.

I think one of the other things to keep in mind when you look at upstream ROCE over the last few years, particularly in our case, and I can't speak for others, but one of the aspects of these very large legacy plateau volume non-declining volume projects, however you want to call them, is all the CapEx is up front. And so, there, as you're building these projects, and particularly in our case, we talk about bringing on 1 million barrels of oil equivalent a day of production between 2013 and 2017, by definition you've got a lot of steel in the ground to produce 1 million barrels of oil equivalent per day. And until that capital starts up, that's nonproductive capital.

So, that, I think, at least for us, has been a big driver in terms of ROCE. And, as you know, as those projects crank up, Papau, New Guinea being a perfect example, you go from not productive capital in the ground to productive capital, and in this case, highly productive capital.

Again, part of bringing all these projects online, part of ramping up the production is the earnings, the cash flow and the ROCE that comes along with that. And then on the downstream side, of course, we continue to have industry-leading returns and continue to make incremental investments there to at least maintain if not increase that advantage.

DOUGLAS TERRESON: Okay. Thanks a lot, David.

OPERATOR: Paul Cheng, Barclays.

PAUL CHENG, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Dave, on Kearl Phase 1, the ramp up has been, I think, probably slower than what the investor has been expecting. From you guys standpoint internally, when you think all the startup issue will be fixed and you will be running at a sustainable rate to full capacity? Is it going to take another year, six months? Any kind of rough timeline that internally you guys are forecasting?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Paul, let me give you a quick update on Kearl, because we have seen continued ramp up in the production. I mentioned that in the second quarter, although on the surface it looks like production was flat at about 66,000 barrels a day first quarter and second quarter, but recall we did have some planned maintenance there in April that took us way below that number.

I can tell you, as we came out of that April downtime for maintenance, production picked up quite well. And, in fact, we achieved record production in the month of June of almost 80,000 barrels a day. So, we've not quite reached the lined out production and our expectations but we are making progress. A number of the issues that you are aware of are being resolved and we're working on that.

Again, I have to stress that although we're certainly a disappointed in the ramp up over the last year from what our original expectation was, the technology is working fine. We've actually been able to run each of the three froth treatment trains above their designed capacity. That's very encouraging. And, so, the objective for us now is to get all three of them running simultaneously on a consistent basis at or above their designed capacity. And when we achieve that, that's when you'll really see that volume change.

We're encouraged at the capability of the assets that we've put in place. We are encouraged with how the technology's working. We are working on the ramp up and look to improve that. I can't give you a specific date on which we'll achieve 110,000 barrels a day or some number greater than that, but we are making progress and we're looking forward to continue that progress.

I can also say, on the other side of the Kearl initial development, the expansion project is going very well. I'm pleased to say for another quarter that the project is on schedule and on budget, which, on the backs of the Papua New Guinea LNG project, very unusual in our industry for somebody in my position to sit here on an earnings call and tell you the projects are on budget and on schedule. So, acknowledge that the ramp up in Kearl first phase hasn't been quite what we were expecting but, again, want to confirm that we're making progress and we're encouraged with the results we've seen so far this year.

PAUL CHENG: Dave, you guys have some very decent success on the shale oil. Do you have a number you can share what is your total share wallet production in the second-quarter average and comparing to the full-year 2013, and whether you can bring it down between the black oil, condensate, NGL and gas?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: I can't break down the split between oil, NGL and gas. But the numbers I gave just a minute ago on the call across the Permian, the Bakken and the Ardmore are pretty indicative of what we're doing, although not all of it in the Permian, as I mentioned, is unconventional oil.

But I think without a specific number, again, when you look at the numbers that we had in the supplement to the press release, you see the 38,000 barrels a day increase in US liquids year over year, and we look at how things are going again in the big three -- the Bakken, the Woodford Ardmore and the Permian - we're ramping up to that level that we talked about in the analyst meeting and continue to move forward. And I'll continue to give you an update on a quarterly basis.

PAUL CHENG: Can I just make a quick question, a final one? There's an article, I think, out there talking about Exxon, evaluating to have a major expansion in one of your Texas refinery. That seems to be very uncharacteristic or quite different than what Exxon historically has been building or the refining strategy in the US. Want to see whether you can comment on that.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: The first thing I'd say is I'm not going to make a specific comment on any rumors or speculation that are out there in the press. We are regularly looking at our portfolio around the world. I mentioned the investment we're putting into the Antwerp plant, which you might say why would you be putting money into Europe given its current weak spot on the margin side. But again, that's consistent with our strategy of upgrading molecules. Very nice project to take what is currently a low-value [rez-it] stream and upgrade it into very high-value diesel and other products.

When we look at the US, when we look at Europe, when we look at Asia-Pacific we're always looking at opportunities and what we can do to either upgrade any molecule that's flowing through our system, how we can take advantage of already advantaged assets like our refining circuit, and improve that. So, for us to be looking at many different things should not come as a surprise.

But rather than mentioning anything specifically, and coming back to the strategy that we've articulated, I think I can really go back to what we said at the analyst meeting. You look at our downstream strategy, it's all about expanding feedstock flexibility, increasing high product yields, high-value product yields, reducing operating costs, taking advantage of logistics, like we're doing in Europe that I mentioned in my prepared remarks. Or pressing even more the value we get from integration.

So, I would say there's no change in that strategy per se. But wouldn't comment on any specific item that you might have read in the press somewhere.

PAUL CHENG: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Pavel Molchanov, Raymond James.

PAVEL MOLCHANOV, ANALYST, RAYMOND JAMES & ASSOCIATES: On Russia, I appreciate the point that the sanctions have not yet been fully clarified. But can you confirm whether the Arctic exploration prospect with Rosneft is still set to spud in August?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Pavel, again, I can understand the interest in the question but I really have to come back to what I said at the opening. Until we have a chance to look at the sanctions, read them, assess them, evaluating evaluate them, it just wouldn't be appropriate for me at this point this morning to make any comment specifically on any of our activities.

PAVEL MOLCHANOV: Okay. Understood. And then you guys recently applied for approval for the Gulf Coast LNG export terminal with Qatar. Any sense of when you're expecting that approval to be given?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: I don't have a specific expectation. I think one of the things that's helpful for us is we went in a pre-FERC filing process for a while. We've been working on this, so this isn't brand-new for us.

I don't know exactly what the expectation is in terms of approvals or a number you have to get from the FERC, of course, from the DOE, et cetera. But I think if we look across how this thing might progress through the approval process, and if we can get to a position where we can FID this, you might be looking at some time frame for production around 2019 -- again, without breaking it into its components.

Nice opportunity for us. And we are certainly looking forward to an efficient process in terms of getting everything approved and getting our DOE approval for export to non-FTA countries and moving on with that project. But it's just one of many LNG opportunities we have in the portfolio. We're fortunate to have a number of things we can be working on around the world in various points of development. And this one is certainly one that we're working on real closely.

PAVEL MOLCHANOV: All right. Appreciate it, guys.

OPERATOR: John Herrlin, Societe Generale.

JOHN HERRLIN, ANALYST, SOCIETE GENERALE: Just a couple quick ones, Dave. With the PNG gas, is that all contracted sales at this stage? Spot cargoes initially.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: We've been basically, because the project has started up months early, the current cargoes that I talked about, they're basically, by definition, going in on a spot basis. And we're pleased with our ability to place those cargoes at attractive prices.

As we get down to later on and the contracts all kick in, about 95% of the production is contracted on long-term contracts tied to the price of oil. And that is certainly part of, if you'll recall back at the analyst meeting when we said we would take the percentage of our total upstream portfolio production from about 63% or 64% liquids or liquids linked, up to about 69%, this is just an example of that. But, yes, the cargoes that we're placing now are basically spot into the market. But, again, we've been able to place them and pleased with how that went. And really looking forward to getting this project continuing on.

And, again, just very pleased with the start up and very pleased that we were able to bring that project in under a budget that was two years old. The industry's gotten used to those annual updates of budgets on LNG projects and costs going up annually. Again, we're very pleased to bring this thing early and under our budget.

JOHN HERRLIN: Thanks. Last one for me is on your effective tax rate. Maybe you said something but I missed it.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Let me give you a little more color on that. You did see an effective tax rate around 41% or 42% or so. That is down from last year and also a little bit down from what we saw in the first quarter.

The real impact you're seeing there is just a combination of the mix of our businesses -- upstream, downstream, chemical, geographic, some of our portfolio management activities, the expiry of the Abu Dhabi onshore concession. Of course, as is typical, asset sales tend to have a lower tax rate than earnings from your operations.

So, all of that drove us a little low here in the second quarter. I can tell you without giving a specific guidance and a specific number, but a normalized tax rate going forward ought to be somewhere in the mid-40%s compared to upper 40%s of prior history, somewhere in that order of magnitude, just to give you a feel for how that impact might roll through going forward.

JOHN HERRLIN: Great. Thanks very much, Dave.

OPERATOR: Guy Baber, Simmons Investment Bank.

GUY BABER, ANALYST, SIMMONS INVESTMENT BANK: Just one quick one for me and more of a point of clarification. I wanted to ask about the US liquids performance relative to your internal expectations. That's an area that 's outperformed our model. You've given us some great detail on the call so thanks for that. But wasn't sure if you had said that the US liquids production was tracking in line with the internal plan or it was outperforming. So, just wanted to clarify there, as we try to think through the ultimate potential of your LRS portfolio in light of some of the longer-term guidance you gave at the analyst day previously.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Guy, thanks for the opportunity to clarify that a little bit. We are slightly ahead of our internal expectations for the year in the US on liquids. I mentioned in total, relative to what we talked about at the analyst meeting, we're spot on.

So with the puts and takes, thinking about it as still maybe a little bit behind on the Kearl ramp-up, but I addressed that earlier. But slightly ahead in the lower 48. We are very encouraged with the results we're seeing. We're very pleased with the additional opportunities.

We are adding rigs. We are putting some additional resources into those areas. But, bottom line, to answer, yes, we are a little bit ahead of where we even thought we'd be internally so far this year.

GUY BABER: Okay. Great. Just wanted to confirm that. Thanks.

OPERATOR: Allen Good, Morningstar.

ALLEN GOOD, ANALYST, MORNINGSTAR: Just a quick one, and I'm sorry if I missed it. But on the US natural gas production, it looks like declines have been slowing over the past few quarters. This quarter we actually saw a sequential growth. Can you talk a little bit behind the moves there and what we may expect for the rest of the year, and maybe into next year, as well?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: If we look at the gas business, we were sequentially up just a hair but really, about flat, down year on year, which is also consistent with what we talked about at the analyst meeting. So, you are seeing that kind of year-over-year decline as we move those resources more into the liquids side.

If we're looking sequentially, I wouldn't read too much into that. We are about flat. It's probably just timing of fracking and completions and bringing wells on to sale. I would say as a follow-up to the prior question, everything we're doing on the gas side is per the plan. And that's a broad statement as well as in the US.

So, the second quarter we had some good performance. But again, I wouldn't want to give an indication that our full-year outlook on the gas side is any different than what we might have said at the analyst meeting. We are seeing the bump up, of course, from the early start up of PNG. But then on the other hand, we came out of a very warm winter in Europe and those volumes were down fairly significantly.

I think what I would just say, to wrap up your question and the call, think about all the things we laid out for you at the analyst meeting, both strategically and the strategic choices we're making, and upgrading our portfolio, high-value, higher-margin, higher unit profit products into the market. And that's across all of our businesses. Selective investments to continue to press the strategic advantages.

And then zeroing in on upstream production volumes, right on what we had expected, and maybe a little better in a couple areas. And, again, if you look at that year-to-date free cash flow chart, and you look at the progress we've made in a number of areas, again, we're very pleased with how our first half is turning out so far this year.

ALLEN GOOD: Okay, great. Thanks.

OPERATOR: That does conclude our question-and-answer session. Mr. Rosenthal, I'll turn the conference back to you for closing remarks.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: I would just like to thank everybody for participating on the call today and your questions. And look forward to talking with you all again in about three months. Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: This does conclude today's conference. Thank you for your participation.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
exxn : Exxon Mobil Corporation
   IN
i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1300003 : Crude Petroleum Extraction | iextra : Natural Gas/Oil Extraction
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020140802ea7v001gv
  


 HD
 Q1  2014  Exxon  Mobil Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
9,938 words
   PD
1 May 2014
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©014 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day, everyone. Welcome to the Exxon Mobil Corporation first-quarter 2014 earnings conference call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time for opening remarks I would like to turn the call over to Vice President of Investor Relations and Secretary, Mr. David Rosenthal. Please go ahead, sir.

   TD
DAVID ROSENTHAL, VP OF IR & SECRETARY, EXXON MOBIL CORPORATION: Good morning and welcome to Exxon Mobil's first-quarter earnings call and webcast. The focus of this call is Exxon Mobil's financial and operating results for the first quarter. I will refer to the slides that are available through the investor section of our website. Before we go further, I would like to draw your attention to our cautionary statement shown on slide 2.

Moving to slide 3, we provide an overview of some of the external factors impacting our results. Global economic growth continued at a modest pace in the first quarter, with mixed performance across the regions. The US economy grew moderately despite the adverse effects of severe winter weather conditions. China's growth rate has flattened, while the economies of Europe and Japan improved modestly.

Energy markets delivered mixed results. WTI prices increased, narrowing the discount to Brent as the global marker decreased in the quarter. Western Canadian select prices increased significantly. North American natural gas prices were also significantly higher. Global industry refining margins were essentially flat, while chemical commodity product margins were stronger during the quarter.

Turning now to the financial results as shown on slide 4, Exxon Mobil's first-quarter earnings were $9.1 billion, or $2.10 per share. The Corporation distributed $5.7 billion to shareholders in the quarter through dividends and our share repurchase program. Share purchases to reduce shares outstanding were $3 billion in the quarter.

CapEx was $8.4 billion. Cash flow from operations and asset sales was $16.2 billion, including proceeds associated with asset sales of $1.1 billion. At the end of the quarter cash totaled $5.8 billion and debt was $21.4 billion. The next slide provides additional details on first-quarter sources and uses of funds.

Over the quarter, cash increased by $900 million from $4.9 billion to $5.8 billion. Earnings, depreciation expense, changes in working capital and other items, and our ongoing asset management program yielded $16.2 billion of cash flow from operations and asset sales. Uses included additions to property, plant, and equipment of $7.3 billion, and shareholder distributions of $5.7 billion.

Additional financing and investing activities decreased cash by $2.3 billion, including a reduction in debt of just over $1 billion. Yesterday the Board of Directors declared a cash dividend of $0.69 per share, a 9.5% increase from last quarter. Share purchases to reduce shares outstanding are expected to be $3 billion in the second quarter of 2014.

Moving on to slide 6 and a review of our segmented results. Exxon Mobil's first-quarter earnings of $9.1 billion decreased by $400 million from the first quarter of 2013. Lower downstream and chemical earnings, as well as higher corporate and financing expenses, were partly offset by higher upstream earnings.

In the sequential quarter comparison shown on slide 7, earnings increased by $750 million, as higher upstream and chemical earnings were partly offset by lower downstream earnings and higher corporate and financing expenses. Guidance for corporate and financing expenses remains at $500 million to $700 million per quarter.

Turning now to the upstream financial and operating results and starting on slide 8. Upstream earnings in the first quarter were $7.8 billion, an increase of $746 million versus the first quarter of 2013. Realizations increased earnings by $410 million, primarily driven by higher US natural gas realizations. On a worldwide basis, natural gas realizations increased $0.31 per 1,000 cubic feet, while crude oil realizations decreased by $4.09 per barrel.

Volume and mix effects increased earnings by a net $20 million. This included a favorable liquids mix effect of about $300 million, reflecting increased volumes in Canada, Russia, and West Africa, as well as the minimal financial impact related to the Abu Dhabi onshore concession expiring. The positive liquids effect was mostly offset by lower natural gas volumes, primarily due to warmer weather in Europe. All other items increased earnings by $320 million, mainly due to gains related to asset sales.

Moving to slide 9. Excluding the impact of the Abu Dhabi onshore concession expiring, oil equivalent production decreased by 2.9% compared to the first quarter of last year. Liquids production was up 73,000 barrels per day or 3.3%, as the ramp up at Kearl and lower down time in several countries more than offset price and spend impacts, divestments, and decline. Natural gas production was down 1.2 billion cubic feet per day, primarily due to lower weather -elated demand in Europe.

Turning now to the sequential comparison starting on slide 10, upstream earnings increased $1 billion versus the fourth quarter. Realizations had a positive impact of $540 million, as worldwide natural gas realizations increased $0.84 per 1,000 cubic feet and crude realizations were essentially flat.

Volume and mix effects increased earnings by $650 million. This included a substantial positive liquids mix effect associated with increased volumes in Qatar, Kearl, and West Africa, as well as a net overlift, and including the minimal financial impact related to the Abu Dhabi onshore concession expiring. The positive volumes earnings factor also reflects higher natural gas volumes in Qatar.

All other items had a negative impact of $190 million. Lower gains related to asset management activities were partially offset by lower operating costs. Upstream after tax earnings per barrel were $21.35, excluding the impact of non-controlling interest volumes. Unit profitability increased $3.40 from the fourth quarter, reflecting the benefits of our broad, diverse portfolio, including leverage to North American natural gas, our strong L&G portfolio, and the strategic choices we have made on production volumes to improve unit profitability.

Moving to slide 11. Excluding the impact of the Abu Dhabi onshore concession expiring, volumes were up 45,000 oil equivalent barrels per day or about 1% sequentially. Liquids production was up 23,000 barrels per day or 1%. Lower downtime, increased production from West Africa projects, higher liquids volumes in Qatar, and ramp up at Kearl more than offset price and spend impacts, divestments, and decline. Natural gas volumes were up 129 million cubic feet per day, reflecting higher volumes in Qatar, partly offset by lower production in the United States and Europe.

Moving now to the downstream financial and operating results and starting on slide 12. Downstream earnings for the quarter were $813 million, down $732 million from the first quarter of 2013, mainly due to lower refining margins across all regions. Volume and mix effects increased earnings by $80 million, offset by other items for a net $70 million.

Turning to slide 13. Sequentially, first-quarter downstream earnings decreased by $103 million, primarily due to unfavorable volume and mix effects reflecting higher US refining maintenance activities.

Moving now to the chemical financial and operating results starting on slide 14. First-quarter chemical earnings were just over $1 billion, down $90 million versus the prior-year quarter, mainly due to lower margins. Positive volume and mix effects were offset by other items.

Moving to slide 15. Sequentially, chemical earnings increased by $137 million, primarily due to higher commodity product margins and lower expenses.

Moving next to the first-quarter business highlights beginning on slide 16. As we discussed in our March analyst meeting, we are starting up a number of major projects that will deliver profitable volume growth. Our world-class project execution capabilities are enabling significant progress on several of these projects.

At PNG we continue to achieve milestones that will result in the first LNG cargo being loaded ahead of schedule. We completed the onshore and offshore sections of the pipeline, which transports natural gas from the high-gas conditioning plant up in the mountains to the LNG plant near Port Moresby. The first LNG train is now operational and the second train is mechanically complete, with final commissioning under way.

Over recent weeks we started flowing the first gas from Hides, and in the past few days initiated LNG production, and we produced the first condensate and liquids recovered through the liquefaction process. We expense the first LNG cargo delivery in the coming weeks. These are exciting milestones for the PNG LNG project, and a great achievement for our project partners, contractors, and the people of Papua New Guinea.

As we mentioned at our analyst meeting, we had to overcome a number of challenges during the construction phase, such as very steep slopes, flooding, and lack of infrastructure. Despite these challenges, we are starting up several months ahead of plan, and delivering a project with one of the lowest costs per MTA relative to other LNG projects being built, and in close proximity to the growing Asian market. This is also an excellent example of how Exxon Mobil creates value through our leading project execution capabilities.

In Malaysia, we have started up production in the Damar gas field from the first 2 of a total 16 wells. The Damar field has a projected capacity of 200 million cubic feet of gas per day, and follows the Telok gas development which began in 2013. These projects provide additional gas supplies to help meet Malaysia's power and industrial needs, promote growth of the country's natural gas industry, and drive profitable volume growth for Exxon Mobil.

The Hibernia Southern expansion in Canada, a project that will deliver 170 million barrels of oil is progressing per plan and is now nearing completion. Installation of subsea infrastructure for the water injection facility has now been completed. Three of five platform production wells have been drilled, and topside modifications to the Hibernia gravity-based structure platform are 97% complete. Start up is expected later this quarter.

At Arkutun-Dagi in Russia, we are commissioning the last few topsides systems at the fabrication yard. The platform drilling rig will be tested over the coming weeks before the 42,000-ton topside structure is loaded out later this summer. The topside will then be floated over the gravity-based structure already installed offshore Sakhalin Island. Drilling will then start and first production is expected later this year.

The Banyu Urip project in Indonesia is now 87% complete. The project will deliver 450 million barrels of oil through an onshore central processing facility, with 165,000 barrels per day of production capacity.

[Pipe wire] construction is complete, equipment installation at the central processing facility is progressing, and the onshore and offshore pipelines are installed. Conversion of the floating storage and offloading vessel is nearing completion, with major equipment installed and commissioning ongoing. Two rigs are in operation and the first 20 wells have been drilled. Start up is expected around year end.

The Kearl expansion project in Canada remains slightly ahead of plan and is now more than 80% complete. We continue to ramp up production from the Kearl initial development, with 66,000 barrels per day produced during the first quarter, up from 47,000 barrels per day in the fourth quarter of last year. Facility uptime performance is improving and we are achieving many days with production above 100,000 barrels per day.

Turning now to slide 17 for an update on our North American activities. We continue our commitment to deliver profitable volume growth as underscored by our efforts to increase high-margin liquids production in the Permian. We had eight operated rigs running in the Permian in the first quarter, and recently picked up two more in early April to continue to ramp up drilling activity. Our current net production in the Permian is over 90,000 oil equivalent barrels per day.

Through an agreement with Endeavor Energy Resources, XTO will gain substantial operating equity in approximately 34,000 gross acres in the prolific liquids-rich Wolfcamp formation. The presence of multiple stacked pay zones creates the potential for capital-efficient horizontal development, and the proximity to XTO's ongoing Wolfcamp operations will offer operating cost efficiencies. The agreement increases XTO's holdings in the Permian basin to just over 1.5 million net acres, enhancing the Company's significant presence in one of the major growth areas for onshore liquids production in the United States.

Also during the quarter we signed an agreement with American Energy Utica, or AEU, that will enable XTO to optimize funding of development cost in the Utica. As part of the agreement, XTO will continue to operate in a core area of approximately 55,000 net acres in this emerging play, and AEU will fund near-term development costs to earn acreage. This transaction is an example of an innovative solution to develop our extensive natural gas resources in the United States in a capital-efficient manner.

Turning now to slide 18 for an update on our exploration activities. We are currently drilling a number of wildcat prospects from our deep and diverse opportunity portfolio, primarily concentrated in established areas. Some of this activity includes the deep water prospects, Mica Deep in the Gulf of Mexico and the Cominhos prospect in Angola block 32. We also continue exploration drilling in the prolific block 2 offshore Tanzania, where someone between 17 and 20 tcf of gas in place has already been discovered, and a recent drill stem test on the Zafarani-2 well confirmed good reservoir quality and good connectivity in both of the reservoir we tested.

Drilling operations are also currently under way on two blocks in the Kurdistan region of Iraq. Also, preparations are under way for near-term drilling that includes the University prospect in the Kara Sea, the Brugdan prospect in the Faroe Islands, follow-up drilling to the successful Domino well in the Romanian Black Sea, the Sputnik well in Gabon, and additional drilling prospects in Tanzania.

Turning now to slide 19 and an update on our chemical business. During the quarter we achieved notable investment milestones to grow high-value product sales. For example, we progressed synthetic base stocks investments to meet global demand growth for high-performance lubricant applications.

We commissioned a new 50,000 tons per year manufacturing facility at our Baytown, Texas complex, and construction of our expansion project in Baton Rouge, Louisiana continued during the quarter, with startup anticipated late this year. Both projects leverage Exxon Mobil's technology leadership to meet the industry's growing demand for advanced synthetic base stocks that improve finished lubricant performance.

We also recently approved a world-scale grass roots specialty polymers project in Singapore to produce halobutyl rubber to support their growing tire market in the region. And premium resins for adhesive applications such as packaging, wood working, and non-woven fabrics. The project builds on the feed stock advantage and integration benefits of the recent steam cracking expansion, and will allow us to meet rapidly growing demand in Asia. Construction will begin this year and startup is planned for 2017.

In conclusion, in the first quarter we earned $9.1 billion, increased upstream unit profitability to $21.35 per barrel, generated $16.2 billion in cash flow from operations and asset sales, invested $8.4 billion in the Business, and distributed $5.7 billion to our shareholders. Exxon Mobil's strong financial and operating performance demonstrates progress in delivering profitable growth and achieving our Business objectives outlined during our analyst meeting in March. We improved our production mix and increased upstream unit profitability.

We are committed to maintaining our capital spending discipline and generating strong operating cash flow to deliver robust shareholder distributions and create long-term shareholder value. That concludes my prepared remarks, and I would now be happy to take your questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions)

Douglas Terreson, ISI Group.

DOUGLAS TERRESON, ANALYST, ISI GROUP: I have a couple of questions on international E&P. Profitability and margins were very strong and pretty much the highest they have been in several quarter, even if you normalize for the expiration in Abu Dhabi. So my question is whether there is any additional color on the positive liquid mix effects that you talked about a minute ago, and also whether or not there were any positive effects on the gas side that might have contributed to that result?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Sure. Let me take a look at the upstream earnings. We can look quarter versus quarter where I mentioned, although we had a net impact of only $20 million, we did have a significant impact on liquids that was about $290 million, and gas was a negative $270 million on that.

When you look at the production in the first quarter, we saw some nice increases in Canada, some in Russia, West Africa, much lower downtime, a little more in the North Sea. Those were benefits to us. The biggest decline in production was the Abu Dhabi onshore concession expiry, which carried little earnings of an effect.

If you were to look at that same effect sequentially, where we noted we had a $650 million volume mix impact, liquids was about $400 million of that and gas was about $250 million. So as we look at going from the fourth quarter to the first quarter, similar on the liquids side, we saw some increases in Qatar, increases in West Africa as well, Canada with the ramp up of Kearl, and then an offset with the decline in Abu Dhabi.

On the gas side, we also saw a nice positive mix effect. Volumes, for example, in Qatar were up. And volumes in Europe, which was mainly the lower-margin volumes out of the Netherlands, were down because of the lower demand due to the warmer weather. So in both liquids and in gas sequentially we did see a nice uplift in earnings from the positive mix effect.

DOUGLAS TERRESON: Okay. And so in your last comment about European natural gas, most of that, or all of that decline was related to weather. Is that the way to think about it?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Yes. The way to think about it is was all demand driven due to weather, with the bulk of it again coming out of the Netherlands where the margins are a little lower than they are on the rest of our European sales.

DOUGLAS TERRESON: Great. Thanks a lot, David.

OPERATOR: Paul Sankey, Wolfe Research

PAUL SANKEY, ANALYST, WOLFE RESEARCH: David, can I just ask you about your CapEx and your volumes. In the former case, there is an enormous step down in the CapEx, almost 30%, which takes you well below the run rate for the year that you indicated at the analyst meeting of around $40 billion. Is there reason to believe we are coming in lower on CapEx for the year, or is this an anomalous Q1 that we'll see you catch up later, and therefore, would you stick with the $40 billion or would we see some downside to that?

And if I can follow-up on volumes, David, the guidance at the meeting had been flat 2014 over 2013, allowing for all the adjustments that needed to be made. Again, your Q1 numbers are actually tracking below that. Can we expect to catch up back to flat later in the year? And final final part, if you could just suggest cash again and where that sat within your volume forecast, both for this year and longer term? Thank you.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Sure, Paul. Let me hit CapEx first. We did come in at $8.4 billion, that was down a little over $3 billion from the first quarter of last year. That was mainly due to the absence of the Celtic acquisition in Canada. So if you take that out from last year's results, we would be pretty much flat, maybe down just a little bit.

As we look out across the year, the first quarter is usually lower than the rest of the quarters. We tend to ramp up across the year with a little extra in the back half. So I would say as we look at where we are today and looking out over the rest of the year, the number we gave you in the analyst meeting is probably still a good one. I don't have an update. What I will say, though, is when we look at the first quarter CapEx, it came in just about right on what we had expected. So far this year things are going according to plan on CapEx.

On the volumes guidance, we said overall we would be flat at about 4.0 million oil equivalent barrels per day year to year ex-Abu Dhabi, about a 2% increase in liquids, about a 2% decrease in gas. As we look at the first quarter and then across the rest of the year, those numbers still look good to us. We've got some additional ramp up expected at Kearl across the year. We do expect some of these other projects I mentioned come on, Papua New Guinea being one of those. So we look at the first quarter, it looks real strong. And certainly increases maintains our confidence in meeting that full-year projection we shared with you in the analyst meeting.

I think the other thing that is noteworthy and I talked about it a little bit on the last question, is we are seeing the impacts we were expecting on the volume mix as we reduced our exposure to some lower-margin barrels and were able to increase production in some of our higher-margin areas, both on the liquids and gas side. So that is kind of coming in as we were expecting and we talked about a little bit at the analyst meeting. In terms of Kashagan in the forecast for 2014, we did not have any volumes in our outlook that we showed you in March for Kashagan for 2014.

PAUL SANKEY: That is very helpful David And then a quick follow-up, your product sales are up 11% year over year, quarter to quarter. In the recent past, that's been a number heavily affected by asset mix. Could you just address the scale of that jump, the 11% growth obviously on a Company of your size looks like an enormously strong oil demand globally. Any thoughts? Thanks.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Let me just clarify the question. Are you saying product sales, are you talking about our downstream sales?

PAUL SANKEY: Yes, I should say to use your language exactly, petroleum product sales, if I look worldwide they're up 5.8 million barrels a day, up a year-ago level of 5.7 million.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: We are up a little bit. We have seen worldwide, we actually had some higher demand in the US, actually some pretty good demand growth there. We have seen some growth in diesel as well with exports and actually some growth in Europe, so those are the two main areas. But a nice, nice quarter for us operationally as well.

PAUL SANKEY: I guess my question is the extent to which is a comparable number year over year or whether there was any asset mix in that, or whether we could just look -- ?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: That is pretty comparable.

PAUL SANKEY: Right. Okay. Thanks very much.

OPERATOR: Doug Leggate, BofA Merrill Lynch.

DOUG LEGGATE, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: David, I wonder if I can follow-up on the other Doug's question on margins here. Your unit margin capture is something you've talked about periodically, and this quarter had a fairly nice rebound. I am just wondering if you can walk us through any particular reasons behind that? Was it just a great operating quarter? In other words, how sustainable could this be?

And if I can follow-up to that, you're going to have about 1 million barrels a day of new production by your forecast between now and 2017. Obviously that is a fairly good churn in the portfolio. I am wondering if you can kind of just qualitatively or quantitatively, whichever you can do, walk through the delta we see in cash margins for the newer projects relative to the existing portfolio, please?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Sure. Let's start out with the margin and the margin capture; in addition to some of the volume mix items I mentioned, you actually have some fairly significant mix impacts on the realization side, which kind of get masked by some of the markers. So for example, if you look this quarter versus the same quarter last year, WTI is up over $4, Brent is down over $4, but western Canada select was up $9 a barrel as a marker for the Canadian crudes. So if you think about where we are exposed to Brent overseas, a number of production, but including the Abu Dhabi barrels, would have some tie to that.

Whereas in the US, all of our production, particularly in the Permian, would be closer to a WTI spot price and then, of course, all of our volumes in Canada. So it is not just Kearl. You are talking about Cold Lake and our other production up there. So think about it as the volumes that went up were attracting the higher-margin or the higher-price marker crudes. The volumes that declined happened to be the ones that were Brent based. And again, a big change in those prices did not have much of an earnings impact.

So you see a nice change on both the volume mix side as well as on the price side. So it is kind of back to, again what we have been talking about in the last couple of analyst meetings, growing liquids and liquids linked volumes, LNG prices were also very attractive in the quarter and we were able to capture those by having some increased volumes in Qatar. So I would say kind of on a go-forward basis, this is probably more typical than what we have seen in the past, again, given from the mix changes I mentioned.

If we look at the barrels that we're going to be adding on an equivalent basis going forward, I would not give any specific cash margins on those barrels, but if you recall back at the analyst meeting, some of the discussion I think Mark Albers provided in his comments, we did talk about that the volumes coming online were going to be generally accretive to our average unit margin and given the fiscal regimes we would be in in those projects, also accretive to earnings. So again, I think as we go forward over the next year or two and we start up these projects, we expect to deliver the profitable growth that we talked about in the analyst meeting, and we certainly look forward to these projects coming online over the next three years.

DOUG LEGGATE: Thank you, David. A very quick follow-up. Could you give the absolute asset sale gain in the quarter, just as a housekeeping point, and I will leave it there.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Sure. If you look at on an earnings basis, the absolute gain on asset sales in total was just over $400 million and that was all in the upstream. So the absolute -- I'll just gave you the numbers here because I know there is going to be interest.

In the upstream the absolute value of the asset sales on earnings was about $400 million in the first quarter of this year. That was lower than and compared to about $800 million in the fourth quarter of last year. And we didn't have any asset sales in the first quarter. So you have got about a $400 million positive delta quarter over quarter, and almost $400 million delta sequentially on the negative side.

The other thing I will mention to kind of put the first quarter asset sales into perspective on an absolute basis, I mentioned we had $400 million in positive; we had about $200 million of negative tax items and other reserves, so if you kind of think about outside the normal operations of the Business, we probably had a net absolute value in the upstream of about $200 million.

DOUG LEGGATE: That is really helpful. Thanks a lot, David.

OPERATOR: Jason Gallant, Jefferies.

JASON GALLANT, ANALYST, JEFFERIES & CO.: Hi David, I wanted to ask about the PNG/LNG project. Congratulations actually for bringing the project on ahead of schedule. That's something that hasn't been achieved in that business in quite a while.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Thank you.

JASON GALLANT: I wanted to ask about the pace of ramp up David, you've made reference to first commercial cargos by the end of the quarter from the first train, and start of production from the second train in several weeks. Would you expect that you could potentially be achieving full production by year end from both trains from that project?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Yes. First of all, thanks for the comments on the project start up. The team is very proud, as I mentioned bringing that in early and it looks like certainly within the budget that we had talked about, so we do look for ahead of plan production and cargo deliveries.

If we look out towards the end of the year, we will certainly be ramping up both the first train and the second train, and assuming all of that continues to go well, we would expect to see these things ramp up pretty good across the coming months. So it is a little early for me to give you a definitive answer, but I would say it is likely that by the time we get to the end of the year we're going to be running at pretty good operating rates.

JASON GALLANT: Okay, great. If I could ask a second one, David, it is obviously pretty early days just in terms of sanctions on Russia, but have you had any effects on your ability to invest in the multiple areas where you participate with Rosneft as a partner in Russia?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: With regards to Russia, of course we will comply with all sanctions, but I can tell you on the latter part of your question, all of the activities that we had originally planned for this year are under way and proceeding as planned.

JASON GALLANT: Great. Thank you, David.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Asit Sen, Cowen and Company.

ASIT SEN, ANALYST, COWEN AND COMPANY: On PNG/LNG as we get closer to the start, I was wondering if you could provide some early thoughts on some incremental operational items. First, wondering if you could talk about the condensate ratio. Second, any thoughts on train three expansion potential. And finally any thoughts on LNG contracting strategy relative to the pricing slope and/or spot exposure.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Sure. On the condensate ratio, I really couldn't give you a specific number for the expectation there. Obviously it is a very attractive stream.

When we look at train three, we are still evaluating a number of opportunities to expand the plant; some of those relate to our own exploration success, and other opportunities that we have on our own operated acreage, as well as potential other sources of additional gas. So that planning and looking and analyzing and discussing, that process is ongoing. Don't have a definitive outcome for you.

But as I mentioned in my prepared remarks, if you look at the plan as it is today, the cost per MTA in today's market is very competitive, and of course any additional capacity would take advantage of the existing infrastructure and even be more attractive, so we are certainly looking at that.

If you look at a contracting strategy, we entered into long-term oil index price contracts; about 95% of the production is already sold under those contracts, customers being in Japan, China, and Taiwan. So those contracts are locked up, and then you'll have of course a little left over for some spot sales.

ASIT SEN: Thanks. Very helpful.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Roger Reed, Wells Fargo Securities.

ROGER READ, ANALYST, WELLS FARGO SECURITIES, LLC: To come back to the margin discussion, and maybe as a better way to understand some of the moving parts going forward, I gather the expansion of liquids, the shrinking of the gas and what that should mean for margins as well as the addition of the LNG barrels. But I was wondering, underlying costs, can you give us any kind of view of what is going on there. Are we dealing with costs are going to go up, but your margins go up faster; costs should hold flat while margins should improve from mix and price? Maybe a little more detail on that if you could?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: As we look at the overall profitability, as you mentioned, margins are doing better with the mix that we talked about on both the oil and the gas side.

In terms of OpEx, we are not seeing any significant upward pressure across the portfolio. If you look at it on an absolute basis, of course, OpEx is up with startup of some of our big projects. Kearl would be a good example of that as we progress from the startup phase last year into lining out production and ramping up this year. You get some benefit of that.

We did see some lower exploration expense in the first quarter of this year. As you recall in late last year in the second half, we booked fairly heavy exploration expense, mainly attributed to our business in Russia, and that was a little lower this quarter, but as expected. So I would say overall you think about the margin capture and the profit capture, again, it is the mix that we talked about, in particular, as we ramp up these projects across the quarter.

I think the other thing I might add is on the unconventional side, we continue to make good progress driving costs down in the areas that we are operating. As we talked about before, the combination of Exxon Mobil's technology and XTO's operating experience, we are really starting to see the leverage we get by combining those, particularly as we continue to acquire attractive acreage. As I mentioned in the Permian would be a good example of that. So across that portfolio, that trend continues to be positive in terms of reducing costs and improving capital efficiency. So that part of the business is also doing well.

ROGER READ: Okay. Great. Thanks. Then a follow-up question. Recent headlines indicated Argentina is going to actually be importing some crude. Obviously you are a major mover and shaker in the Vaca Muerta shale. I was wondering have you see any indications from the Argentinian government that they are willing to be -- I don't know, good term, flexible in terms of helping to accelerate activity down there?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: I will take the last part of your question first. We continue to have ongoing discussions with the government about fiscal terms and stability, and I don't have anything definitive to report on that but those discussions are ongoing. We have seen some positive signals out of the government recently, in terms of improving export and import conditions and what we are doing there. These are certainly positive steps that could lead to attractive business environment. But it is all part of progressing the programs and determining commerciality.

Obviously there is a huge potential resource in Argentina called the Vaca Muerta, we continue to have an active program there, I think we've got a total of six wells down. We've been drilling vertical wells in prior to this year. We are starting to drill our first operated horizontal wells. The first one down, the second one is drilling, and we will be getting the third one down shortly.

Again without being specific, I can tell you that the data so far from our drilling and delineation is encouraging, but it is still early days to determine actual commerciality. But if you get the combination of good fiscal terms and stability, and good resource development, that generally leads to a commercial resource development for you. So we continue to actively pursue that.

But again, for us, it is a very large resource. We got in at a very low entry cost, a very low commitment. And so that allows us to really go about this in a disciplined manner and really utilize some of the expertise XTO has to help us explore and delineate and appraise this resource without having to spend a whole lot of money up front. So again, we are encouraged and that piece of the business is moving along very well.

ROGER READ: Great. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Faisel Khan, Citigroup.

FAISEL KHAN, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: You talked a little bit about the increase in improving the profitability in the upstream business. You also discussed LNG prices. Can you remind us how much your total LNG volumes are exposed to the spot market?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: I don't have a total global number on that. I think probably what would be more indicative is if you take the US aside, of course, and you look at our total LNG volumes, most of those are going at oil index prices. But the rest of them, by and large, are going into the Asia-Pacific rim, so the spot prices there are fairly close to the oil index prices, and so you are getting a nice benefit there.

As well the occasional cargo that goes into Europe goes into the spot price, but those are attractive as well. So regardless of how the cargo is going either directly or indirectly, most of them, or probably all but about 5% are either oil indexed or are getting equivalent-type prices.

FAISEL KHAN: Okay. I was trying to understand the commentary given that oil prices haven't moved all that much sequentially quarter to quarter. But it sounded like that was a particularly strong point for you in the quarter.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Thank you. It was. And a lot of it is the mix of where these cargos get delivered and whether they are going to Europe or they're going to the Asia-Pacific rim, or whether you have a little higher proportion going into your fixed contracts versus your spot.

So we did see a little uplift on those prices. As you know, not all those contracts are the same in terms of how they look back and what the formula is. But if we look across for example our LNG realizations out of Qatar, and you are just looking quarter on quarter this year to last year, we were up a little over $1 kcf. So again, a nice piece of business.

FAISEL KHAN: Thanks. I appreciate that detail. Then back to Russia for a second. I believe you guys have some sort of asset swap arrangement with Rosneft that sort of protects you in case some of the investments get stranded in Russia. Can you just walk us through a little bit of that in case there are sanctions, and do you have recourse here in the US with sort of assets that Rosneft has swapped into with you in that sort of joint venture agreement you guys put together?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: I really can't comment on the terms and conditions of those pieces of business. Other than, we have the projects that we have in Russia, and they farmed into some of our properties on a normal farm-in basis just like anybody else would. But any discussion of contractual details or commercial arrangements, I really couldn't comment on.

FAISEL KHAN: Okay, got it. Thank you, David. I appreciate the time.

OPERATOR: Paul Cheng, Barclays Capital.

PAUL CHENG, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: David, two quick questions. You talked about the overlift benefit in the first quarter. Can you quantify that? What is the volume? And also the dollar value? And at the end of the first quarter, whether from an inventory standpoint you're roughly balanced or still overlift or underlift?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Sure. If you are looking in the first quarter relative to the first quarter last year --

PAUL CHENG: Can we look at relative to your production, actually?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Sure. I mean we are about 15 kbd overlifted in a quarter, on an absolute basis we are about 15 kbd overlifted and I would estimate that to be worth about $100 million.

PAUL CHENG: Okay. And then at the end of the first quarter, are you roughly balanced at this point?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: If we look at where we are just at the end of the first quarter, I think we are overlifted just a little bit, so we are not completely in balance, but we are fairly close.

PAUL CHENG: Okay. Second question, Permian. Now you are running at 10 rigs. Is there any kind of insight you can provide what is the run rate going to look like over the next two or three years? You just had two, should we assume that you will continue to ramp up the program there? And also whether you can tell us the 90,000 barrels per day production, what is the mix between black oil, condensate, NGL, and natural gas?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Let me start with the first part. We are, of course, ramping up activity in the Permian. We are doing it like we always do in a very disciplined approach. You don't want to get too far out in front of your headlights, so we have been building that rig count over the last few quarters. I did mention the additional acreage that we picked up in a very attractive area in the Wolfcamp.

As we move on, I would expect the trajectory to be the same. But I don't have any specific count for you. Again, in a lot of these areas, we are still delineating, we're still appraising, we are still experimenting with how we go about drilling and completing wells and that sort of thing.

But I think directionally, given the quality of the acreage that we have and the results we've had to date, I think it would be a reasonable expectation that we would likely grow that rig count over the course of the year. I think that would be logical. But again, always in a manner that keeps in mind the long-term development of these resources and not getting out too far in front and doing something that you will regret later.

So it is all about assessing what we've got. We are very, very pleased with our acreage, and then ramping up that production as is appropriate. And leaning towards that outlook we gave you in the analyst meet that showed a nice ramp between now and 2017, in total in North Americans liquid production, but Permian will be a big part of that. In terms of split on the liquids versus NGLs versus condensates, I don't have that split for you, Paul.

PAUL CHENG: I see. Okay. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Edward Westlake, Credit Suisse.

EDWARD WESTLAKE, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Three very quick tailends questions. People have said -- and thanks by the way for all the helpful color on Asia, LNG, and well done the execution on some of the key projects. Some other people have shouted out a gas marketing benefit given the cold winter in the US. Did you guys have something there that we should think about?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Well, I mean, we benefited from the higher gas prices. But other than that, we certainly don't do any trading, if that is what you were looking at.

So if that was the question, let me be clear. All of our earnings uplift comes from the production and sale of our gas. We don't do any trading.

EDWARD WESTLAKE: Good. Switching to the international chemicals. Obviously Q4 was weak and you have seen a bit of a comeback in Q1. Maybe just talk a little bit -- you shouted out a little lower other expenses. Maybe just a bit of a shoutout on what is happening there?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Sure. As we went from the fourth quarter into the first quarter of this year, we did have some significantly lower maintenance expense you might recall in the fourth quarter. It was pretty high. We had some turn around activity going on in Singapore and that is all behind us. That is the biggest driver in that other bucket.

EDWARD WESTLAKE: So it is not sort of a sea change in demand that you are seeing in the chemical chain globally?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: I would not say a sea change, but I would say that we are seeing some encouraging signs, the integrated polyolefins chain is seeing some pickup in demand, polyethylene sales have been good and we continue to see some nice demand pickup there. We did also see some pickup, which was seasonal between the fourth quarter and the first quarter in our specialties business.

But on the other hand, aromatics demand is weak, particularly in paraxylene, so there are some offsets. But I think generally speaking, we have seen a little better demand. We have been able to sell the increased production out of Singapore. So that part of the business is going well.

So I think as you kind of go from fourth quarter to first quarter in the chemical business, lower maintenance as we move from the first quarter to the second quarter; as you are probably aware, we are heading into a higher maintenance period. The Beaumont chem plant, for example, came down in early April and is down for a couple of month turn around, so we will see that impact.

But a really nice first-quarter operations on the chemical side. I think our capacity utilization particularly in North America, where of course we get a nice margin benefit; I think we were running about 2% or 3% on a capacity utilization, better than industry. So that is not only good in total, but on the margin those last couple of percent really, really ring the cash register for you on those sales. So good quarter for us in the chemical business.

EDWARD WESTLAKE: And just in cash flow statement, working capital contribution in the quarter?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: The working capital contributions I recall was just under $2 billion, about $1.8 billion. That was just a change in payables.

EDWARD WESTLAKE: Right.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Not a real big effect, if you think about total cash flows, a number less than $2 billion in a quarter. But it was payables driven.

EDWARD WESTLAKE: Then one bigger picture question. We always talk about shale. But obviously you have been doing a lot of offshore exploration, as well. When do you think you will get to the point where you can sort of update us in terms of actually getting after developing some of these deep water fields that you have got in the portfolio?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Yes. I think as soon as we have a little better indication exactly on what we have got in some of these areas. One that I can mention is Tanzania where we have had significant success, and planning is under way as we speak, not only with our partner, block 2 Statoil, but also with BG and Ophir broadly across Tanzania. So we are working at evaluating potential sites for an LNG facility, and we have made a recommendation to the government. And studies are progressing to really determine what would be the optimum development plan for our block and across that area.

So I would say all of that is progressing as you would expect for a resource of that size, but I could not give you a definitive development plan or timing yet. Julia is another deep water project that is well under way and we will start drilling there this year. We have got more drilling to do in Romania where we have had a very nice successful initial well there.

So a lot going on in some very attractive areas, but probably still just a little early to be talking definitive development plans or startups or FIDs or that sort of thing.

EDWARD WESTLAKE: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Evan Calio, Morgan Stanley.

EVAN CALIO, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Good afternoon. More housekeeping for me here. Exploration expenses much lower in the quarter, $338 million versus normal. Is that timing event or is there any explorations spend trending lower there?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: I wouldn't say there is any lower trend. It is really particularly if you look quarter on quarter, it was really just timing of expenditures, particularly in Russia and some other areas. But the program remains on track, on schedule, and I think you will probably see a little more normalized kind of trend as we go out into the year.

EVAN CALIO: Great. On the asset sale gain, you gave us color earlier that's included in income, was that an international upstream?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Yes. That was an international upstream.

EVAN CALIO: Got it. And maybe just lastly for me, with cash builds equaling asset sales here in the quarter, what was the consideration to holding the buy back flat sequentially? And then what do you need to see, you think, to raise it? Thank you.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: No change in our strategy with regard to shareholder distributions in general. You saw we got a nice 9.5% bump in the dividend this quarter, continuing a nice trend that you have seen in the last few years. So growing that dividend and making sure it is reliable and consistent, that continues to be at the top of the list for shareholder distribution. The buyback continues to be after that with the cash we have.

And although we do look at it on a quarter-by-quarter basis, we are always taking into account cash flow projections and business and that sort of thing. So again, on a Company our size plus or minus $1 billion, not a big number.

I do think it is note worthy, if you look at free cash flow, for example, in the quarter, particularly relative to the last few quarters, we did generate a total of $16 billion, put a bunch of that into the Business, funded both the dividend and the buyback, and still had $2 billion leftover. Half we paid down debt, and half we increased cash.

So again, if you are looking kind of sequentially across the last few quarters, very strong quarter in cash flow, consistent with the strong quarter in earnings.

EVAN CALIO: Got it. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Pavel Molchanov, Raymond James and Associates.

PAVEL MOLCHANOV, ANALYST, RAYMOND JAMES & ASSOCIATES: Thank you for taking the questions. One more on the cash allocation. By my math, this will be the first quarter that your dividend payout of $3 billion equals your share buyback. Is that deliberate? And do you see the two lines continuing to cross that way?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: I would say that was a coincidence. There was no deliberate effort to match those up or change any pay ratios or that sort of thing.

PAVEL MOLCHANOV: Okay. And then, this may be most relevant for your German acreage, but in the context of the Ukrainian crisis and a lot of rhetoric in Europe about ramping up shale development, any sense that permitting in Germany or elsewhere in Europe is starting to open up?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: I don't have any indication of that. There is a lot of discussion going on as we are all well aware, but nothing definitive. Nothing different than what has been going on.

As you know, we have a very attractive acreage position in Germany. We have been in discussions with the regulators for a while on the potential of that resource and those type of discussions are ongoing, but nothing specific to report on today.

PAVEL MOLCHANOV: Okay. Appreciate it, guys.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Peter Hutton, RBC.

PETER HUTTON, ANALYST, ROYAL BANK OF CANADA: And just two quick follow-ups. Cash again, you said no volume has been expected in 2014, but I wonder whether you could say what you had in your plans for 2015 and what those still are?

Also on the upside, you are talking about Tanzania, it has actually been quite some time since the recommendation has gone in about the location of the plant facility, yet still nothing has come out. Do we have a timing as when we might get that as the next catalyst in that area?

And then finally, the downstream. If you could say some words on the international downstream. That was slightly lower than a number of people expected. Profitability levels back to the early 2009. One of your competitors took a big impairment on their refining assets in Asia and being very clear about the structural weakness in that market. Is that something that you're seeing reflected and expect to continue out into the medium and long term as well? Thank you.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Let me take those in order. In Kashagan as I mentioned, in the outlook we showed in March we did not have any volumes for 2014. We did have some volumes in 2015. I don't want to give a specific number here today, but we did assume some production volumes in 2015.

In Tanzania, we don't have any final determination on the site, but I will tell you, the discussions are ongoing and going well. Nothing out of the ordinary and the plans for that are progressing at an appropriate pace. So I think all is well there.

PETER HUTTON: Okay.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: When we look at the downstream on the international side, yes, you did see some weak earnings there overall. We had a positive impact in Canada, if you saw the IOL results out this morning, very nice business there. We are running obviously advantage crudes into those refineries, and that piece of business is going well.

Outside of Canada, the rest particularly in Europe and the Asia-Pac, were weak. The biggest driver there is the margin. You had some surplus refining capacity come online in that area of the world the last couple of years and the demand is a little weak, so you have got some capacity expansion in excess of demand growth, so you do see some weakness there.

We are doing a number of things to improve our profitability there and improve our competitiveness. We have been spending some time on logistics and expanding feed stock flexibility, working to increase exposure to high-value product yields and less exposure to lower-margin products, continuing to work on operating expense and maximizing the logistics benefits we get both from the location of our refineries, particularly in Europe, but also that integration, full integration with the chemical business and the lubes business, which is doing quite well.

So I think if you look at that business, it is weak. It has been weak for a little while. These are always cyclical businesses, both in Europe and in the US, and in the Asia-Pacific rim, so you would not want to take current results and draw a long-term trend. So we are doing what we can, controlling what we can control.

And really, it is about making sure your refineries and your chem plants, for that matter, in any region are the most competitive in that region. That is what benefits you over the long term.

When you talk about potential impairment, we follow US GAAP with regard to impairment, and we look at that as appropriate. But from our perspective -- and it is different from companies that follow IFRS accounting rules. When we look at the US GAAP accounting, we don't see any exposure to that in that part of the world.

PETER HUTTON: Thank you.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: One of things you might recall, just quickly, when you look across both the downstream and the chemical segment, bear in mind the significant advantage we have on an ROCE basis for the rest of the industry. So when you look at the denominator, when you look at the capital employed in our Business, both on the chemical side and on the downstream side, our capital employed tends to be an order of magnitude lower than the others. So that helps generate the ROCEs, but also gives you a feel for how much capital is on the books.

And then the other thing of course we benefit from is the level of integration we have. So even as refining cycles one way and chemicals another one, you get some offsets. When they are both on an upswing, that is where you see the benefit of that integration.

Across the Business we continue to do well. We continue to generate the highest returns in the business, and don't have any long-term concerns.

PETER HUTTON: Okay. Thank you very much.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: And Mr Rosenthal, there are no other questions at this time.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude today's presentation. We thank everyone for your participation.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
exxn : Exxon Mobil Corporation
   IN
i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1300003 : Crude Petroleum Extraction | iextra : Natural Gas/Oil Extraction
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020140503ea510010a
  


 HD
 Q4  2013  Exxon  Mobil Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
12,119 words
   PD
30 January 2014
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©014 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day, everyone, and welcome to the ExxonMobil Corporation's fourth-quarter and full-year 2013 earnings conference call. Today's call is being recorded. And at this time I would like to turn the call over to the Vice President of Investor Relations and Secretary, Mr. David Rosenthal. Please go ahead, sir.

   TD
DAVID ROSENTHAL, VP, IR AND SECRETARY, EXXON MOBIL CORP: Good morning and welcome to ExxonMobil's fourth-quarter earnings call and web cast. The focus of this call is ExxonMobil's financial and operating results for the fourth quarter and full-year 2013. I will refer to the slides that are available through the Investor section of our website. Before we go further, I would like to draw your attention to our cautionary statement shown on Slide 2.

Moving to Slide 3, we provide an overview of some of the external factors impacting our results. Global economic growth continued at a modest pace in the fourth quarter with mixed performance across the region. Moderate US economic growth was sustained. China's growth rate stabilized, while Europe's economic recovery remains sluggish.

Energy markets delivered mixed results. WTI prices decreased more than $8 per barrel, widening the discount to brand as the global marker was only slightly lower in the quarter. Henry Hub natural gas prices were essentially flat. Global industry refining margins strengthened as stronger US margins were partially offset by continued margin weakness in Europe and Asia-Pacific. Chemical commodity product margins also declined over the quarter.

Turning now to the fourth quarter financial results as shown on Slide 4, ExxonMobil's fourth-quarter earnings were just under $8.4 billion, or $1.91 per share. The Corporation distributed $5.8 billion to shareholders in the quarter through dividends and share purchases to reduce shares outstanding. Of that total, $3 billion was used to purchase shares. CapEx was $9.9 billion in the fourth quarter. Cash flow from operations and asset sales was $12 billion. At the end of the quarter, cash totaled $4.9 billion and debt was $22.7 billion.

The next slide provides additional detail on fourth-quarter sources and uses of funds. Over the quarter, cash decreased from $5.7 billion to $4.9 billion. Earnings, depreciation expense, changes in working capital and other items, and our ongoing asset management program yielded $12 billion of cash flow from operations and asset sales.

Uses included additions to property flat and equipment of $8.4 billion and shareholder distributions of $5.8 million. Additional financing and investing activities increased cash by $1.4 billion. Share purchases to reduce shares outstanding are expected to be $3 billion in the first quarter of 2014.

Moving onto Slide 6, and a review of our segmented results, ExxonMobil's fourth-quarter earnings of just under $8.4 billion decreased by $1.6 billion from the fourth quarter of 2012. Lower earnings across all business segments were partially offset by reduced corporate and financing expenses.

In the sequential quarter comparison, shown on Slide 7, earnings increased by $480 million. Its higher upstream and downstream earnings and lower corporate and financing expenses were partially offset by lower chemical earnings. Guidance for corporate and financing expenses remains at $500 million to $700 million per quarter.

Turning now to the upstream financial and operating results and starting on Slide 8, upstream earnings in the fourth quarter where $6.8 billion, down $976 million from the fourth quarter of 2012. Realizations increased earnings by $60 million as worldwide natural gas realizations increased by $0.41 per thousand cubic feet and crude oil decreased by $2.38 a barrel. Unfavorable volume and mix effects, including the impact of crude under lifts in West Africa and the North Sea, along with lower natural gas production, decreased earnings by $550 million.

All other items decreased earnings by $490 million, reflecting increased expenses driven by Kearl operating costs and higher plant exploration costs in Russia. Upstream after-tax earnings per barrel for the fourth quarter were $17.95, excluding the impact of non-controlling interest volumes.

Moving now to Slide 9 , reduction decreased by 77,000 oil equivalent barrels per day, or 1.8% from the fourth quarter of last year. Liquids production was up 32,000 barrels per day, or 1.5%. Ramp up at the Kearl and Nigeria Satellites projects, lower downtime and continued increased production from unconventional plays in the US were partly offset by field decline and price and spend impacts. Natural gas production was down 654 million cubic feet per day, primarily due to expected lower US production and field decline in several areas.

Turning now to the sequential comparison, and starting on Slide 10, upstream earnings increased by $73 million versus the third quarter. Realizations decreased earnings by $430 million as worldwide crude prices decreased by $5.89 per barrel and natural gas realizations increased by $0.57 per thousand cubic feet. Volume and mix effects improved earnings by $90 million, reflecting increased global liquids and natural gas production. All other items had a positive impact of $410 million. Higher gains from asset sales were partially offset by higher operating expenses.

Moving to Slide 11, oil equivalent volumes were up 190,000 barrels per day, or 4.9% sequentially. Liquids production increased 36,000 barrels per day, mainly due to additional production from work programs in the US and the North Sea, Kearl ramp up and lower downtime, partly offset by scheduled maintenance in Nigeria and field decline. Natural gas production was up 973 million cubic feet per day, mainly due to seasonal demand in Europe.

Moving now to the downstream financial and operating results and starting on Slide 12, downstream earnings for the quarter where $916 million, down $852 million from the fourth quarter of 2012, mainly due to lower non-US refining margins. Volume and mix effects increased earnings by $110 million, driven by refining optimization activities. All other items, including higher operating expenses and unfavorable foreign exchange impacts, decreased earnings by $280 million.

Turning to Slide 13, sequentially, fourth-quarter downstream earnings increased by $324 million, improved refining margins, mainly in North America, increased earnings by $120 million. Volume and mix effects increased earnings by $330 million, reflecting favorable refining optimization activities. Other items reduced earnings by a net $120 million.

Moving now to the chemical, financial and operating results, and starting on Slide 14, fourth-quarter chemical earnings where $910 million, down $48 million versus the prior-year quarter, due to lower specially product margins. Positive volume and mix effects were mostly offset by other items.

Moving to Slide 15 , sequentially, chemical earnings decreased by $115 million, primarily due to lower margins in Europe.

Moving next to the fourth quarter business highlights, and beginning on Slide 16, we continue to advance our global portfolio of high-quality upstream projects. Construction at the PNG/LNG project is now nearing completion, with the focus shifting to commissioning key facilities and equipment and preparation for first LNG delivery now targeted for the third quarter of this year. Gas has been introduced above the gas conditioning plant at Heights and the LNG facility in order to progress commissioning activities.

The Kearl expansion project is on budget, is now more than 70% complete and remains on target for a 2015 start up. We continue to develop attractive logistic solutions to provide market access for our growing oil sands production from this future additional capacity.

At Upper Zakum we are progressing with our partners, the field redevelopment to raise production capacity to 750,000 barrels a day over the coming years. The increase is enabled through the use of four artificial islands, of which two are now complete and extended reach drilling using proprietary ExxonMobil technology. Civil works and facility additions will continue through 2015.

In 2013, the Upper Zakum joint venture was granted a 15 year license extension through 2041. The extension includes enhanced fiscal terms, allowing the expansion project to meet our investment criteria and contribute towards Abu Dhabi's plan to boost production.

In Iraq, we reached a production capacity of 500,000 barrels per day at the West Qurna 1development in 2013. We continue to progress additional capacity expansion through facility debottlenecking, work overs, new drill wells, and well tie-ins. We have also completed 3D seismic acquisition over the West Qurna 1 field.

In the fourth quarter we executed agreements to sell a combined 35% interest to Petro China and Pertamina, reducing our participation interest from 60% to 25%. We will remain as the lead operator for the project and are committed to continued to maximize value for all parties involved and redeveloping this world class resource.

Turning now to Slide 17 for an update on our exploration activities, in Tanzania the Mronge-1 well discovered an additional two to three TCF of natural gas in place from two separate intervals. The main accumulation is at the same strata graphic level as the proven Zafarani-1well. Secondary accumulation was encountered in a separate gas-bearing reservoir in a play previously untested in Block 2. Mrong-1 is the fifth discovery on Block 2 and brings the total of the gas in place up to 17 to 20 TCF. Further exploration drilling is planned for 2014.

In Russia , ExxonMobil and Rosneft completed joint venture agreements to implement a pilot project for tight oil development in Western Siberia. Operations for the pilot program are underway. We are evaluating data from the 2013 activity, which included a mix of work overs and new well drilling. The year 2014 will focus on drilling and testing new horizontal wells, with operations to commence by the third quarter. We are currently finalizing locations to test this high potential resource.

In Argentina we drilled our first operated well and are currently drilling a second operated well in the Vaca Muerta shell formation. Previously, we have drilled total of six Vaca Muerta wells with our co-venturers to progress the evaluation of our approximately 900,000 net acres. We have ongoing well operations to gather the production testing data required to validate expected recovery and to support credential development planning.

Turning now to Slide 18 and an update on our downstream investments which continue to strengthen our global portfolio, during the quarter we achieved several investment milestones. We commissioned a new diesel hydrotreater at our Singapore, refinery increasing ultra- low sulfur diesel production capacity by 62,000 barrels per day. The new unit, along with the recently completed petrochemical expansion project at our Singapore complex, positions ExxonMobil to competitively deliver high-value products to the growing Asia-Pacific region.

We continue to extend our operating cost advantage by improving energy efficiency at our facilities. Worldwide cash operating costs for our portfolio of refineries are well below the industry average and consistently outperform the competition. In November we commissioned our latest cogeneration facility at our Augusta refinery in Italy, increasing energy efficiency by 6%.

To support market access for our growing Canadian oil sands production, we announced plans to build a crude oil railway loading facility next to the Strathcona refinery in Edmonton. The terminal have a capacity of up to 250,000 barrels per day, of which we plan to use 100,000 barrels a day to supply our refining network. Connections to both Canadian National and Canadian Pacific mainlines will enable efficient, cost-effective transportation of heavy crude. Construction is underway and to start up is expected in early 2015.

Now I would like to provide a summary of our full-year results shown on Slide 19. 2013 earnings where $32.6 billion, or $7.37 per share. The Corporation distributed $25.9 billion to shareholders in 2013 through dividends and share purchases to reduce shares outstanding. Of that total, $15 billion was utilized to purchase shares.

CapEx in 2013 was $42.5 billion, and includes $4.3 billion for acquisitions. Base full-year CapEx of $38.2 billion was in line with our spending plans. Cash flow from operations and asset sales remains robust at $47.6 billion, which included $2.7 billion from asset sales.

Moving now to the full-year cash flow statement as shown on Slide 20, during the year cash decreased from $9.9 billion to $4.9 billion. The combined impact of earnings, depreciation expense, changes in working capital and other items and our ongoing asset management program yielded $47.6 billion of cash flow from operations and asset sales. Uses included additions to property plant and equipment of $33.7 billion and shareholder distributions of $25.9 billion. Additional financing and investing activities increased cash by $7 billion.

Moving onto Slide 21 and a review of our full-year segmented results, 2013 earnings decreased by $12.3 billion. Lower net gains from investments account for 70%, or $8.6 billion, of the reduced earnings. Lower earnings across all business segments were partially offset by reduced corporate and financing expenses.

Turning now to the full-year comparison of upstream results and starting on Slide 22, upstream earnings where $26.8 billion, down $3.1 billion for 2012. Improved natural gas realizations, partially offset by lower crude oil realizations, increased earnings by $390 million. Unfavorable volume and mix effects, including the impact of crude under lifts in West Africa and lower natural gas production, decreased earnings by $910 million.

All other items, including lower gains from asset sales, higher expenses driven by Kearl start up and operating costs, and higher-planned exploration costs in Russia reduced earnings by $2.5 billion. Upstream after-tax earnings per barrel for the year were $18.03, excluding the impact of non-controlling interest volumes.

Moving to Slide 23 , volumes decreased by 1.5%, or 64,000 oil equivalent barrels per day, compared to 2012. Excluding the impacts of lower entitlement volumes, quotas and divestments, production was essentially flat.

Liquids production was up 17,000 barrels per day. Ramp up at the Kearl in Nigeria projects , lower downtime and increased US production were partially offset by field decline and divestment impacts. Natural gas production was down 486 million cubic feet per day. As expected, lower US production, field decline in several areas and full-year AKG entitlement impacts in Qatar, were partially offset by increased weather-related demand in Europe and project ramp ups.

On Slide 24, we show actual 2013 production volumes compared to the outlook we provided at analyst meeting last March. Overall, total production volumes were in line with our target of $4.2 million oil-equivalent barrels per day, with liquids production slightly below target and gas production slightly higher. Several positive factors contributed to this result, including strong uptime performance, increased North America unconventional liquids production and higher European gas demand for the year. These factors mostly offset the lower-than-expected volume contribution from Kearl and the loss of Kashagan volumes due to the pipeline issue currently being investigated.

During the fourth quarter we continue to ramp up Kearl production, including making several upgrades to the steam system and filtration units to improve overall reliability. Average Kearl production for the fourth quarter and full-year was 47,000 and 21,000 barrels per day, respectively, and production rates of 1000 barrels per day were reached by the end of year.

Full-year comparison for the downstream is shown on Slide 25. 2013 earnings where $3.4 billion, down $9.7 billion from 2012. Lower refining margins across all regions reduced earnings by $2.9 billion. Volume and mix effects decreased earnings by $310 million, as higher planned maintenance activities in the US and Europe was partially offset by refining optimization activities. Other items, including the absence of gains from the Japan restructuring and other divestments, reduced earnings a total of $6.6 billion.

On Slide 26, we show the full-year comparison for chemical results. 2013 earnings where $3.8 billion. Higher commodity margins, partly offset by lower specialty margins, increased earnings by $480 million. Volume and mix effects also increased earnings by $80 million, mainly due to strong US commodity demand. Other affects reduced earnings by $630 million, mainly due to the absence of gains from the Japan restructuring.

Moving to Slide 27 -- in conclusion, in 2013 we earned $32.6 billion , generated $47.6 billion in cash flow from operations and asset sales, invested $42.5 billion in the business and distributed $25.9 billion to our shareholders. ExxonMobil's strong financial and operating performance reflects the benefit of our integrated business model and other sustainable competitive advantages that create long-term shareholder value.

We achieved total production in line with our target and continued to progress attractive opportunities across our unique and balanced portfolio. Base full-year CapEx spending was also in line with our plans. Our cash flow remains strong and enables robust shareholder distributions.

Finally, I would like to mention two upcoming events. First, in mid-February we will be releasing our 2013 reserves replacement data. Second, as many of you will already have seen, our upcoming analysts meeting will take place at the New York stock exchange on Wednesday , March 5. We will include a live webcast beginning at 9.00 AM Eastern, 8.00 AM Central Time. Presentation will be led by ExxonMobil's Chairman and CEO, Rex Tillerson.

That concludes my prepared remarks. I would now be happy to take your questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: Thank you, Mr. Rosenthal.

(Operator Instructions).

Our first question comes from Doug Terreson with ISI Group.

DOUGLAS TERRESON, ANALYST, ISI GROUP: Good morning, David.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Good morning, how are you?

DOUGLAS TERRESON: I'm doing fine. My question is about European ENP, and specifically whether or not we can get clarification on the supply restrictions at Groningen -- meaning, it seems like a 20% reduction in output is going to be required from the partners during the next three years, which I think equates to about 60,000 BOE per (inaudible) Exxon Mobile. So, is this a correct way to think about the supply effect in the duration of the restriction? And if so, any color on the situation would be appreciated.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Yes, Doug, I'd be happy to give you a little perspective on the Groningen situation. Let me start by saying that the government's draft decision does include a production decrease for the next three years of about 7%, compared to average production over the average of the last few years. If this indicated -- if this off-take limit is final, it would have an impact of approximately, on ExxonMobil, 100 MCF a day net production in 2014 versus the average of the last several years.

Now, compared to 2013, which is I mentioned is a year of very high production due to weather-related demand, there would be a decrease of about 20% and that's consistent with what was communicated by the Dutch government. Proposed curtailment is not final. It will take a little bit of time to finalize it. But if implemented, again, the impact on us, relative to what normal year, is about 100 MCF a day.

DOUGLAS TERRESON: Okay -- sorry, go ahead.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: I'm sorry, let me make one other comment to keep in perspective and add a little color. In terms of the financial impact on the Company, while Groningen is, of course, a very attractive asset in our upstream, the unit profitability is in the bottom half of our portfolio, so the earnings impact is not as great as I think some people might have expected.

DOUGLAS TERRESON: Okay, good point. And then second, in the US downstream, obviously you guys have the leading addition in the Mid-Continent and it is really benefited from wide differentials over the last couple of years, but I wanted to see if we could get an update on the program to secure advantage [feed stock] via railcars or what have you for the refineries outside the Mid-Con. Any elaboration on this is appreciated. I think you guys talk about it a little bit for the Gulf Coast at the analyst meeting, so just an update there would be appreciated.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Sure. In general, if you look at our Mid-Con footprint which, as we talked about before, is one of the largest in the industry, and you know, our Gulf Coast refining footprint is also one of the largest. So we've got a lot going on in terms of making sure that we can get the Western Canadian crudes down into the circuit and also take advantage of the light sweet crudes.

And we are, you know -- pipeline, rail, barge, we are using all of the logistics opportunities available to us to optimize those barrels getting refineries. And that's a big piece of what you see in these positive volume mix effects on our earnings recs, both quarter-to-quarter, sequentially, and that sort of thing, particularly if you look at that sequential comparison, where we've really been able to optimize the fee slate we are running, and of course take advantage of butane pricing as we switch over to winter-grade fuels, and so that's been helpful to us as well.

But we are actively progressing that, and the fourth quarter was a good one for us. And I might just mention, one of the things that makes that important in the earnings comparison, we did have, in the fourth quarter alone, about $250 million of negative price timing effects, so that hurt on the margin side, gets somewhat offset by some of these refining optimization efforts that we talked about.

So we continue to work on that. One of the things that helps is being fully integrated across the downstream, upstream and chemical and having a worldwide supply department to help us on this. But you can rest assured from Canada all the way down to the Gulf Coast we're fully optimizing and taking advantage of our integration opportunities.

DOUGLAS TERRESON: Great, thanks a lot.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Evan Calio with Morgan Stanley.

EVAN CALIO, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Good morning, David.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Good morning, Evan.

EVAN CALIO: First question on the production volumes. I guess from your comments I can desegregate the impacts from Kearl and Kashagan in the fourth quarter; yet, can you provide any outlook into 2014 on Kearl, what's the ramp, and more color there? And on Kashagan, which you mentioned, is there any prognosis for the production return and the state of the gas leak repairs? And I have a follow-up, thanks.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Sure, let me start with Kearl. I can't give you an exact time of when we would expect to reach our full production capabilities. I will say, although the Kearl volumes did come in over the course of the year, as I mentioned, less than our expectation going in and certainly part of the volume outlook we shared with you last March, we did achieve a number of milestones in cranking that project up. We have been able to run each of the three froth treatment trains at their max capacity. On a combined basis, we've been able to reach rates at 100,000 barrels per day.

What we are working on now is, is how do we improve the reliability so that we can run at those rates on a consistent basis, and we continue to make progress there. And, again, I think as I've mentioned in prior calls, the good news for us is all the technology is working, the trains work, the equipment works. It's simply been just a matter of startup and this complex kit we've got on the ground and working some of these reliability issues that I mentioned.

But they are all fixable. We are working on it. We are making progress, but I wouldn't want to give you an exact date in terms of full capacity. But we will give you an update at the analysts meeting in March, and probably in a better position to help you with some outlook on that.

With regard to Kashagan? As you know, oil and gas production does remain shut in. We are investigating, we've got the best experts in the world looking at this. We are investigating the root cause of the pipeline leaks and the seeps. That's going to take a little more time.

We do know that the immediate cause of the leaks has been sulfide stress cracking, but we are still investigating to establish, what's the cause of the sulfide stress cracking and that is ongoing. There's a lot of work going on, a lot of analysis underway, but I just couldn't give you an outlook. I know there's some speculation out there, various times, but I'd be hesitant to try to give you an outlook until we know more about both the cause and extent of the leaks, and therefore what it is going to take to repair them and get that equipment back in service.

EVAN CALIO: Okay, that's helpful. And then my second question is on -- it also relates to the production, and 2014 production. Thank you for the color on Groningen. I guess there, is there any ability to offset volumes from other European fields? Is this largely a demand-driven market? And then, and secondly, in another area which has been very profitable and a marquee investment for Exxon and Qatar LNG, any color there on the relative contribution as you move through various contract thresholds, getting those contracts would be helpful. Thanks.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Yes, let me start off with Groningen. As you know, it is the swing field in Europe, and tends to take the balance of what's needed, depending on weather, typically, unless there's some supply disruption. And so, that's really what drives the production there year-to-year, more so than capacity.

In terms of ability to offset, we are already working everything we've got. As you know, Continental Europe conventional gas is on decline. North Sea gas is on decline. So we do feed LNG into that circuit out of the Middle East. But it has to compete with prices that you can get in Asia-Pacific ,so we will be looking to optimize that. But, again, under normal circumstances, loss of about 100 MCF, but we will be looking to optimize around that to the best we can.

If you are talking about Qatar, I think the one thing to keep in mind is, other than the AKG project, all the rest of the trains are joint ventures. They are not PSCs, so they don't react the same way that PSCs do. They do all have unique fiscal terms associated with them. But I can tell you as time goes on, we don't see any significant impact on the earnings contribution, anything that would be material, so we continue to remain focused on keeping that equipment up and running.

We had a terrific year on up time and reliability. That enabled us to take advantage of some very strong margins that are available -- prices, particularly in Asia-Pac. So it continues to be a terrific investment for us.

EVAN CALIO: Great, thanks for taking my questions.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Doug Leggate with Bank of America/Merrill Lynch.

DOUG LEGGATE, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Good morning, David.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Good morning, Doug.

DOUG LEGGATE: I have a couple questions also, if I may. The first one is on the long-life nature of some of your assets. It just kind of occurs to me that when we -- obviously haven't given out a replacement number for the year yet, but as your portfolio shifts towards the likes of Qatar and the likes of Kashagan and so on -- Kearl --all these very long-life assets, what is the determination internally about the need for reserve replacement to be at or above 100% when you have such a huge piece of your portfolio that doesn't that decline on a multi-decade basis?

And I've got to follow-up, because I thinking, really, about capital intensity of the overall portfolio.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Let me hit the capital intensity first, and I will use that to back into your original question. We have been in a very capital-intensive mode in the upstream over the last few years as we re-capitalize and invest in a number of these big projects. Some you mentioned, coming out of Qatar and into Kearl, Papua New Guinea LNG, Gorgan LNG, the Kashagan, of course. You have seen a ramp-up in CapEx on these long-life projects. But as we talked about in the March analysts meeting last year, we do have an expectation of rolling that upstream CapEx over a little bit as we go forward, and we will give you an up date on that in March, but we continue to progress that.

In terms of having a target of 100% reserve replacement? We don't really have a target. In other words, we're not going to go out and do things that are not optimal just to achieve a 100% replacement target. We basically -- you know the Company and the organization well. We span the world looking for good opportunities, good resources to get access to. And if they are commercial, we will put investment capital and human capital in there to develop them. We have been fortunate over the last many years that the summation of all this effort has achieved 100%, or greater than 100%, reserves replacement.

But I'm glad you asked the question, because I do want everyone to know that we do not go and spend the shareholders money to reach any kind of target, like a reserves replacement. It is the outcome of are very disciplined analytical process. And, again, making sure that the CapEx is being spent in those areas that have the best opportunity to generate long-term value for the shareholder.

And I think, the last thing I will mention, Doug, as we look around the world and you look at our exploration portfolio, one of the things that's really nice today is our ability to be selective amongst that portfolio and pick and choose those opportunities that we want to go after, and do the most attractive ones, and the reserve adds will be the fallout of that. But thanks for asking the question.

DOUG LEGGATE: Sure. My follow-up, David, very quickly, is on the Middle East again, specific to the Adco concession. I know it's fixed-margin and relatively little in the grand scheme of things, but can you just explain for us with the situation is with that contract? I believe it expired in January 1, and whether or not you have any chance of recouping that at some point? And I will leave it there, thanks.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: The Abu Dhabi onshore concession expired on January 10th of this year. We did have a 9.5% interest in that. That worked out to about 140,000 barrels a day of production. We are no longer in that concession. I will tell you, you mentioned fix-margin contracts. While it was 140,000 barrels of production, the unit profitability of that was down at the lower end of our [seriatim] of profitable barrels.

So that's the status on the onshore. I really couldn't comment on any discussions, opportunities, forward-looking thoughts other than to give you a status of where we are today.

DOUG LEGGATE: All right. Thanks, David.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Ed Westlake with Credit Suisse.

ED WESTLAKE, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Hey, good morning, David.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Morning, Ed.

ED WESTLAKE: Seems we're all fishing for your slides in March on the production volumes, so why not fish again? Just very quickly, the reduction in the West Qurna stake -- how much did you include longer-term in the slide that you put up each year in terms of the new projects for West Qurna? Do you know?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Yes. What I can tell you is, when we put up that slide in March of every year, and it is important to know this , we do it on an apples-to-apples basis. So we assume the status quo ,and the same as prior-year prices, so it allows you folks to get a look at what we would be status quo. So no assessments every March in terms of acquisitions, divestments, contract expiries and all those sort of things. So last year, we would have had an assumption of the status quo in that -- in the outlook.

I can tell you that the way the contracts work, we don't book a lot of barrels in that area and so the reduction will not be significant. I don't have a specific number for you other than to tell you it won't be significant in the overall context of our production.

ED WESTLAKE: Okay. And then, just trying to shift the conversation on -- can you talk a little bit about where you are in terms of all your rig counts, again, in North America, some of your plans? Obviously the industry's announced some success in the Duvernay, you've got some good acreage in the Woodford, and the core of the Bakken and the Permian -- just a quick update on where you are in the oily drilling in North America. Thanks.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Sure. As you can tell by the sequential quarter-to-quarter-to-quarter sustained increase in US liquids volumes, we have been really orienting our rigs towards the more liquid areas. Biggest places for us, the Bakken, the Permian and the Woodford Ardmore? Most all of our rigs are running in those areas. We continue to ramp up. We are adding rigs in the Permian, for example, both for conventional liquids as well as testing some of the unconventional . We are drilling in the Motteny and the Duvernay, as you suggested, and increasing activity there, as well as in the Bakken.

If you look at the rigs we are running today, it is not 100%, but it is probably 85% or so of all of our rigs are working in liquids-focused plays, and thus you've seen that significant increase in production. We are bringing a lot of wells on to sales every quarter and continue to ramp that up.

We are testing new areas, new zones in these plays, the Marietta in the Ardmore, for example, looks very promising to us and we will be getting more wells down there, the Wolfcamp out in the Permian, and a number of those plays. So we're very pleased with the acreage we've been able to acquire and get into, and ramping up pretty dramatically.

If you look at a number of these things that are occurring over the years, over this year, a lot of it gets back to the commentary we made at the analyst meeting about working on improving unit profitability, and you do that by limiting, or reducing, your exposure to low-profit barrels. Working on fiscal terms where you can, and putting your human and financial capabilities in those areas that generate above average incremental profitability. And we've been executing those efforts this year and we will give you better up date at the March analysts meeting on the extent of that program.

ED WESTLAKE: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Paul Cheng with Barclays.

PAUL CHENG, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: David, good morning.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Good morning, Paul, how are you?

PAUL CHENG: Very good. So sorry that -- to beat that horse too much. If I looked at your last year presentation in the analyst meeting on the production profile, can you tell us that for 2014, 2015, roughly how much is building into that -- to pick the profile you shared from the (inaudible) Kashagan, from the Abu Dubai, (inaudible) and also the Groningen?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: I don't have a specific number for Kashagan. Abu Dhabi would have been something in the neighborhood of the 140,000 barrels a day I mentioned. And Groningen would have been whatever the equivalent would have been, again, for an average year. So I think the important thing to think about is, the difference would be what we've mentioned today for both Groningen and the onshore. And again, we will be giving you a full update on our outlook that will incorporate those changes and many others that we have heading into 2014 when we get together in March.

PAUL CHENG: Okay. The second question -- when I'm looking at Imperial, in the fourth quarter, the report downstream earnings of CAD625 million? So if we adjust for your working interest and the foreign currency, it would suggest that your share of the downstream earning is about $417 million. Meanwhile, that you're low -- on US downstream only report $319 million? If that means that outside Canada, the rest of your global downstream operation actually lost about $100 million? Or that is some different -- other accounting adjustment that we can weigh on?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Let me give you a little perspective on that. First of all, as I mentioned a few minutes ago, one of the issues we did see in the quarter was price timing affects about $250 million negative in the US and that impacted those earnings. We do see weakness in our European and Asia-Pacific businesses out there. Margins are weak. The economy is a bit sluggish. So both on the refining and the chemical side, you're not seeing an earnings contribution there that you would see in an up cycle, because we're -- as I've said before we are bottom-of-cycle margins.

We also had, in the fourth quarter, a higher turnaround and maintenance load in Europe. Our Antwerp refinery ,for example, had a major turnaround, so you're looking at some volume impacts there. But clearly, we are optimizing the European and Asia-Pacific footprint as best we can with the integration between refining chemicals and lubes, but those are week markets compared to the US and Canada, without question.

PAUL CHENG: Can I just sneak in one real quick one? For the quarter, you have a cash proceed from asset sales of $1.8 billion. Can you tell us, what is the other sales gain in the quarter, and break down by segment?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Sure. If you look at, first of all, the proceeds from asset sales we had a number of asset sales in the quarter. I mentioned our partial sell-down and Iraq. We had a number of sales in the US and in Canada, additional service stations as we continue to progress that effort. We booked the films divestment on the chemical side. So a number of things contributed to that $1.8 billion.

In terms of an earnings contribution, in the fourth quarter that total was about $1 billion dollars, all in, in the quarter, across all the businesses and that compared to about $400 million in the fourth quarter of last year.

PAUL CHENG: Dave, do you have a breakdown by segment on that $1 billion?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Sure. If you look in the upstream, right about $775 million; in the downstream, about $225 million, order of magnitude.

PAUL CHENG: Thank you.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Those are absolute numbers.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Blake Fernandez with Howard Weil .

BLAKE FERNANDEZ, ANALYST, HOWARD WEIL INCORPORATED: Hi, David, good morning, thanks for taking the question. I couldn't help but ask a question on natural gas here, given the recent spike that we've seen . I know the volumes for Exxon have been progressively in decline due to the activity, but I'm just curious -- is there a certain pricing level we you may get interested and reengage in activity? And I guess, tied in with that, I know historically the Company doesn't hedge, but with the recent move we've seen, is an opportunity to maybe lock in some economics and get more active?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: I will hit the last one first and then back up. No, we don't hedge oil and gas prices and I wouldn't expect that to change here.

In terms of natural gas pricing, you have seen some firming here in the last several weeks. We've had a very cold winter in the US and the demand for gas in the PowerGen and heating has been very strong. So we've seen a fluctuation on the upside for that. But we don't change our activity levels and investment plans to any significant extent on short-term price movements in the commodities.

We do have tremendous flexibility in our operations. I think our drill well inventory here in the US is about 50,000 wells, so that we can -- we certainly have the capability to move our activity around. But again, we don't typically move dramatically one way or another on a short-term price spike or decline. But do acknowledge that we have seen some price uptick here recently.

BLAKE FERNANDEZ: Okay, fair enough. The second question is on Tanzania. Obviously, you've had some really good success there and, from what I gather, it looks like sufficient resources to probably move forward with the development. So I'm curious, can you give us an idea of maybe timing on potential FID and maybe what additional resources you may need to move forward?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Sure. First of all, it all starts with that resource and we have found a very high quality gas resource out there with the wells that we've drilled so far. I think I mentioned earlier 17 to 20 TCF gas in place. I think one of the things that's encouraging is, we still have several more prospects on that block that haven't been drilled yet and so we are continuing to drill. We will drill some more this year. We will be doing some appraisal drilling and some more wildcat exploration activity, so that continues to go very well.

In terms of forward planning, we are in the early stages of planning for the development of that block, working on things like site selection. You are probably aware that us and our partner Statoil have worked with BG&O (inaudible) to complete an evaluation of potential sites for a common onshore LNG plant. And we have made a recommendation to the government in Tanzania regarding that. The next step, as you progress, would be moving into early feed, to kind of see what you have there.

But it is a little too early to be talking about any potential FID date at this time. But clearly, as we always do, if you have what looks to be an excellent resource, you put the human capital on it and get to thinking about development and optimization and I can assure you that process is well underway. Will probably be able to get a little better update in March as well on that opportunity, but for now I'd just say, we're moving right along and very pleased with this world-class discovery that we've made.

BLAKE FERNANDEZ: Thanks, David.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Arjun Murti with Goldman Sachs.

ARJUN MURTI, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Thanks. David, just a couple follow-ups. First, on the natural gas point -- fully appreciate Exxon classically does not adjust to the short-term price swings. Is it reasonable to think that kind of mid-single digit decline you've had will continue for the next several years, or as you've access the XTO in you're own resource space between the Marcellus and Woodford and some of the other areas, do you see greater confidence in the cost and the resources that the decline rates might be lower or different than what you've done, say, over the last year and half?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Yes, that's a multi-part question, and both of those can be independent or work together. Certainly, we have continued to make good progress in terms of productivity, well rates, down spacing, optimizing our completions and drilling. So we've been able to make the progress we always thought we would when we acquired XTO and combined their folks with our folks and looking at some of these things, so that continues to improve.

It is hard to give an overall decline curve, because, as you know, that's -- a lot of time, that depends on well work activity and work overs and various other things and a lot of that will be driven by the activity levels, which of course are dependent on longer-term price outlooks. So I think from our perspective, with the resources there, the opportunities are there. We know all these plays. We know how to produce more gas, and when the market needs the gas, we will provide it. But -- so it is a market driven activity and the outcome in terms of production and reserves and decline will be based on the outcome of those activities, as opposed to any target that we might set.

But we can adjust quickly. We do have the capability to adjust quickly if the market needs the gas.

ARJUN MURTI: That's great. And in an unrelated follow-up, you mentioned the partial sell down in West Qurna in Iraq to 25%. I think a few years ago you'd also bought some acreage in Kurdistan. you provide any update in your activities there? I think there'd been some question, at least at a time, as to whether you could pursue activities in southern Iraq and Kurdistan, so any thoughts on what you are doing in Kurdistan would be helpful.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Sure. If you look at the Kurdistan region in northern Iraq, I can tell you that we continue to progress all six of the PSE contracts we have there and meet our commitments. Specifically, we do have drilling operations underway in one of our blocks. That drilling is ongoing. I don't have any report out for you yet, but those operations are underway. And we continue to do seismic and another operations on our other blocks in preparation for drilling there.

I think in summary, across Iraq, of all of our contracts in the North and the South, we continue to meet our commitments and we continue to progress our operations in all of the areas, and I'm pleased to say that all of them are progressing per the plan and doing quite well.

ARJUN MURTI: That's great. Thank you so much.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from [Assad Sen] with Cowen and Company.

ASSAD SEN, ANALYST, COWEN AND COMPANY: Two quick questions. First on asset sales. Looks like the $1.8 billion in the fourth quarter did not include a portion of Hong Kong Power. Could you update us on the Hong Kong Power sale?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Sure. You are right, that $1.8 billion did not include any proceeds from the Hong Kong Power sale. As you are aware, we have reached agreements to divest our interest in those facilities. Those approval efforts are ongoing and -- but it is not closed and it won't close for a little while, but the process is moving along and we would expect to close that deal sometime later this year.

ASSAD SEN: Okay. And the second one is on PNG/LNG . It is very unusual to see a big LNG project coming on ahead of schedule. My question is, what sort of volumetric contribution do we expect in Q4 in the ramp-up phase?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: I might just add to our comment about how unusual it is to see one of these mega projects stay on schedule. I will also note that we are still on budget and we have not increased the cost outlook on that project since the outlook we gave over a year ago. So, we are on or ahead of schedule and on budget.

I don't have a specific volume outlook for you for the fourth quarter. It is all going to depend on how we get this thing ramped up. But I think, as I mentioned earlier I think we've been saying we'd have first deliveries in a second half, and now we move that up a little more concrete to the third quarter, and as we progress commissioning, we'll be in a better position here in March to maybe give you a little better update in terms of what to expect.

But everything is working well, the drilling, all the commissioning, feeding the gas, the equipment, and that's why we were able to give a more specific target of the third quarter. But we'll look forward to giving you a better update here in a month or so.

ASSAD SEN: Thanks.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Faisel Kahn with Citi.

FAISEL KHAN, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Thank you and good morning, David.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Morning, Faisel.

FAISEL KHAN: I wanted to clarify -- the gain on the assets of $1 billion, you said? Was that for the year or for the quarter?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Yes, thanks for that follow-up so that we can be clear. The absolute gain in the fourth quarter was $1 billion. And that compares with the gain of about $600 million in the fourth quarter of last year, so we've had a change of a positive $400 million.

FAISEL KHAN: Okay, understood. Just on exploration expense? It's sort of been elevated for the last three quarters and I understand some of that is coming out of Russia, but can you give us an idea of how this number is posed to trend? Because if gone from roughly $450 million to over $700 million a quarter and so it is tending to have an outsized affect on some of your expenses. Any sort of clarification or sort of guidance in terms of where that should be would be helpful.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: The biggest driver of the exploration expense, as you noted, has been our pickup in activity in Russia and it is in all areas, so we are talking about all the work that we did this summer in the Kara Sea, the seismic we've been running, the efforts we have in West Siberia as well as across the Black Sea, Northern Black Sea and then over in Russia. So we have had a lot of exploration activity in support of what is going to be a very robust drilling program this year and next year in a number of these areas.

So that is ongoing. It is nothing that we haven't planned or expected as we came into this year and look forward to this year. But I don't have an outlook in terms of a forward look. Again that's one of those areas we will talk a little bit more about in March. But you know, dry hole expense has been kind of low this past year so hasn't been a big contributor to that, so it is been just a lot of work identifying those drillable prospects and preparing for again an active drilling campaign.

FAISEL KHAN: Thank you, David. Appreciate the time.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Allen Good with MorningStar.

ALLEN GOOD, ANALYST, MORNINGSTAR: Good morning, David.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Morning, Allen.

ALLEN GOOD: I wonder if I could pressure maybe for a bit more detail on the Western Siberia and tight oil campaign, whether it'd be maybe rig counts or planned wells for 2014 and maybe even what you anticipate production exit rate in 2014 might be?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Sure, I'd be happy to give you an update. We've got a lot of activity going on, a lot of a geotechnical work, seismic work. As I mentioned in the last quarter call, we did have a lot of effort in terms of entering some old well bores, doing some other activity in the fourth quarter of last year.

As we head into this year, now's the time to move on to a drilling program where we would drill some horizontal wells and see how we can get various areas to produce. One of the things that's really important for us with the size of our acreage position is to make sure we understand where we are in the play, what are the most prospective areas and that takes a lot of analysis so you don't waste a lot of money drilling wells. But we've got a lot of expertise in this area that we acquired from XTO. We are bringing that full bear along with some of our own technology that we have. And we are looking forward to getting some more wells down this year, testing the production capability of some of these areas.

But it would certainly be premature to give any indication or thinking about exit rates or production rates, because we are early on in this analysis and, again, it is a very huge resource opportunity in front of us and it certainly behooves us to take our time and go about this in a disciplined manner so that we don't waste a lot of money, while at the same time finding out what this very exciting play is capable of doing, and this will be a big year for us.

ALLEN GOOD: Okay, thanks for that. And then, I know you don't give guidance on asset sales or what you may be marketing, but earlier this week I guess one of your peers came out and indicated he's willing to sell a pipeline asset down here in the US, and I was just wondering -- presumably, you're sitting on a lot of midstream assets that may not necessarily receive the value that they would in the market, being incorporated within Exxon, given the level of disclosure and the size of your business. Is there any interest -- and I know, it may well be another question, any interest in potentially trying to monetize some of these midstream assets you have? Or do you think you could just have more value, ultimately, through operating and maybe degrading your operation as opposed to selling them?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: It is interesting. If you look back over the last couple of years -- so, 2011 and 2012, we actually did divest a fairly significant chunk of those midstream assets that we had, not only in the US but elsewhere, and that was a portion of those large asset sale gains that we had in cash flows in those two years.

I cannot give any specific outlook or asset, but as you would expect, we are continuously looking at all of our assets, including our midstream assets. What those values are to us internally and what they might be on the market. And we test the market occasionally with some of these.

So again, they're not sitting there not getting looked at and evaluated, but it is all part of a program to look at the entire logistics footprint that we have. And so I mentioned the Edmonton rail facility we are building, so where it is optimal for us, we will add midstream facilities and where some midstream assets that we have are worth more to somebody else then they are to us, then we will divest them. So again those specific outlook or assets -- but we are continuously looking at that entire portfolio.

ALLEN GOOD: Okay, great, thanks.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Roger Reed with Wells Fargo.

ROGER REED, ANALYST, WELLS FARGO SECURITIES: Good morning.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Good morning.

ROGER REED: I guess, just a follow-up little bit on the chemicals business -- I know there been a few questions on it already, but I wanted to understand the changes you saw in the fourth quarter -- and Exxon was not particularly unique, we definitely saw a greater competition out there. But as we look forward into 2014, what's going on in terms of new competition pricing and all. Kind of let us know how you fall into that or how you would expect 2014 to unfold on the chemicals side?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Yes, as I have on a number of other questions, I cannot give an outlook today on any kind of financial parameters for the business, but one of the things we've seen recently -- first of all, we will start here in the US. We continue to take advantage of a very good market there. Demand has picked up a little bit, and of course gas cracking is also a very attractive business for us and we have been fortunate in that we've been able to run our facilities along the Gulf Coast flat-out here over the last quarter, and therefore make the production we need to meet the market demand. So those margins in the US remain healthy, demand pick up a little bit, export opportunities also very attractive and we are maximizing all that.

On the other side of the planet, margins continue to be quite weak in the Asia-Pacific area. We did have some capacity come on last year, and as typical in our business, this never a perfect match between capacity additions and demand growth. Demand growth tends to be out there for a while, and then people put on the facilities and they tend to come on in chunks, and for a while you'll have supply outstripping demand, and we've seen that in the number of areas, number products, particularly in Asia-Pac area. Those have a tendency to balance themselves out over time. We are also seeing some demand pick up in China and the rest of the Asia-Pac area, and that is helpful.

I mentioned the specialties business. We have seen some weakness there, particularly in Europe, again, both from the economic situation there, as well as additional industry capacity that's come on.

So I'd characterize it as kind of normal cyclical business for the chemical industry. Across many years you've got the US at kind of top-of-cycle business conditions today, and Europe and Asia-Pac kind of at bottom-of-cycle. And that's why we have, over time, invested in each of these places where we can bring some technology or get a feed slate advantage or a logistics advantage in order to be able to supply all of those reasons through the business cycle, but most importantly be able to take advantage when you get an upside and we are certainly well-positioned to do that with our facilities. Combine that with the level of integration we have, and if you look overall it is kind of a tough market, but we did make almost $4 billion this year in that business and that's pretty strong performance.

ROGER REED: Fully agreed. Thanks. And then, the unrelated question -- you mentioned in the press release the LNG for Alaska. I was just curious, is there anything you can do to help us understand more conventional business, North Slope crude in Alaska, you had to a tax change that the government put through up there. We've seen some indications that the other participants in Alaska are getting a little more active. I just wondered, how does Exxon participate in that? Is it basically along with the others, so maybe there is a lot of it of growth coming from Alaska in the near future ,or if it's, you're waiting for something larger like to more offshore drilling that looks like it continues to slip out to the future?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: What we have seen across the business up there is pretty much what you'd expect. Lower taxes have led to folks to take another look at their investment opportunities. And investments that were not viable under the old regime could very well be viable under the new regime, so you have seen some activity up there. As you know we are a large participant owner in Prudhoe Bay. We are not the operator , but any of the growth that you see there in some of the projects and activity increase that you've seen announced and underway in Prudhoe Bay up on the North Slope we would participate in.

So obviously, everybody up there is looking at that and it's still a very key resource for us. As opportunities become attractive, of course with our partners we'd be willing to invest in that. So I think that's pretty straightforward on the North Slope.

If you look at the Alaska LNG opportunity for us, as you know it is one of many opportunities we are looking at across the globe for LNG. We did, as you read in the press, have a heads of agreement here recently, another very positive milestone. It is that's guiding principles, terms and conditions to progress the work on the project. So we are continuing to progress that.

We have, after a long evaluation process looking at locations, we have identified an industrial site near Nikiski as a lead site for the potential plant and terminal. We are looking at other sites. But I think the message is, that's potentially a very large, very complex project, and so all of the stakeholders are progressing the analysis and looking at that project in due course, and we're, of course, are a big part of that.

ROGER REED: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Robert Kessler with Tudor, Pickering, Holt and Company.

ROBERT KESSLER, ANALYST, TUDOR, PICKERING, HOLT AND COMPANY: Good morning. I see you finalize the Canadian rail terminal project plans. Can you tell us what the total CapEx will be for that 250,000 real day facility? And then how you think about it more strategically? I know, at least to me, Exxon seems more like a vertical integration player, where you see an opportunity in your downstream and you set up a midstream opportunity here to really integrate, but others seem to be using rail as more of an optionality, so if the spreads get a certain distance and other transport routes are not available, you use them kind of opportunistically. So can you tell me how you're thinking about the expected utilization rates that facility? Is it more of a base run, near 100% or are you leaving it out there as an option?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Yes, let me hit the first part of your question first. We would expect the al- in capital cost for that JV to be somewhere in the neighborhood of $200 million to $250 million. And that's a 50/50 joint venture, so we've got about half of that. The terminal will have -- the max capacity could be upwards of 250,000 barrels a day. Out of that, we are looking at utilizing, initially, about 100,000 barrels a day to move our expanded production into the market.

With the growing production of Western Canadian crudes, both heavy crudes and oil sands, it is prudent to be working on all of the logistics opportunities so that you do get a lot of optionality, as you mentioned, but also the flexibility to be able to better pinpoint the destination of some of your crudes as of various regional opportunities present themselves.

We are taking full advantage of all the pipeline opportunities that are out there and working on that. Other modes of transportation by water are also being utilized. And then, again, as is prudent, we are looking at the railcar option. So it is all about optionality, flexibility and being able to take advantage of spreads and opportunities to maximize the overall value. We've been working on that for quite a while.

The other thing having the flexibility on the transportation piece is, it really helps us on both the integration with our own refining circuit, as well as have any opportunity and viability to make third-party sales. So the more options, you have a more flexibility you have, the better off you are to divert production to areas different than what you might have originally planned. So we are taking all of that into consideration.

ROBERT KESSLER: Make sense. Thanks for the clarification.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Pavel Molchanov] with Raymond James.

PAVEL MOLCHANOV, ANALYST, RAYMOND JAMES & ASSOCIATES: Hey, guys. Just one for me, and this is a high-level question. On the day that the Senate Energy Committee is debating crude oil export policy, I know that Exxon's perspective on this is going to be closely watched, so any thoughts on the issue and where the Company stands?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Sure. I'd be happy to talk about that. It is a topical subject.

First of all, our response is principle based as you would probably guess. As a Company we fully support free markets, free trade. We oppose any barriers or restrictions to free trade and open investment across the value chain in the energy sector. Over time, I think it is pretty clear that barriers to free trade can actually lead to higher prices, dampen economic growth and prosperity, and, in this case, could potentially harm energy security by limiting the diversity of supplies.

Trade is good, free trade is the best way to maximize the economic value of any enterprise, including oil and gas enterprise, it generates the most jobs, generates the most revenue to the taxing authorities. And so across the business, that's what we support and we would not advocate putting any restrictions at any point along the manufacturing value chain, even if it might benefit some part of our business.

In addition to crude oil we, strongly support unrestricted LNG exports, even though we are very large petrochemical company and consume a lot of petrochemical feed stocks. So the bottom line, big supporters of free markets and free trade, level playing field for all competitors, and then let the market do what it does best.

PAVEL MOLCHANOV: All right, appreciate it, guys.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Biraj Borkhataria with RBC.

BIRAJ BORKHATARIA, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Hi, David. Thanks for taking my question. I have two, if I may. Firstly on LNG, you touched on it a couple of times on the call. I wondered if you could talk through your options to expand in this growth area outside of Tanzania and P&G?

Secondly, I wonder if you could talk a little bit about your thought process when setting dividends? You obviously have a very strong balance sheet, and the highest returns in the industry, and you can afford a significantly higher dividend, so I was wondering if you could talk little bit about that?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Sure. Let me start with LNG, because we are very pleased to have a broad opportunity set in front of us. In addition to Papua New Guinea, Australia, and Tanzania, as you mentioned, we have a very attractive opportunity in the US Gulf Coast, where we already have a very large re-gas facility, so a lot of that investment is already on the ground. We have an opportunity to add liquefaction capacity there.

One of the things that makes our project unique is we also have re-gas capacity available in Europe from some investments that we made in prior years. We have the opportunity to simply add liquefaction capacity on the front end and then export that LNG and take advantage of a number of opportunities, not least of which is capacity we have to re-gasify in Europe.

We have received a permit for free trade agreement countries and we've had a permanent application in for some time for non-free trade agreements and that continues to be a nice opportunity.

We also are looking at the possibility of viability of LNG exports out of British Columbia and Canada. We have a very large resource base in Western Canada of natural gas and we do have efforts underway in our progressing. In fact, we just received a permit approval for a potential up to 30 MTA facility in Western Canada. We are working on site selection and other things there.

Then of course Alaska, which we just mentioned a minute ago, huge resource, a great opportunity, but again, like the other projects, very high capital cost, very complex. It will be extremely important to have attractive stable fiscal terms as it is in any area, but that's also an opportunity for us.

So again, it is all about having a broad, balanced portfolio of opportunities so that you can select those that are the most attractive, but you don't find yourself in a position where you have to do something that's not attractive, and our LNG opportunity certainly fits that case.

In terms of dividends, we have been pretty briskly increasing the dividend over the last few years. We had a fairly significant dividend increase -- I think it is about 20% or so in 2012, another 11% increase this past year, and it extends a very long period of time that we've been increasing dividends. So I think we've been responsive in that area.

In terms of going forward, I wouldn't expect any change to our overall philosophy with regards to the dividend. We do expect to pay a consistent dividend that grows over time, and obviously we are able to do that given the strong cash flows the business generates and our strong financial capacity. So, don't have any outlook or guidance or anything, other than to say that I would expect our philosophy going forward to be the same as has been historically.

BIRAJ BORKHATARIA: Perfect, thank you.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: It appears there are no further questions at this time. Mr. Rosenthal, I'd like to turn the conference back to you for any additional or closing remarks.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Okay, I simply like to thank everybody for their participation on the call. I appreciate your questions today, very important to our business, and look forward to seeing everyone here in a few weeks at the analysts meeting in March. So thank you very much.

OPERATOR: This concludes today's conference. Thank you for your participation.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
exxn : Exxon Mobil Corporation
   IN
i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1300003 : Crude Petroleum Extraction | iextra : Natural Gas/Oil Extraction
   NS
c151 : Earnings | c184 : Joint Ventures | nitv : Interviews | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Performance | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020140201ea1u000hj
  


 HD
 Q3  2013  Exxon  Mobil Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
12,334 words
   PD
31 October 2013
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©013 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day and welcome to this ExxonMobil Corporation third quarter 2013 earnings conference call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time for opening remarks, I would like to turn the call over to the Vice President of Investor Relations and Secretary, Mr. David Rosenthal. Please go ahead, sir.

   TD
DAVID ROSENTHAL, VP, IR AND SECRETARY, EXXONMOBIL CORPORATION: Good morning and welcome to ExxonMobil's third quarter earnings call and webcast. The focus of this call is ExxonMobil's financial and operating results for the third quarter of 2013. I will refer to the slides that are available through the Investors section of our website. Before we go further, I would like to draw your attention to our cautionary statement shown on slide 2.

Moving to slide 3, we provide an overview of some of the external factors impacting our results. Global economic growth remained constrained in the third quarter, with mixed performance across the regions. The US economy continues to grow at a moderate pace, following an upward revision of second quarter growth. China's growth improved modestly, while Europe's economic conditions remain uncertain. Energy markets delivered mixed results compared to the second quarter, with higher crude oil and lower natural gas prices. Global industry refining margins deteriorated significantly, reflecting moderate demand and improved capacity availability. Chemical commodity product margins strengthened during the quarter on lower feedstock costs and increased US demand.

Turning now to the third quarter financial results, as shown on slide 4, ExxonMobil's third quarter earnings were $7.9 billion, or $1.79 per share. The Corporation distributed $5.8 billion to shareholders in the third quarter through dividends and share purchases to reduce shares outstanding. Of that total, $3 billion was used to purchase shares. CapEx in the third quarter was $10.5 billion and $32.6 billion for the first nine months of 2013, in line with anticipated spending plans. Cash flow from operations and asset sales was $13.6 billion. At the end of the third quarter, cash totaled $5.7 billion and debt was $21.3 billion.

The next slide provides additional detail on third quarter sources and uses of funds. Over the quarter, cash increased from $5 billion to $5.7 billion. Earnings, depreciation expense, changes in working capital and other items, and our ongoing asset management program yielded $13.6 billion of cash flow from operations and asset sales. Uses included additions to plant, property and equipment of $9.1 billion and shareholder distributions of $5.8 billion. Additional financing and investing activities increased cash by $2 billion. Share purchases to reduce shares outstanding are expected to be $3 billion in the fourth quarter.

Moving on to slide 6 and a review of our segmented results. ExxonMobil's third quarter earnings of $7.9 billion decreased $1.7 billion from the third quarter of 2012. Lower downstream earnings were partly offset by higher upstream and chemical earnings.

In the sequential quarter comparison, shown on slide 7, earnings increased by about $1 billion across all segments, reflecting higher upstream realizations, lower refining maintenance, improved chemical, commodity margins, and lower corporate and financing expenses. Guidance for corporate and financing expenses remains at $500 million to $700 million per quarter.

Turning now to the upstream financial and operating results, and starting on slide 8. Upstream earnings in the third quarter were $6.7 billion, up $740 million from the third quarter of 2012. Stronger prices increased earnings by $440 million, as worldwide crude oil and natural gas realizations increased by $2.85 per barrel and $0.56 per thousand cubic feet, respectively. Production volume and mix effects increased earnings by a net $20 million, as the benefit from higher liquid volumes was mostly offset by the impact of crude underlifts and lower natural gas production. All other items, mainly favorable tax and foreign exchange impacts, increased earnings by $280 million. Upstream after-tax earnings per barrel for the third quarter were $18.16.

Moving to slide 9. Production increased by 58,000 oil equivalent barrels per day, or 1.5% from the third quarter of last year. Liquids production was up 83,000 barrels per day, or 3.9%. Lower down time, mainly in Nigeria, the US, Kazakhstan and Canada, ramp up at the Kearl and Nigeria satellite projects, and continued increased production from liquids-rich unconventional plays in the US were partly offset by field decline. Natural gas production was down 147 million cubic feet per day. As expected, lower US production and field decline in several areas were partially offset by lower downtown, mainly in Qatar, and project ramp-ups.

Turning now to the sequential comparison, starting on slide 10, upstream earnings increased by $408 million for the second quarter. Realizations increased earnings by $410 million, as worldwide crude prices increased $7.67 per barrel and natural gas realizations decreased $0.53 per thousand cubic feet. Volume and mix effects decreased earnings by $150 million, as increased liquids production was more than offset by the impact of underlifts in a number of regions, including the North Sea and West Africa, and by lower natural gas production in Europe. Other items had a positive impact of $150 million, primarily reflecting the absence of exploration cost reimbursement to Rosneft in the second quarter.

Moving to slide 11, oil equivalent volumes were down 1.4% sequentially. Liquids production increased 17,000 barrels per day, mainly due to project ramp-ups in Canada and Nigeria, and lower overall downtime, partly offset by field decline. Natural gas production was down 440 million cubic feet per day sequentially. Lower seasonal demand in Europe and field decline were partially offset by lower down time in Qatar. Our year-to-date production volume performance continues to be in line with the projection presented at the analyst meeting in March, with strong uptime performance, increased North American unconventional liquids production, and higher European gas demand for the year offsetting the slower than anticipated ramp up of Kearl. We remain on target to meet the 2013 volume outlook presented at the analyst meeting.

Moving now to the downstream financial and operating results, starting on slide 12. Downstream earnings for the quarter were $592 million, down $2.6 billion from the third quarter of 2012, due to lower global refining margins of almost $2.4 billion. Volume and mix effects increased earnings by $150 million, driven by lower refining maintenance. Other items reduced earnings by $380 million, including the absence of gains from the Switzerland investment.

Turning to slide 13, sequentially, third quarter downstream earnings increased by $196 million. Lower global refining margins decreased earnings by $870 million, while volume and mix effects increased earnings by $500 million, reflecting reduced maintenance activity. Other items increased earnings by $570 million, primarily due to the absence of the Dartmouth refinery conversion costs, lower maintenance expenses and favorable foreign exchange impacts.

Moving now to the chemical, financial and operating results, and starting on slide 14. Third quarter chemical earnings were just over $1 billion, up $235 million versus the prior year quarter, due mainly to stronger margins from higher commodity realizations in all regions.

Moving to slide 15. Sequentially, chemical earnings increased by $269 million. Improved commodity margins, helped by favorable feed costs in the US, increased earnings by $110 million. Strong US commodity sales volumes further increased earnings by $60 million. Lower costs associated with Singapore's new steam cracker start-up and lower planned maintenance favorably impacted earnings by $100 million.

Moving next to the third quarter business highlights, beginning on slide 16. The next two slides provide an update on upstream projects which recently started or will start production next year. Beginning with the 2013 project start-ups. At Kearl, we are currently producing at or above 100,000 barrels per day. Over the past few months, we have undertaken normal start-up related fine tuning and synchronization activities of our facilities, which are not unusual for new operations of this scale and magnitude. Kearl incorporates a number of technology innovations, such as our proprietary froth treatment process which significantly enhance environmental performance and reduce capital investment. Successful application of this new technology was confirmed, as Kearl bitumen is now being processed at a number of ExxonMobil and third-party refineries. The Kearl expansion project is on budget, on schedule, and now nearly 60% complete. Fabrication and assembly of pipe rack and equipment modules for the bitumen processing plant are progressing in Edmonton and are 80% complete. Learnings from the initial development are being applied to the construction and commissioning of the expansion project.

On the logistics side, Enbridge initiated construction of the Woodland mainland pipeline, which will extend 385 kilometers south of [Cheachem] to the Edmonton terminal and connect with refineries and export pipelines. This new pipeline will have an initial capacity of 400,000 barrels per day, with the ability to expand to approximately 800,000 barrels per day, depending on crude viscosity.

The Kipper Tuna Turrum project in Australia has started, with gas production from the Tuna field, via two new gas pipelines, and first oil production from the Turrum field through the new Marlin B platform. This project represents the largest new domestic oil and gas development on the Australian Eastern seaboard. With reserves of 1.6 trillion cubic feet of gas and 140 million barrels of recoverable oil and gas liquids, Kipper Tuna Turrum will help secure East Australia's energy future.

First production from Kashagan was achieved in September and production ramped up to near 80,000 barrels per day. In late September and again earlier this month, traces of gas were detected along the onshore gas pipeline route from one of the production and drilling islands to the onshore processing facility. The operator is currently investigating the root cause of the events, and it is now anticipated that inspection and investigation will take some weeks to conclude. Production will remain shut in until this work is complete.

Turning now to slide 17 and an update on some of our projects scheduled to start up in 2014. The PNG/LNG project is now more than 90% complete. We achieved several important milestones during the quarter, including completion of drilling at the first well pad and starting the commissioning phase at the LNG plant, in preparation of production start-up in the second half of 2014. The plant has now been pressured up with gas to initiate power generation and enable testing of key facilities and equipment. The estimated cost of the project remains at $19 billion, reflecting disciplined project management in a unique and challenging work environment.

The Cold Lake [Nabiye] development in Canada is 60% complete and progressing per plan towards a 2014 start-up. This is another long plateau development which will access a resource of 280 million barrels of oil and produce an additional 40,000 barrels of bitumen per day. The [Nabiye] project includes a new steam plant, field production pads and associated facilities. Equipment installation is well underway and six of the seven initially planned drilling pads, with 24 wells each, have been completed to date.

Moving next to Qatar, the Barsand project is another major step in our long and successful relationship with Qatar Petroleum. All of the 30 production wells are now complete and the wellhead platform top sides have been installed. Start-up is planned for late next year. When completed, the project will provide gas to the state of Qatar to meet the country's growing need for clean-burning natural gas. The first phase of the project is to supply about 1.4 billion cubic feet of gas per day together with the sale of associated condensate, LPGs and ethane.

Also in Qatar, the Helium 2 plant project, operated by Rasgas, started up during the quarter. The plant is expected to produce approximately 1.3 billion cubic feet per year when fully operational. The Helium 2 plant is the world's largest helium refining facility, and makes Qatar the largest exporter and second largest producer of helium in the world. As Qatar continues to reliably supply international markets with LNG, extracting helium from the produced gas is a profitable value-added activity which helps meet the world's ever-growing demand for liquid helium.

Turning now to slide 18 and an update on our progress in Russia. I will start by highlighting another milestone in the successful Sakhalin 1 development. The consortium marked 10 years of drilling success, pioneering the industry's extended reach drilling technologies while leveraging ExxonMobil's 90-year history of Arctic expertise. Since 2007, a number of world records in extended reach drilling have been set by the Sakhalin Yastreb rig at the Chaivo and [Edoptu] 2 fields. To date, 23 of the 30 world's longest extended reach wells are Sakhalin 1 wells. The current world record is held by a Sakhalin 1 well which was drilled at the Chayvo field earlier this summer to a length of 12,700 meters. ExxonMobil's proprietary technology has minimized drilling vibration and improved overall economic efficiency, while reducing the environmental footprint of the Sakhalin 1 project. The relentless emphasis on safety, flawless execution, and implementation of unique drilling technologies have made Sakhalin 1 a premier project in the global oil and gas industry.

Now turning to our [Kutendagi]. This will be the largest offshore oil and gas production platform in Russia, making the Sakhalin shelf a model for Arctic and sub-Arctic project developments. Construction of the top sides was completed in Korea earlier this year, and commissioning of the drilling rig and top side facilities are 40% complete. Installation of the top sides onto the gravity-based structure next year will set a new world record for float over installation offshore, at 42,000 tons. Start-up is planned for the end of next year and production will peak at around 90,000 barrels per day.

In West Siberia, operations for the pilot program are underway. Instead of drilling new wells, we entered and deepened existing well bores, which has sped up the process to acquire new petro physical log data and core samples. This information will help identify key produceability parameters for the Baginov, and will help optimize new horizontal drilling locations planned for 2014.

In preparation for exploration drilling in the Kara Sea, the Rosneft ExxonMobil joint venture recently completed a month-long ice defense field trial to test sea ice and iceberg tracking systems that will be used to protect the drilling rig. All operations were successful and completed safely. ExxonMobil's Arctic leadership and continued successful execution at Sakhalin 1 position us well as we prepare to ramp up the exploration program in the Kara Sea in 2014. Also, in the Black Sea, site surveys were completed in preparation for drilling to begin in late 2014 or early 2015.

Turning now to slide 19 and an update on our global and broad exploration program. In September, drilling started on the Maronge 1 wildcat in Block 2 offshore Tanzania. The Maronge 1 well targets reservoirs equivalent in age to those successfully tested by the [Zafarone] and [Lavone] wells, in addition to another reservoir interval previously untested in Block 2. Further wildcat drilling is planned for 2014.

In Argentina, ExxonMobil spud the first operated well on the [Baho Del Chucke] block, targeting the Vocamorta formation. This is the first of three ExxonMobil operated wells that will be drilled in sequence on the block.

In Canada, ExxonMobil, in partnership with Imperial Oil, acquired Conoco Phillips' interest in the [Klidon] oil sands lease. The [Klidon] lease is near Imperial's corner lease holdings and contains 226,000 gross acres of high quality oil sands amenable to the steam assisted gravity drainage, or SAGD, in situ recovery technique.

Turning to Brazil, ExxonMobil was awarded the interest it successfully bid for in May. ExxonMobil acquired a 50% interest in the Pottaguar 762 block and a 50% interest in the Sierra 603 block, totaling more than 750,000 gross acres offshore northeastern Brazil. ExxonMobil will be the operator for both blocks.

In Gabon, ExxonMobil has reached agreement to acquire a 30% participating interest in the offshore Aruway block. The operator Parenko, along with the third-party equity holder Tolo, is planning a wildcat well in 2014.

Turning now to slide 20 and an update on our North American liquids activities. In the Permian Basin, we are ramping up activities to develop both conventional and unconventional reservoirs across our leading position of 1.5 million net acres. We currently have eight operated rigs and have turned almost 100 wells to sales this year across the entire basin. Current net production is more than 90,000 barrels per day. More than 65 workover rigs are also active on our Permian properties, increasing production by opening additional zones and performing fracture stimulation treatments. We are also optimizing development and expanding infrastructure in our CO2 projects in the Central Basin platform area in order to enhance oil recovery.

We also continue to actively evaluate unconventional potential across our Permian acreage, highlighted by the Wolf amp, Wolf Bone, Wolf Berry and Bone Springs reservoirs. In the Bakken play, our gross operated production recently hit a record 65,000 oil equivalent barrels per day. For the quarter, oil equivalent production increased by 81% over the prior year quarter, driven by a record 85 wells turned to sales year-to-date and the 2012 Danbury transaction. This volume increase reflects the benefits of well pad development drilling and optimized well completions across our core Bakken acreage.

In the Woodford, well results continue to be strong, with peak 30-day equivalent production rates up 17% year-to-date. For example, a recent five-well pad completion had a peak seven-day production rate just below 4,000 barrels of oil and 13 million cubic feet of gas per day. We also continued to develop infrastructure for our growing liquids production, recently putting into service a 65-mile oil gathering pipeline in the Ardmore area.

In conclusion, in the third quarter, we earned $7.9 billion, generated $13.6 billion in cash flow, invested $10.5 billion in the business, and distributed $5.8 billion to our shareholders. Business performance remains strong across our portfolio. In the upstream, we increased liquids production from project ramp-ups and lower downtime. Total production volumes are on target to meet the full-year outlook provided at the analyst meeting. In the downstream, refinery throughput increased upon successful completion of a significant planned maintenance activities in the second quarter. Chemical business results remain strong, on increased commodity product demand and lower feedstock costs.

Across the corporation, CapEx is in line with anticipated spending plans. Our cash flow remains strong and enables robust shareholder distributions. We maintain a long-term perspective on our business, with a relentless focus on operational excellence and disciplined investing through the business cycle. As discussed in the business highlights, we continue to progress a unique and diversified set of profitable growth opportunities which position us well to deliver long-term shareholder value. That concludes my prepared remarks and I would now be happy to take your questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: Thank you, Mr. Rosenthal.

(Operator Instructions)

And our first question comes from Evan Calio with Morgan Stanley.

EVAN CALIO, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Good morning, guys. How are you?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Good morning, Evan. How are you?

EVAN CALIO: I'm good. I'm good. Maybe I missed it in your opening comments on the discussion on the cash balance, but the additional financing investing item, will that show up in the balance sheet, meaning what was the change to debt in the quarter?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: That was the $2 billion. That was an increase in our debt.

EVAN CALIO: Okay. And while it may be premature, I know you guys addressed this at the analyst day, but what are your thoughts with regard to potentially reducing CapEx on a forward basis, which has been a theme, primarily in Europe, or using, as you did in this past quarter, some of your significant and potential leverage to continue to fund the buyback.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Evan, if we step back to the analysts' meeting in March, we did show somewhat of a rollover in CapEx going forward, I think particularly in the upstream, with a little higher investment in downstream and chemical. And we will update that in the next analyst meeting. But right now, I don't have any new number to give you, and so that's still a good outlook for us as we go forward.

In terms of leverage on the balance sheet, no real change in our approach. You have seen us, over the course of this year, increase leverage just a bit. But that's really to get us back to where we were if you go back to about 2010. So if you look across the 2011 and '12 time frame, where we had significant cash flow, including from asset divestitures, over those two years, we returned a lot of that cash to the shareholder. We also paid down a lot of debt. And so this increase you've seen this year really just kind of gets us back to about where we were. But no real change in approach to the balance sheet or distributions to shareholders.

EVAN CALIO: Great. I'll leave it there. Thank you.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Okay. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Doug Harrison with ISI Group.

DOUG HARRISON, ANALYST, ISI GROUP: Good morning, David.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Good morning, Doug.

DOUG HARRISON: I have a question about E&P, and specifically after-tax profitability appears to have increased versus the year ago period in both the US and the international arena. But in your E&P earnings charts that you highlighted, they didn't indicate that volume mix effects played much of a role in its improvement. And so I wanted to see if you could provide some color on unit profitability excluding tax and foreign exchange benefits, and specifically whether or not the trend's improving, and really just any of the drivers of E&P profitability that you're able to provide color on.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Sure, I'd be happy to provide a little more color on that. So if you're looking at quarter-over-quarter, you see on the chart, and I mentioned in my prepared remarks, a net increase of about $20 million. We did have an underlift this quarter of about 25,000 barrels a day in a number of areas, including West Africa and the North Sea. And if we had not been underlifted, earnings would have been notionally $100 million or so higher. So that might have been more closer to what you expected. And we did see quite a nice contribution on the liquids side, and that was offset a bit by a declining, as we had expected and had talked about, on the gas side of the business.

So if I look at the third quarter, things came out really just about the way we expected, higher liquids, particularly in some of our more profitable areas, and then a decline in gas volumes, particularly in the US. And so as we talked about at the analyst meeting, we are taking steps and we'll continue to take steps to strengthen profitability. I think if you look at our third quarter results and the flow through of higher realizations to the bottom line, I think our unit profitability actually went up a little more than our realizations did. So I wouldn't want to take any one quarter and say we've set a trend, but we're certainly starting to see the impact of the higher liquids volumes and a little lower gas volumes in the US, as we had expected.

DOUG HARRISON: Okay. Thanks a lot, David.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Doug Leggate with Bank of AmericaMerrill Lynch.

DOUG LEGGATE, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Thanks. Good morning, David.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Good morning, Doug. How are you?

DOUG LEGGATE: Not too bad, thank you. I wonder if I could ask you about production volumes. I realize you've got a lot of projects on the ramp-up phase, and slide 9 shows us the year-over-year impact. But can you help us understand what stage of their evolution the new projects are? And what I'm really trying to get to is -- I know it's not an easy question to answer -- but are we at the point now where the ramp-up in the stuff that's started up already is now enough to offset the underlying decline so that we can hit that inflection point in growth? And I've got a follow-up, please.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Sure, Doug. If you look, particularly on the liquids side, which is, I know, where the focus has been, you're certainly starting to see an inflection point off of where we've been as the new projects have come on line. I mentioned it's really a mix of some things are doing a little better than we were expecting this year, and that has more than offset a little slower ramp up in Kearl. So if I were to step back and look at overall as the projects are coming online, the satellite projects in West Africa, the Kearl project, et cetera, we are starting to see the kind of turnaround that we talked about at the analyst meeting and we've been discussing since then.

One of the other things that we've seen this year, particularly year-over-year, is much lower downtime. Our operations are running very well this year. We're very pleased with the progress we've made, particularly on the liquids side in some of our higher margin areas, but also on the LNG side of the business. So when you have the combination of lower downtime on some of your better profitable barrel equivalents and the turnaround and uplift that you're starting to see from the liquids production volumes, including here in the US, you saw we had a nice increase just in the US.

So I would say, again, I wouldn't want to grab any one quarter, but if you're looking directionally and look at trends, we are starting to deliver on the commitments that we've made and the projects that we've talked about. And then as I mentioned in my prepared remarks, as we look forward into 2014, our major projects are on schedule, on budget, and we continue to be very pleased with that progress. And then as you know, that continues on into the 2015 and 2016 time frame. So we're on track to deliver that big wedge of volume we talked about between year-end 2012 and year-end 2017, and things are progressing well.

DOUG LEGGATE: Thank you. My follow-up, David, is really -- I know you've been on the road a fair amount this last several months and there seems to be -- I'm really looking for you to clarify, or at least put the debate to rest. There seems to be some debate over whether or not you are going to stick with your capital budget as -- your multi-year capital budget as laid out at last year's analyst day. And in light of where the share price is, I guess it goes back to Evan's question. The share price has, frankly, been pretty awful this year on a relative and absolute basis. How is management thinking about the reward that some of your overseas competitors have had by cutting back capital, and how are you thinking about maybe being a bit more aggressive on the buyback to take advantage of, or at least address the weakness that we've seen so far this year? And I'll leave it at that. Thank you.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Sure. Thanks, Doug. Let me hit those three things. On the CapEx side, there is no new outlook relative to what we said at the analyst meeting. We're certainly updating our plan now and we'll give an update in March. But when we look at our investment plan that we showed you, we don't have any information to date that would suggest a major change from what we said.

As opposed to -- regards to the stock price, the market determines that. We are executing on the things that we can control, flawless execution of the base business, making sure our assets are up and running. When the margin's as good as you've seen in the chemical business this quarter, where our up time rates were extremely high and we're capturing that value-added there on the margin, particularly in the US. And then I mentioned the operations that we're having in the upstream. So if we're looking at the things that really generate shareholder value, short-term and long term, running the business well, we're seeing that and bringing those big projects online and benefiting from the CapEx profile that we've had the last few years, and you've seen that.

In terms of the buyback, no change in the buyback. It continues to be a quarter to quarter decision. And I updated you on the third quarter, and it's another three -- or the fourth quarter, I'm sorry -- another $3 billion. And we'll have another update on that in the next earnings call.

DOUG LEGGATE: Thanks, David.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: All right. Thanks.

OPERATOR: We'll move now to Ed Westlake with Credit Suisse.

ED WESTLAKE, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: --earlier this year. Just on the CapEx comment you made, about CapEx rolling over, that's presumably mainly the Celtic acquisition that you flagged in the analyst day?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: If you look at where we are on CapEx, I said we were in line with expectations. But if you kind of step back to the analysts meeting, we had said we'd spend about $41 billion in total. We had about $3 billion in there for the Celtic acquisition. So if you were to look at what we showed you ex-acquisitions, that would have been about $38 billion. As we sit here through the third quarter and we take Celtic and add in the [Klidon] acquisition, that's about $4 billion, round numbers. If you take the $4 billion away from the $32.6 billion you're seeing year-to-date, that's $28 billion and change. So I don't have another number for the end of the year, but from what we can see, we're going to be pretty close as we head through the fourth quarter, and we're generally pleased with how we've been able to manage such a large project load this year and keep that CapEx disciplined to bring these projects in on budget. So again, that's a large number, too close to call for the year-end, but we feel pretty good about where we're at.

ED WESTLAKE: And just to switch to the downstream in chemicals. Obviously in the second quarter, you were still burdened with Singapore costs and you had, as you flagged, a lot of downtime. When you think about the third quarter operations as you look across the world, do you feel that that's a more normal kind of level of operations that most of the turnaround and downtime activity was not in that quarter, so it was clean?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Yes. When you look at -- we step back to the second quarter, as we talked about on the last call, significant downtime, a lot of planned maintenance. Again, I'm happy to say that we came out of all of that very successful on the turnarounds and maintenance, concluded in a safe manner, and that's come out very well. As we came through the third quarter, all of that equipment came back up fine, running well, capacity utilization's doing well. So the third quarter is more of a kind of normal quarter, I guess if you were looking from that perspective. We have some minor turnarounds, as we always do, coming up, but nothing specific. So as we look in the third quarter and as you saw from our earnings charts, the margin hit was big, but the volume mix effects reflecting the turnarounds coming off and excellent operations boosted back. We took what the market had on offer in terms of margins, and we're able to take that to the bottom line.

ED WESTLAKE: And maybe one final one. Just on the restructuring in the downstream. Obviously, you've already taken some moves to improve the competitiveness of the refining assets relative to the market environment. But any thoughts about perhaps being more aggressive here, given some of the trends and some of the capacity adds and gasoline margins globally that we're seeing?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Well, I wouldn't want to give any guidance specifically on that program. We did, as you point out, have a very successful multi-year program on some asset restructurings and some asset divestitures in the downstream, particularly during an up cycle in the business. So we certainly brought a lot of value home to the shareholder. Going forward, no big change in approach. We're always looking at all of our assets, and we're always talking to people. People are approaching us. And so we'll see how that goes. Ao no change, more aggressive, less aggressive, just optimizing the business and bringing the value home whenever we have the opportunity to do so.

ED WESTLAKE: Thanks, David.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: All right. Thank you.

OPERATOR: We'll move now to Paul Sankey with Deutsche Bank.

PAUL SANKEY, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Hello, David.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Good morning, Paul.

PAUL SANKEY: David, reading between the lines, are we saying that 2013 is a peak year for CapEx?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: If you look at the chart that we showed in March, it would indicate that this was a peak year. And again, really don't have a change to that. Our expectation is what we've seen, which is the upstream CapEx would trend down as some of these projects come on and other ones continue to spend. As we mentioned, we still believe we have some nice investment opportunities in both the downstream and chemical. In particular in chemical, we've talked about a major expansion opportunity potentially in the Gulf Coast with a new steam cracker and some polyethylene lines. We're expanding the specialties business elsewhere around the world. So those investments still look good. We do have some nice investment opportunities in the downstream that still look attractive. So I really don't have any different signal or any different fundamental change in the opportunity set than what we've talked about this year. Of course, we'll update that in March. But as of now, I don't see any change to what we've talked about before.

PAUL SANKEY: Which would imply that it would be a peak year for CapEx. And then I guess the risk there, as you've highlighted, is actually non-operated, which is obviously the Gorgan project?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Well, we do not have an update on the Gorgan project. And obviously, it would be appropriate to defer to the operator for that kind of update. But we don't have an update on that project, as of today.

PAUL SANKEY: And speaking of non-operated, could you -- I think you may have done this, but could you just remind us what the contribution of cash again was in Q3 and what you anticipate it will be in Q4?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Yes, it was fairly small across the quarter. I don't have that exact number. It came online, it got up to 80,000 barrels a day and went down. Looking into the fourth quarter, Paul, I really don't have any kind of an outlook or estimate for you. The operator is currently evaluating and inspecting the gas line and trying to get to the root cause of what happened there. And until we know that, it's hard to give an outlook. We just have to wait and see and find out what remediation, if anything, is necessary and how long that might take. But as you would expect, that investigation and evaluation is ongoing, as we speak. But we will stay shut in until it's complete. And I just don't have any better outlook than that.

PAUL SANKEY: Understood, David. And then finally, could you just remind us -- I think what you said here is that your debt levels in the quarter rose, net debt rose, but you maintained your buyback. So in other words, you're now increasing debt in order to buy in shares. Is that a fair statement?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: I would separate those two things. The share buyback is reflective of how things are going in the quarter and looking ahead at the business and our cash needs and cash avails. The debt is simply managing the capital structure on the balance sheet. We're kind of up, as I mentioned, to levels that we were a couple of years ago, but still fairly conservative, a lot of flexibility as we like to keep on the balance sheet. I think our debt to equity ratios and some of the other metrics that people look at on the balance sheet are all pretty much within where we've been historically coming out of the low period we had, as I mentioned, in '11 and '12. So no real change in either approach or any other outlooks to offer in that regard.

PAUL SANKEY: Okay. Thanks, David.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Sure. Thank you, Paul.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Blake Fernandez with Howard Weil.

BLAKE FERNANDEZ, ANALYST, HOWARD WEIL INCORPORATED: Hello, David. Good morning. Thanks for taking the question.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Good morning, Blake.

BLAKE FERNANDEZ: We've covered CapEx pretty well, so I was just going to see if we maybe could shift it over to divestitures. This may be a better question for the analyst day, but some of your peers in Europe especially have definitely gone into a mode of more aggressively divesting assets, and it seems like Exxon in particular would certainly have quite a host of opportunities there. Are there any thoughts to maybe take advantage of that in the marketplace?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Well, I think the first thought I'd have is we don't ever announce in advance what our divestiture plans are. Over time, we think we get a little better value in the market if we don't announce in advance what it is we're planning to do. And I really can't, again, forecast any particular outlook in terms of the divestiture program. As we've talked about in the past, some of the divestitures you've seen in the last few years have been strategic or initiated from our standpoint, but several of our divestitures have actually been buyers seeking our assets out, because in their portfolio, they viewed them as having more value than we valued them in our portfolio. And so when you have that type of a situation, it's very beneficial to make a transaction. And we're always looking at that and we're always talking to people.

But again, no change in our approach in any of our businesses or across the asset management program in general. You did see us with about, as I recall, $20 billion over the last two years, '11 and '12, in cash flow from asset sales, several billion dollars in earnings. So that program was very successful. This has been a down year so far in that, but again, it's not because we made any strategic decision or decided to change a program, it's just again always optimizing the portfolio and taking advantage of the opportunities that the market presents us.

BLAKE FERNANDEZ: Okay. Fair enough. The second question, David, is on LNG. I didn't see any comments in the slides on where you stand with regard to the LNG export facility in the US. Could you just give us an update there, please?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Yes, there's been no major change. We continue to look at that project and do what we can while we're waiting for approval of our non-free trade agreement permit that is pending with the government, and we're hopeful we'll get that permit approved soon. In the meantime, we continue to look at the project and again, develop what we can pending the permit. So still looks like a very good opportunity for the Company and certainly a good opportunity for the economy and trade, and we're anxious to get after that project as soon as possible.

BLAKE FERNANDEZ: Good deal. Thanks a lot.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Thank you.

OPERATOR: We'll move now to Jason Gammel with Macquarie.

JASON GAMMEL, ANALYST, MACQUARIE RESEARCH EQUITIES: Hello, David.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Hello, Jason. How are you?

JASON GAMMEL: Good, thank you. I just wanted to ask a few questions. Thank you for the detail, first of all, on the project schedule. But we always want more than you give us. I guess we just have a healthy appetite. I was hoping that you might be able to first of all discuss any commercial arrangements for the natural gas at Sakhalin, given the expansions that you're going through there. And then also just within the gas business, if you could talk about the potential for Train 3 at PNG and what the process will be leading up to that decision. And then finally, there has been a little more discussion on the monetization of Alaskan natural gas. Can you talk about maybe what your intents would be on the Point Thompson lease?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Sure, Jason. You've kind of hit a big piece of our opportunity set out there, and it is pretty broad. We have a lot of opportunities in a number of places around the world. If I take them in order, while I can't ever discuss commercial arrangements or commercial negotiations that might be ongoing in the business, I will say as we look at Sakhalin gas and the gas resources that we have there, we are looking at a potential LNG facility with Rosneft on Sakhalin Island. We're looking at some locations under consideration and progressing the evaluation of that project and working on it pretty steadily here. So that's one opportunity that's certainly is out there. We have a very nice gas resource in the area, and finding a way to monetize that would continue to make what's already a very attractive project even more so. So we're looking forward to working on that.

If we flip over to the Papua New Guinea plant, as I mentioned, that project is coming along very well. We're very pleased with the progress, heading towards a start-up next year. We are and continue to look at the potential for adding a third train. We have space to do that there, a lot of opportunities. One, of course, is the discussions that are ongoing with Inner Oil. I know it was in the press recently that our exclusivity period had ended and that was correct, but we are still discussing, we still have negotiations ongoing, and we'll just have to see how that bears out. We also, in the area, have a pretty good opportunity set in terms of exploration. And we have had some success there recently and we continue to evaluate that opportunity. So that's still a possibility. And of course, adding a train to an existing site is usually a pretty robust investment opportunity, so we'll continue to pursue that.

When we look at the potential of LNG exports out of Alaska, we did complete, in the third quarter, our summer field surveys on the northern portion of the proposed pipeline route which, of course, is the first fieldwork required for permitting. So we did a lot of work during the summer to analyze, in particularly, environmental conditions, among other items. So we continue to progress that on the project side. That would be a very, very large project of literally unprecedented scale and complexity. So it's going to be very important to have a good sound fiscal and stable fiscal regime there. And that will be one of the items necessary, of course, to continue to progress that project. But it does move along. The Point Thompson project is also moving along, so that opportunity is still there.

I think what's really interesting, if you take a step back and look at some of the questions we've had today on LNG, you really get a sense for the really rich opportunity set we have around the world for potential monetization of our gas resources, particularly via LNG, mentioned the Sakhalin project. We've had great exploration success so far in Tanzania. We have the Gulf Coast project that we're anxious to progress. We continue to evaluate the potential for LNG exports out of British Columbia, and then we mentioned Alaska and we have other opportunities. So it's nice to have a real rich opportunity set that's geographically diverse, and we are spending, as you would expect, a lot of time working on all of those and looking at which ones are ready, in what order, to bring forward for commercialization. But it's great to have that portfolio and the ability to take a nice long-term view of monetizing those natural gas resources we have around the world.

JASON GAMMEL: Thanks for that very thorough answer, David. Maybe just a very quick follow-up is, in the [Yang field] still a possibility for underpinning a train 3 at PNG?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: That's one nice discovery that we've had. I wouldn't want to take it any further than that, other than it is one of many opportunities that we have in the area, and we're still evaluating that, to answer the question that you've asked, while we consider other exploration potential in the area. I think the good news is the base project is doing well, opportunities for expansion exist, and we have a couple of different opportunities we can pursue to affect that expansion in due course. So more to come on Papua New Guinea in the future.

JASON GAMMEL: Great. Thanks, David.

OPERATOR: We'll move now to Asit Sen with Cowen and Company.

ASIT SEN, ANALYST, COWEN AND COMPANY: Good morning, David.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Good morning. How are you doing?

ASIT SEN: Good. Good. Two quick questions. First on just falling back on the PNG/LNG project, looks like the timeline has improved just slightly. Could you talk about the critical steps ahead before the first LNG sales take place next year? You mentioned that you're start commissioning the LNG plan. How long does that take and what's the drilling program look like?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Sure. It's a little early to talk about a different start-up timeline, other than to say we're still looking at the second half of next year. A lot to do, we're very far along. I did mention we've started some commissioning, feeding some gas into the plant for testing and making sure things are working. It's a very complex project, not just down at the LNG plant side, but up in the highlands. So there's still a lot of kit to put together and test. But again, all of that is ongoing. We are finishing up the pipeline. Drilling is continuing. We've had success and things are going well, as we did the initial drill pad and move over to the second one. So I think as the months go by, we'll be able to give a little better update on the exact timing. But for now, I would say everything is certainly on schedule and going per the plan.

ASIT SEN: Thanks. And a quick unrelated follow-up is on US Chemicals, looks like very nice numbers. What percent of your US business is specialty versus commodity? Could you provide any guidance on that?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Yes. If we're looking at the split in the US on commodities versus specialties, we're a little higher, obviously, on the commodity side because of our big steam cracking operations. But the specialty business, again, as well. But without giving a specific number in the US alone, we're more heavily weighted to the commodity side of the business than the specialty.

ASIT SEN: Thanks.

OPERATOR: We'll move now to Faisel Khan with Citi.

FAISEL KHAN, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Good morning, David.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Good morning, Faisel. How are you?

FAISEL KHAN: All right. How you doing?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: I'm great. Thank you.

FAISEL KHAN: Okay. Thank you. I appreciate the detail on the unconventional resources in the US and production, but could you give me a little bit more color if I look at the total liquids production in the US of roughly 423,000 barrels a day, how much of that is really coming from shale oil and shale liquids? It sounds like your Permian production is mostly geared towards conventional and CO2 floodings, so it's not really at that level where you're producing anything from shale oil or tight oil.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: That's -- Faisel, I don't have a specific breakdown just in the US on conventional versus unconventional. Certainly, as you've said, in the Permian, the big uptick we've seen recently has been on the conventional side, with a lot of work going on in the unconventional. And so whereas if you look at the absolute production levels, more of it's coming from conventional than unconventional. But certainly as we go forward, the conventional will continue to decline. And even though I mentioned some of the steps we're taking to stem that, we do see decline in Alaska, et cetera.

But the real key for the US is we are just really getting started on the unconventional side. And as I've mentioned before, we've spent a lot of time in the last couple of years evaluating what we've had, doing a lot of testing, a lot of technology work, a lot of research work. And that's why I pointed out now you're really starting to see wells coming on, not for evaluation and delineation, but to sell, so we can start ringing the cash register from these investments. And you're starting to see that uptick. So although the absolute split, you haven't really seen a huge change there, the growth is coming along as we expected and we're very pleased with the progress. But I have to say, it's not just the unconventional. We're happy with what we got going on in the Permian and some other areas to stem decline, base decline, and do some things that grow those very profitable barrels for us.

FAISEL KHAN: Okay. And David, along those same lines then, if you're starting to scratch the surface now and finally monetize all of this acreage that you've accumulated over the last few years, or several years, I should say, what's your -- in terms of your total rig count in the US, what is it and how much of it is dedicated to the oil and liquids?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: I think our current rig count is just over 40 rigs. I think we averaged about 45 in the quarter, and I think we're currently at about 41. In terms of where those rigs are drilling, just about all of them are drilling liquids areas. We have very, very few gas rigs running, only where we have an opportunity for a nice return on them. But if you think about our three core areas, the Bakken and the Ardmore and the Permian, those are where the wells are drilling. That's where we're seeing not only the increase in production, but very pleased with the progress we're making on operating expense reduction, productivity of the wells, CapEx efficiency. And all of that, as you know, has helped on unit profitability in the portfolio, as well as cash flow generation. So if you think about those three core areas, you're really are starting to see the benefit of the time we spent evaluating those areas, understanding what we had, quietly adding acreage to our positions, which are now quite large in all of those areas. So business is doing well and certainly a potential growth area for us that we're exploiting in due course.

FAISEL KHAN: And last question from me, David. On the Bakken, if you could just give us what your average well costs have been over the last quarter, just so that we can compare these efficiency gains you're talking about versus what we're seeing in some of your other peers and competitors in the Basin.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: I understand the question. I really don't want to give out per well cost, for a number of reasons. One, for competitive purposes; but also any particular point in time what a well cost is isn't near as important as what we're doing over the longer term period. We did share some of that with you at the analyst meeting last year. We'll share more at the upcoming analyst meeting as we talk about, again, these productivity gains, both from technology and approach and some of the improvements we've seen there. So without giving a specific number, I can tell you that we are meeting or exceeding the expectations we had in this area when we acquired XTO and have added on to all of these properties, consolidated our acreage position, and now, as I've said, really ramped up the activity there.

FAISEL KHAN: Great. Thanks for the time. Appreciate it.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Thank you.

OPERATOR: We'll move now to Roger Reed with Wells Fargo.

ROGER REED, ANALYST, WELLS FARGO SECURITIES: Hello. Good morning.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Good morning, Roger.

ROGER REED: I guess a lot of stuff has been already asked and answered, but I just was wanting to check on a couple of things. Number one, as a follow-up to the last question on gas production or production in the US, and I guess specifically gas production. We've seen the expected slowing in the rate of decline. It doesn't sound like much of that would have been due, at this point, to ramped up associated gas from some of the shale plays. So is this just a function of the decline rates are finally slowing enough and this will help the overall expectation of production growth in '14 and '15, because you no longer have this drag, or is there something else going on here?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: I'd say things are going exactly as we had anticipated. If you look at where we are, just for example, year-over-year in US gas, we're down about 4% in the third quarter, and that's in line with the full year look that we had in March. So if I look across the year, things are going just as we had expected. You do see the impact of associated gasses in there and it does offset some of the decline, but nothing going on any different than what we expected coming into the year. And again, consistent with that full year outlook that we gave everyone in March. So again, liquids up, US gas down, have seen a benefit, as I mentioned, over the year in some European gas on demand, but things going pretty much as we anticipated.

ROGER REED: Okay. Thanks. And the follow-up question, recently the exploration expense had been moving higher, and I know you can't predict when you'll drill a dry hole and when you'll drill a successful well, but I was wondering, does that indicate a generally higher exploration spend overall as we're looking out?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: No, I think if you look at total exploration expense from a programmatic standpoint over the years, I wouldn't give any indication that it's any different than what we had talked about in March. What you do see is lumpiness in the actual book exploration expense. We did have about $100 million higher exploration expense this quarter than we had the quarter before. And as you mentioned, it's just the timing of expensing the dry holes. And that's what we saw in the third quarter.

ROGER REED: Okay. Thank you.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: All right. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from John Herrlin with Societe Generale Investment.

JOHN HERRLIN, ANALYST, SOCIETE GENERALE: Yes. Hello, Dave. Some quick unconventional questions. With [Avaca Muerta], you're going to drill four wells. Are you going to spud them more or less sequentially and then frac them to see what you have?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Yes, we'll do those sequentially. We've got a number of wells that we've drilled in the past couple of years and they continue to be on test. We are starting our operated program. And yes, we will drill those sequentially and then frac them, as you mentioned.

JOHN HERRLIN: And then regarding your operator program, you don't have the same type of expenditure commitments, correct, as one of your West Coast peers?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: When we look across our acreage, no, we don't. I wouldn't comment on other folks, but certainly when we look at our 800,000 acres that we have down there, no, we do not have any significant committed expenditures. We are continuing on the program of evaluating in due course, but we have a lot of flexibility in both the pace and size of that program.

JOHN HERRLIN: Okay. And last one for me, on the Permian you added eight drilling rigs. How much would be for conventional activities, how much unconventional? And that's it. Thank you.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Oh, I don't have an exact split, but I would tell you generally more are doing conventional than are doing unconventional.

JOHN HERRLIN: Okay. Great. Thank you.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Allen Good with Morningstar.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Good morning, Allen.

ALLEN GOOD, ANALYST, MORNINGSTAR: Good morning David. Just a few quick ones. First of all, on the Kearl volumes, can you give a split between the amount, or even the percentage, that were run through Exxon refineries versus third party? And long term, is there a target as far as respect to integration with your downstream there where a certain amount of Kearl you'd like to run through your own facilities?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Sure, I'll start with the first part. Without an exact barrel split, the vast majority that we ran in the third quarter we ran in our own refineries. Most of that went to our Joliet refinery in the Mid Con area. We did also get some down into the Gulf Coast and run at Baton Rouge, and we ran some in Sarney in Canada. So a pretty good disbursion there. And as I mentioned in my prepared remarks, all of the refineries experienced exactly what we were expecting them to running that product. So again, a good demonstration of the technology.

Going forward, we will continue to expand the disposition of this crude in our other refineries. We'll probably run some more down to Gulf Coast into Bay Town and then into our other Midwest refineries up in the Midwest, et cetera. in terms of third party, we expect to expand that a little bit. I wouldn't mention the specific customers or give a target rate, other than one of the things that's really nice is we have the capability to take all of the crude into our refining circuit. We have the pipelines in place to do so. But because of our integrated businesses and our unique supply opportunities and coordination, we can place those barrels in third party refineries where we actually get more value overall by doing that and substituting other crudes into our refineries. And so no target in any particular disposition, just optimizing the value upgrade of those molecules across our circuit.

ALLEN GOOD: Okay. Great. Thanks. And then regarding some of your comments on the unconventional here in the US and saying we're just in the beginning phases of it, this seems to imply that you will see increased capital moving into the US, or lower 48, to exploit some of those opportunities. Is that assumption one, correct; and two, is that largely already built into some of the CapEx guidance that was given earlier this year?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: I think if I take your second part of that question, all of that is built into the guidance that we've given you. We are seeing a little better volumes than we had expected coming in, which is good. But I wouldn't have any specific guidance on lower 48 versus non-US or in one particular type of resource development or the other, other than to say we will direct CapEx to the areas where we get the most up lift, but don't have an outlook any different than what we've talked about in the last analysts' meeting.

ALLEN GOOD: Okay. Thanks. Just one more quick one and this is maybe more of an analyst day question. But earlier this year regarding unit profitability, there was obviously a variety of concerns in things that contributed to maybe the lower earnings per barrel over the past couple years. I think one of those was unattractive commercial terms and physical terms in some areas. Has there been any progress, and surely you can't mention specifics, so if you can I'll take them. But has there been any progress with respect to some commercial terms that may result in lower profitability per barrel with respect to Exxon and renegotiating terms, or even maybe even trying to progress in those assets and divest them longer term, or is that still sort of an issue that maybe has to be worked out over the longer term?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: I'd say if I wrap up each of those questions, one, it probably is a good question for the next analyst day and we'll look forward to talking about that a little more. Having said that, I will say we have progressed a number of initiatives across the year. I don't want to mention anything specifically, but we have undertaken initiatives in a number of areas to improve unit profitability. And to the extent we can be more specific at the next analysts' meeting, we'll do so. but I do want to confirm that we are doing what we said we would do and we are making progress in that regard.

ALLEN GOOD: Okay. Great. Thanks.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Thank you.

OPERATOR: We'll move now to Pavel Molchanov with Raymond James.

PAVEL MOLCHANOV, ANALYST, RAYMOND JAMES & ASSOCIATES: Thanks for taking the question. In your US downstream segment, can you talk about the impact, either in Q3 or year-to-date, of having to purchase RINs?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Yes, if you step back and take a look at the RIN situation, it's not a huge impact on us. We do generate the majority of our RINs by doing our own blending directly. So there's some minor impact, but not a lot financially and certainly nothing material in our results. I think the more important thing in the whole discussion of the RINs is the issue of the blend wall and the industry hitting that blend wall next year, and then some of the things that could be done to alleviate that. And we are certainly supportive of those. But if you're looking in just in our third quarter results or year-to-date, the net impact of the RINs is nothing that would show up as a material impact for us.

PAVEL MOLCHANOV: Okay. Appreciate it. And then just quickly, a lot of news flow recently -- mostly bad, frankly -- from various shale gas opportunities in Europe, protests, political controversy, et cetera. You obviously have acreage in a lot of those countries. Any comments on where you stand in the places where you still have acreage?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: I think if you look at Europe, probably our biggest opportunity is in Germany, where we do have about 4 million acres of prospective unconventional resource opportunity. We continue to talk with the regulators and authorities in Germany about that opportunity and the prospectivity of it, and looking for an opportunity to work on that and pilot some of that to see what we have. But it's all about working closely with the communities, with the regulators, with the policy makers, so that we can all understand what the potential opportunities are and balance those against the concerns. So outside of Germany, I probably wouldn't comment on any of the other European countries, but it certainly is an opportunity for us and potentially an opportunity for the country and one that we will continue to have dialogue on.

PAVEL MOLCHANOV: All right. Appreciate it.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Thank you.

OPERATOR: We'll move now to Kate Minyard with JP Morgan.

KATE MINYARD, ANALYST, JPMORGAN SECURITIES INC.: Hello, David. Thanks very much for taking my question.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Hello, Kate.

KATE MINYARD: Just very quickly on going back to your answers on the Kearl project, you talked about having the ability to take all the volumes within the Exxon and Imperial system, and you mentioned pipelines. Are all the volumes moving via pipeline or are you moving any volumes by rail?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: No, all of the volumes coming out of the initial development are moving by pipeline.

KATE MINYARD: Okay. And do you see the ability to accommodate -- at what point do you need to start moving via a mechanism other than pipelines, or can you fully accommodate the expansion phases, too, and also any potential development to further expansion at Cold Lake and then also any potential future development of [Klidon]?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: First, we'll talk about the Kearl expansion project. And as we look towards 2015 and bringing that online, we are looking at a number of logistical opportunities that we have, including pipeline routes and certainly Keystone XL would be there for the industry in general. But as would be prudent, we are looking at other options, including evaluating a project to build a rail terminal in Edmonton and then move some of that crude out of there into the lower 48 by rail. And we are in the process of evaluating that opportunity and we'll have more to say on that in the future. But certainly, as the Kearl expansion project comes on -- I mentioned the [Nabeye] project in Cold Lake, a lot of volumes to find a disposition for. And again, as I think I mentioned earlier, we're very fortunate in that we have a very good logistics optimization opportunity and network and a lot of avenues for us. But we are actively working on all of the alternatives that are available to us to move that crude into market and get the maximum value for those molecules.

In regards to [Klidon], as I mentioned in my prepared remarks, a very nice resource opportunity for us. It does set near an in situ opportunity Imperial already had, so we're working together to take a look at all of that. I don't have an update for you in terms of project timing or any of that just yet, but we are evaluating that and looking at what we might want to do in terms of development plans and timing. So more to come on that later.

KATE MINYARD: Okay. Thank you. And then just switching a little bit over to West Africa. Can we get a status update on the deepwater satellites in Angola, timing and specifically whether you're actively drilling there right now, whether you have a rig engaged?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: If we look at the satellite projects, both in Nigeria and Angola, I'll start with Nigeria first. That project is on and ramping. The Angola satellites project, also progressing per the plan. I can't give you a specific answer in terms of a drill rig running or any of that sort of thing. But I would say, as we look at the satellite opportunities, again, to tie into existing facilities, those investments and projects are quite attractive and they are coming along and ramping up as planned.

KATE MINYARD: All right. Thanks very much, David.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Kate.

OPERATOR: And we'll move to Paul Cheng with Barclays.

PAUL CHENG, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Hello, guys.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Hello, Paul. How are you today?

PAUL CHENG: Very good. Just one very quick one. Qatar, I think several years ago, Rosgas, your joint venture between you and Qatar Petroleum, did have a born offering and they had their prospectus in there seems to suggest that the local tax holiday for the Rosgas 6 and 7 will be expiring probably in 2014-2015. Can you give us some idea that, if indeed that that's the case, what is the financial impact both in earning and cash flow may look like?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Yes, Paul. If we look at Qatar, all the various trains that we have on that have come on over the years, they have their unique fiscal terms. And I wouldn't comment specifically on any of the terms on any of the trains, other than to say, as we move out into the future, there's nothing material in terms of our results, no significant impact that we would see. But in terms of talking about the specific terms of those contracts, it just wouldn't be appropriate for me to comment on them.

PAUL CHENG: Okay. A final one, on Alaska. I think both your partner, Conoco and BP in the North slope, that indicate with the tax law change they're going to increase their spending there. Are you guys also aligned with them that you're going to increase your spending in Alaska?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: I think there are a number of opportunities for us in Alaska, but I wouldn't comment specifically on any specific plan to ramp up CapEx or to progress anything any faster than what we already have in the plan. But of course, any time the fiscals improve, projects on the margin, by definition, become attractive, or more attractive, and get reevaluated. But other than that, I really wouldn't have a specific comment relative to Alaska.

PAUL CHENG: All right. Thank you.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: We have no further questions in queue, so I'd like to turn the call back over to Mr. Rosenthal for any additional or closing remarks.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: I'd just like to close by thanking everybody for your time and your questions today. Excellent questions. And I appreciate it, and look forward to visiting with you again after the year-end results are in. So thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Once again, ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude today's conference. Thank you for your participation.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
exxn : Exxon Mobil Corporation
   IN
i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1300003 : Crude Petroleum Extraction | iextra : Natural Gas/Oil Extraction
   NS
c151 : Earnings | c184 : Joint Ventures | nitv : Interviews | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Performance | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020131102e9av001iz
  


 HD
 Q2  2013  Exxon  Mobil Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
11,156 words
   PD
1 August 2013
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©013 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day, everyone, and welcome to this ExxonMobil Corporation second-quarter 2013 earnings conference call. Today's call is being recorded. And at this time for opening remarks, I would like to turn the call over to the Vice President of Investor Relations and Secretary, Mr. David Rosenthal. Please go ahead, sir.

   TD
DAVID ROSENTHAL, VP IR & SECRETARY, EXXON MOBIL CORP: Good morning and welcome to ExxonMobil's second quarter earnings call and webcast. The focus of this call is ExxonMobil's financial and operating results for the second quarter of 2013. I will refer to the slides that are available through the Investor Section of our website. Before we go further, I would like to draw your attention to our cautionary statements, shown on slide 2.

Moving to slide 3, we provide an overview of some of the external factors impacting are results. Global economic growth remained constrained in the second quarter. The US economy continues to be sluggish after first quarter GDP growth was revised downward. China's economic growth continues to lag expectations while European economies remain weak. Energy markets delivered mixed results in the second quarter. The quarterly average Brent crude oil price declined more than $10 per barrel from the first quarter, narrowing the spread with WTI, while US natural gas prices increased. Global industry refining margins were essentially flat with increases in the US margins offset by weakness in Europe and Asia-Pacific. Chemical commodity product margins declined across the quarter.

Turning now to the second quarter financial results as shown on slide 4. ExxonMobil's second quarter 2013 earnings were $6.9 billion, a decrease of $9.1 billion from the second quarter of 2012, mainly reflecting the absence of prior year gains associated with the Japan restructuring and divestments. Earnings per share were $1.55. The corporation distributed $6.8 billion to shareholders in the second quarter through dividends and share purchases to reduce shares outstanding. Of that total, $4 billion was used to purchase shares. CapEx in the second quarter was $10.2 billion and $22 billion for the first six months of 2013, in-line with anticipated spending plans. Cash flow from operations in assets sales with $8 billion. At the end of the second quarter, call cash totaled $5 billion and debt was $19.4 billion.

The next slide provides additional detail on second quarter sources and uses of funds. Over the quarter cash decreased from $6.6 billion to $5 billion. Earnings, depreciation expense, changes in working capital and other items, including equity Company dividends and our ongoing asset management program, yielded $8 million of cash flow from operations and asset sales. Uses included additions to plant property and equipment of $8.7 billion and shareholder distributions of $6.8 billion. Additional financing and investing activities increased cash by $5.9 billion. Share purchases to reduce shares outstanding are expected to be $3 billion in the third quarter.

Moving on to slide 6 and a review of our segmented results. ExxonMobil's second quarter 2013 earnings of $6.9 billion decreased $9.1 billion from the second quarter of 2012, reflecting the absence of prior years gain associated with the Japan restructuring and divestments. In the sequential quarter comparison, shown on slide 7, earnings decreased by about $2.6 billion across all segments. Guidance for corporate and financing expenses remains at $500 million to $700 million per quarter.

Turning now to the Upstream financial and operating results and starting on slide 8. Upstream earnings in the second quarter were $6.3 billion, down $2.1 billion from the second quarter of 2012. Higher natural gas realizations, mainly in the US, partly offset by lower crude oil realizations, increased earnings by $90 million. Worldwide natural gas realizations increased $1 per 1,000 cubic feet while crude oil realizations declined $4 per barrel. Production volume in mix effects had a small negative impact of $70 million. All other items, mainly the absence of gains on prior-year asset sales and a reimbursement of past exploratory cost to Rosneft for the Black Sea and Kara Sea joint ventures, decreased earnings by about $2.1 billion. Upstream after-tax earnings per barrel for the second quarter of 2013 were $17.

Moving to slide 9. Volumes decline by 78,000 oil equivalent barrels per day, or 1.9%, from the second quarter of last year. Liquids production was down 26,000 barrels per day as field decline and divestments were mostly offset by increased production from liquids-rich plays in the US, project ramp ups and lower downtime. Natural gas production was down 307 million cubic feet per day as field decline, mainly in the US, and lower entitlement volumes were partly offset by higher European demand, lower downtime in several countries, including Qatar, and project ramp ups. Note that entitlement impacts were all price and spend related.

Turning now to the sequential comparison and starting on slide 10. Upstream earnings decreased by $732 million versus the first quarter of 2013. Realizations reduced earnings by about $360 million as worldwide crude oil and natural gas realizations decreased by $5.84 per barrel and $0.56 per 1,000 cubic, respectively. Volume and mix effects decreased earnings by about $300 million, mainly due to lower European seasonal gas demand. Other items had a small net negative impact of about $70 million as the higher cost in Russia, mentioned in the quarter-on-quarter comparison, were mostly offset by several small positive items.

Moving on to slide 11. Oil equivalent volumes were down about 7% sequentially. Liquids production was essentially flat compared to the first quarter. Higher planned downtime and field decline were mostly offset by improved reliability and project ramp-ups. Natural gas production was down 1.8 million cubic feet per day versus the last quarter mainly due to lower seasonal demand in Europe. Our year-to-date volume performance is in-line with the projection presented at the Analyst Meeting in March with strong uptime performance, increased North America unconventional liquids production and higher European gas demand, offsetting the slower than anticipated ramp-up of Kearl. We remain on target to meet the 2013 volume outlook presented at the Analyst Meetings.

Moving now to the Downstream financial and operating results and starting on slide 12. Downstream earnings for the quarter were $396 million, down $6.3 billion from the second quarter of 2012, due primarily to the absence of the $5.3 billion gain associated with the Japan restructuring. In addition, lower refining margins reduced earnings by $510 million. Volume and mix effects decreased earnings by $370 million, reflecting significant planned refinery maintenance activity across all regions.

Turning to slide 13. Sequentially, second quarter Downstream earnings declined by almost $1.2 billion. Lower overall refining margins, including unfavorable price timing effects in the US, decreased earnings by $170 million. Volume and mix effects decreased earnings by $540 million reflecting significant planned refinery maintenance activities at Joliet and Torrance in the US, and Strathcona, Saudi Arabia, Augusta and Singapore outside of the US. This was the highest quarterly planned maintenance activity over the past five years. Other items reduced earnings by $440 million, primarily due to the absence of first quarter asset sale gains and costs associated with the Dartmouth refinery conversion.

Moving now to the Chemical financial and operating results starting on slide 14. Second quarter Chemical earnings were $756 million, down $693 million versus the second quarter of 2012. Lower specialty product margins reduced earnings by $100 million. Higher commodity product volumes, driven by strong polyethylene demand, increased earnings by $120 million. The absence of the gain associated with the Japan restructuring decreased earnings by $630 million while all other items decreased earnings an additional $80 million.

Moving to slide 15. Sequentially, second quarter Chemical earnings decreased by $381 million. Lower margins, mainly due to weaker aromatics prices, reduced earnings by $200 million while an improved sales mix provided a $30 million offset. Higher planned maintenance, expenses associated with Singapore's new steam cracker start-up and the absence of gains from prior quarter asset sales decreased earnings by $210 million.

Moving next to the second quarter business highlights beginning on slide 16. We continue to advance our portfolio of high-quality Upstream projects, which we expect will deliver the liquids growth presented at the Analyst Meeting in March. The Kearl Oil Sands development continues to produce pipeline-quality crude. We continue to ramp-up production having now run two of the three froth treatment trains individually, as well as concurrently, and achieved rates of 35,000 barrels per day through each.

The third train is ready for initial operation and its start-up will enable production to increase to 110,000 barrels per day in the coming months. The Kearl expansion project is on budget, ahead of plan and now over 40% complete. We are using existing Kearl initial development contractors for efficiency and continuity and achieving higher productivity as a result. The expansion project is scheduled for start-up in 2015.

The Julia initial development project was sanctioned during the second quarter and is expected to develop more than 190 million gross barrels of oil with start-up in 2016. The initial development phase is being designed for daily production of 34,000 gross barrels of oil and includes six wells with subsea tie-backs to the Jack & Saint Malo production facility. Front-end engineering design has been completed and the engineering, procurement and construction contracts have been awarded. The field is estimated to have nearly 6 billion barrels of resource in place.

Hebron construction activities continue with commencement of concrete pours for the gravity based structure as well as fabrication of the living quarters and drilling support module. Oil recovery from the project is estimated at 700 million gross barrels with upside potential. The platform is designed for production of 150,000 barrels of oil per day. First oil is anticipated around the end of 2017.

Turning now to slide 17 and an update on our efforts to progress global LNG projects and opportunities. The map to the left of the chart provides an overview of our LNG business, displaying gross existing production capacity of 64 MTA, sites currently under construction and a number of future opportunities being evaluated. The PNG LNG project construction is currently 88% complete and is achieving project milestones towards a 2014 start-up. Commissioning activities for the first train at the LNG plant are ongoing while construction activities for the second train continues. Progress also continues at the Hides Gas Conditioning Plant where equipment, including gas turbine generators and utility systems, is being received and installed.

We are also advancing expansion opportunities, including negotiations with InterOil Corporation and Pacific LNG, on the future develop of the Elk/Antelope resource. Major terms have already been agreed and, should negotiations successfully conclude, ExxonMobil is proposing that 4.6 Tcf of the gas resource for the Elk/Antelope field be used to underpin the construction of an additional train at the PNG LNG project site, subject to partner and government agreement. Construction at Gorgon is now 65% complete. Installation of the first subsea trees at Jansz has commenced and offshore pipeline installation is ongoing.

Moving out of North America. Golden Pass Products, our venture with Qatar Petroleum International, recently initiated the FERC pre-filing process setting the stage for essential permitting activity associated with the design, environment and construction of a proposed project to produce and export up to 15.6 MTA of LNG. Golden Pass Products already has an export license for free trade agreement countries and awaits approval of its non free trade agreement license from the Department of Energy. ExxonMobil and Qatar Petroleum International also signed a commercial framework agreement in the second quarter, which demonstrates the projects readiness to succeed based on it's technical, financial and marketing capabilities.

In Western Canada, ExxonMobil and Imperial Oil recently filed an application with the National Energy Board for a LNG export license to support the further assessment of the potential development of a natural gas liquefaction terminal on the northwest coast of British Columbia. The export license requested is for up to 30 MTA for a period of 25 years. If developed, the natural gas liquefaction plant, LNG storage and marine loading facilities are anticipated to be in the vicinity of either the Kitimat or Prince Rupert areas. We also continue to assess other LNG opportunities in Alaska, Australia, Russia and Tanzania. A range of factors will be considered before any final investment decision is made, in particular, the fiscal and regulatory regime, market conditions and capital costs.

Turning now to slide 18 and an update on our exploration activities. In June, Rosneft and ExxonMobil announced the completion of several milestones under the 2011 Strategic Cooperation Agreement including joint venture formation for the Kara Sea and Black Sea projects. Collection of seismic data within both regions is underway and drilling operations are set to begin in 2014.

As we announced previously, ExxonMobil and Rosneft agreed to increase the scope of their strategic cooperation by adding seven new blocks in the Russian Arctic, spanning approximately 150 million acres. We have now entered into more definitive foundation agreements for joint ventures to explore within these areas. Foundation agreements are also now in place for joint venture tight oil project in West Siberia where data-gathering is underway in preparation for drilling. Rosneft holds a 51% interest and ExxonMobil has a 49% interest in this project.

Turning to Romania. ExxonMobil and OMV Petrom have successfully completed acquisition of the largest ever Black Sea 3D seismic survey on the Neptun deep block covering more than 2,300 square miles. This survey will be used to continue the evaluation of the Domino discovery as well as to evaluate additional exploration potential on the block. In the Gulf of Mexico we recently spud the Maui deep water prospect on Walker Ridge block 282 after acquiring a 33% interest in the prospect during the first quarter.

Turning now to slide 19 and an update on our unconventional liquids activities. In the Bakken play our gross operated production recently hit its highest level ever, surpassing 60,000 oil equivalent barrels per day. For the quarter, equivalent production increased by 74% over the prior-year quarter. This strong growth reflects higher per-well production rates due to optimized drilling and completion practices and the shift to more pad development. For example, after rising 20% in 2012, peak 30-day flow rates have increased another 15% in 2013.

We have also commenced evaluation of multiple benches in the Three Forks Reservoir as part of a larger Bakken project involving XTO and our Upstream Research Company. This initiative has a goal of increasing recovery, identifying further drilling and completion efficiencies, and better defining resource size and distribution across our 580,000 net acres of lease hold.

In June of 2013 we started operations at a new cryogenic gas processing plant in Southwestern Pennsylvania. Located in Butler County, this 340 acre facility will recover marketable liquids from Marcellus gas production. Two gas compressor stations feed the facility, which is designed to treat approximately 125 million cubic feet per day of natural gas. More than 45 wells our expected to be contributing to production process at the plant by year-end.

In our Appalachia operations we hold nearly 700,000 prospective net acres across the Marcellus and the Utica shale plays. The liquids-rich Woodford Ardmore shale play in South Central Oklahoma remains our most attractive and active unconventional play with 12 operated rigs. During the quarter we closed on a small bolt-on acquisition adding to our core Ardmore area and increasing our total acreage position to more than 280,000 acres. In the quarter, gross operated production reached 31,000 oil equivalent barrels per day, up 73% over the prior-year quarter.

As noted at our March Analyst Meeting, we are expanding the play into the overlying Caney shale. In the second quarter, three Caney wells we're completed and brought online as we continue to delineate the reservoir across our acreage. Additionally, our first Caney well is being completed in the Marietta area, southwest of the Ardmore basin, where the initial Woodford well in April 2012 had a 30-day peak flow rate of just over 700 barrels per day of oil and 1.4 million cubic feet per day of natural gas.

Turning now to the Downstream and Chemical highlights and starting on slide 20. We recently announced expansions to increase Group II Premium Lube Basestock production capacity at our Baytown and Singapore refineries. These expansion projects build on ExxonMobil's strong manufacturing base at these two world-scale facilities. ExxonMobil is the largest producer of basestocks for use in lubricant manufacturing in the world and these projects will help us strengthen our position as one of the industries leading global suppliers of high quality lube basestocks. These expansions will employ ExxonMobil proprietary technologies and increase production capacity of high-value premium lube basestocks by 30%. Both projects are expected to start-up by early 2015.

Turning now to slide 21 on the Singapore Chemical Plant expansion project. During the quarter, ExxonMobil Chemical began producing ethylene from the facility second world-scale steam cracker, more than doubling steam-cracking capacity at the site and significantly increasing specialties capacity. We are now able to produce ExxonMobil's proprietary specialty elastomers and metallocene-based polyethylene in the Asia-Pacific region. Integrated with the existing petrochemical plant and powered by a 375-megawatt co-generation plant, the new steam cracker is among the most energy-efficient in our portfolio. The Singapore petrochemical plant is well-positioned to serve growth markets in Asia-Pacific while leveraging our feedstock flexibility and dozens of new technologies.

In conclusion, in the second quarter we earned $6.9 billion, generated $8 million in cash flow, invested $10.2 billion in the business and distributed $6.8 billion to our shareholders. We maintain a long-term perspective on our business with a relentless focus on operational excellence and disciplined investing through the business cycle. As discussed in the business highlights, we continue to progress a unique set of profitable growth opportunities, which position us well to deliver long-term shareholder value.

That concludes my prepared remarks. And I would now be happy to take your questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions)

And we'll take the first question from Faisal Khan with Citi. Please go ahead.

FAISAL KHAN, ANALYST, CITI: If you could elaborate a little bit more on the refining downtime. I know you said this was the most downtime you've had in the last five years. But I looked at the last two quarters in a row -- throughput has been relatively lower versus 4Q last year and 3Q last year.

Can you discuss kind of how these plants are coming back online? And how is this going to trend for the rest of the year?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Yes. If you look across the year, the first quarter was also had a high turnaround workload. So as you look at how we're doing this year, the first quarter was high but the second quarter was even higher.

Certainly, if you look prior to this year over the last five years, it was considerably higher than normal. In fact, about 9% of our capacity was off-line for planned maintenance in the quarter and we typically average about 4% to 5%.

FAISAL KHAN: Okay. Then going forward, is this all of these plants back up and running? Are you still having a significant amount of downtime?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: No, this activity is now behind us. And by-and-large, all those units are back online and up and running.

The other thing I will mention, Faisal, is we have a long-standing practice of implementing improvement projects, minor projects, any anytime we have these large facilities down for an extended time. And we have certainly taken advantage of that opportunity and done a few things at each of the sites to further improve the advantages that they have. Joliet would be an example in the mid-con where we have done a few things to help improve our distillate production there. So big downtime, all of it planned, all of it coming back up and we are looking forward to the third quarter and getting these things, again, back up and running and producing product.

FAISAL KHAN: Okay. Last question for me. On US upstream capital expenditures, it look like it picked up fairly significantly from the first quarter of this year to about $2.6 billion.

Can you just tell us what's going on in the US CapEx and how it's going to trend going forward? Are you ramping up your rig program in different areas? Or how's that progressing?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Yes. We did see a little -- if you're looking at a quarter-over-quarter in the US upstream, CapEx was up just a little bit. It wasn't anything in particular I can point to. We are doing -- we have added some rigs, drilling activity is a little higher. And just a number of other spend across the business.

FAISAL KHAN: Okay. Fair enough. I was looking from the first quarter to the second quarter -- it looked like a big ramp-up.

Is that increase rig activity? Or is that -- because I thought you guys were cutting back on CapEx in North America on a rig count -- thought that was one things that came out of the analyst meeting. Maybe I'm wrong.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Yes. I'm sorry, Faisal. If you're looking sequentially, we are up. We had a couple of minor XTO based acquisitions. We added some more acreage in the Woodford that I mentioned and we had a couple of other items.

Additionally, drilling was up quarter-on-quarter consequentially by about $100 million. We did have also a net increase in rig activity by a couple of rigs. So it is continuing the program of ramping up the production capability of the liquids and also taking advantage occasionally when we have an opportunity to bolt on a nice piece of acreage that fits in one of our big areas.

FAISAL KHAN: It make sense. Thanks for the time. I appreciate it.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Ed Westlake with Credit Suisse.

ED WESTLAKE, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Actually a follow on from Faisal's question, good morning. Back in refining and chemicals -- do you think third quarter will be fully clear? Or will you be fully back up in the fourth quarter?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: We'll be -- we always have a little planned maintenance across the quarters. And there will be some. But if you look across our major plants and the bulk of our maintenance and turnaround activity is behind us. But we will always have a little bit.

But particularly, if you're really looking at the second quarter heading into the third quarter and fourth quarter of this year, yes. There will be a much lower rate of maintenance activity.

ED WESTLAKE: And you flagged Singapore start-up cost -- a big plant. Any number that we could think about in terms of the scale of that in the second quarter so that we can model it for the third quarter?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: No. Total OpEx in there was up a little bit. Singapore was an item but it is not real significant in terms of order of magnitude. So as we continue to ramp-up a little bit, you will see a little more there but nothing I can -- would really single out as being material.

ED WESTLAKE: Okay. And then a general question on LNG. Obviously Canada is a big opportunity, Tanzania and Golden Class exports -- do you think we'll be talking about that at the analyst day next year with some granularity? Or do you think it's further off in the future?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: I think, as we typically do at the analyst meeting, we will provide an update on all of those opportunities as they progress. Hopefully by then we can give you a little more granularity in terms of expectations. But a number of things to look at and work on in the meantime.

I think the good news, for us, is we have a number of potentially attractive large-scale opportunities out there. And we are assessing all of them. And we will look forward to talking about it more in March. And of course, in particular here in the US, we are dependent on getting the permits for non-free trade agreement countries to progress that project.

But in the meantime, as I mentioned in my remarks, we are working on other permits. Yes, by the time we get to March we hope to be able to give you a good update on that.

ED WESTLAKE: Thanks so much, David.

OPERATOR: Blake Fernandez with Howard Weil.

BLAKE FERNANDEZ, ANALYST, HOWARD WEIL: Hi, good morning, David. I actually wanted to stick on the Canadian LNG. It sounds like obviously we will get some more detail down the road. But I had a general question for you with regard to the resource potential that you have to feed the facility.

Do you feel that you have adequate resources to feed it? Or would you rely somewhat on third-party gas? Any color there?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Yes. I think in general, we have the resources available to feed that. That doesn't mean that we wouldn't bring in some other.

But if you look across our resource space in Canada, in particular, the acreage that we got with the Celtic acquisition, you look at the Horn River, a number of other properties we have up there, we are pretty well positioned, just internally, to support a major LNG facility. And that is why we are looking at it so hard.

But again, it is one of many projects. But, yes, I think we are in pretty good shape.

BLAKE FERNANDEZ: Okay. That's great. Thanks. My second question is really on US natural gas.

It seems like the decline has slowed a little bit from what we witnessed in previous quarters. And I am just curious if that's a stabilization in activity levels or if some of the ramp-up you talked about with regard to Faisal's question -- if maybe any of that was in the gas windows?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Well we do have, obviously, when we're drilling in these liquid-rich plays, there is some gas, obviously, that comes out from there. And that gets produced. And what you are generally seeing there is kind of the base decline rate that you have, particularly if you're looking sequentially across the quarters in the US being offset by a little higher production.

So it is really just the continuation of the program that we have had in place. It does tend to stabilize. One of the things that is interesting with some of these unconventional -- all of these unconventional wells, particularly on the gas side, is you get all of these tails that stack up and, by in large, that's a mitigating impact by itself. But we are also seeing a very strong performance. I mentioned the Marcellus, in particular, but also in the Haynesville.

So we are tracking right along, in general -- some of the things we talked about at the analyst meeting in terms of well productivity, some of the benefits we're getting from advanced completion technologies. You're really starting to see that come into effect. And in particular, also, on the liquids side whereas we talked about before we spent a lot of time after the XTO acquisition getting the Denbury trade, doing a lot of delineation, a lot of appraisal, working with the research folks on trying to improve our technologies.

And now you are starting to see kind of the fruit of those efforts as we ramp things up -- more pad drilling, et cetera. So we talked about it before and I know you have been waiting to kind of see the results of marrying up that XTO capability with Exxon Mobil's technology and research. And I think we're starting to see that come up and we look forward to continued production increases in those areas.

BLAKE FERNANDEZ: I appreciate the color, David. Thank you.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Robert Kessler with DPH.

ROBERT KESSLER, ANALYST, DPH: Hi, David. A couple of questions, if you don't mind, just to quantify some of the variance figures. One being the Rosneft -- the amount of that reimbursement amount paid to Rosneft for past exploratory costs.

And then the other one, just the quantification of the unfavorable price timing affects in the downstream. I think you said that was part of the $170 million sequential margin variance. But if you could just specify each of those in absolute terms, I'd appreciate it.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Sure. I'd be happy to. The Rosneft reimbursement of past cost was $220 million on an after-tax basis.

And if you look at the total price timing affects for the second quarter of 2013, they were about $166 million in total -- about $150 million of that in the US. If you compare that to the first quarter, we actually had a $32 million positive. So if you are looking quarter-to-quarter sequentially in the US, that was about $183 million negative impact on a sequential basis.

ROBERT KESSLER: Very helpful. Thank you.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: All right. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Doug Leggate with Bank of AmericaMerrill Lynch.

DOUG LEGGATE, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Thank you, good morning, David. David, when we traveled earlier this year you talk about OpEx having a laser focus on efficiency gains, cost improvements and so on. And if we look at the capture rate on your upstream margin this quarter, there really doesn't seem to be a lot of movement.

So I'm wondering if you could share any some of those initiatives on what our expectations should be coming out of that? And I've got a follow-up please.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Sure. I think what I said was a little more broadly. We had a laser focus on unit profitability as we talked about at the analyst meeting where we acknowledge the fallback we had had in upstream unit profitability given the mix of our production since the XTO acquisition. And just reinforcing that we are very aware of this. We are working on it -- some of the portfolio projects that are coming online, and particularly the liquids projects are coming to fruition.

We have talked about the mix impact we're going to have over the next two or three years with all of those liquids and liquids-linked projects come on. So there is not a specific OpEx program or something like that. It is top to bottom. It is production, it's margin capture, it's bringing the projects online, seeing the improvements in the earnings. But also I will say, as we always have -- continued focus on operational excellence and cost-management. So that is ongoing.

But it is not any one particular program. I will say if you take out the Rosneft seismic reimbursement and look at some of our unconventional liquids increases sequentially across the quarter and how things are trending, I think you're going to see that upturn on a price-constant basis here as we go forward.

DOUG LEGGATE: Thank you for that. My follow up, I'm afraid, is the buybacks. I really just wanted to kind of frame this -- like oil prices are obviously a lot stronger both domestic and internationally. You're target and production growth with 90% weighted towards liquids and you've had obviously that big one off working capital shift in the second quarter.

So with that backdrop, I know you don't like to talk about the longer-term outlook for buybacks, but conceptually, why would you be going back on your buyback program, given that backdrop? And what is your tolerance for net debt on the balance sheet? And I will leave it there.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Sure. Let me add a little bit to your backdrop comments because they are all quite valid. Let me add just a little bit of perspective on the buyback.

If you look back over the past two years, so you look at 2011 and 2012, we bought back $20 billion in each of those two years in share buybacks. We also had over that -- so $40 billion, let's call it, for the two years combined. Over that same time period we had about $20 billion in net proceeds from asset sales -- so about $10 billion a year. So if you put those two together and you think about it, we bought back $20 billion a year -- $10 billion of it a source from operating activities and $10 billion source from proceeds from asset sales.

Then if you come into 2013 and look at the first half, we bought about $9 billion of shares back, have less than $1 billion in proceeds from asset sales. So on an equivalent basis, we have already bought back a little over $8 billion in share buybacks excluding the proceeds from asset sales. So if you look at it from that perspective, the buyback actually remains quite strong.

There is nothing magical about the $3 billion number for the third quarter, other than we had just taken a look at -- like we always do -- expected cash flows for the quarter, our needs, cash requirements and that sort of thing, and just came up with the $3 billion number. We are also managing our capital structure this year and keeping that in line with our longer-term objectives but not any more complicated than that. Again, I think sometimes people overlook the fact that that asset management program that we had the last couple of years generated a significant amount of cash for us and we returned all of that to the shareholder, which I thought was very positive.

So I hope that answers your question. If not, I would be happy to talk about it in a little more detail.

DOUG LEGGATE: No, that's great. I will take the rest off-line. Thank you.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Evan Calio with Morgan Stanley.

EVAN CALIO, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Hi. Good afternoon, David. I look forward to the Pointer Sisters next time before the call begins as well.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: I will look into that.

EVAN CALIO: My first question is on PNG. It is clearly a differentiated position for Exxon. I know you discussed your negotiations to acquire additional supply. You picked up some exploration acreage in the quarter.

But could you discuss how additional expansion train economics compare within your portfolio or versus other projects I know you have reviewed globally? And additionally, with train 1 and 2 were -- I think they were five years from FID to expected first gas. I would presume expansion trains could be much faster than that. And based upon the availability of gas, does Exxon envision replicating a cuttery style development here of a train per year type of concept? And I have a follow-up.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Let me kind of start at the back of your question, first. Clearly, as would be true of any project, once you've got all of the facilities in place -- the pipelines, the capacity, the trains, the utilities, all of the common facilities -- any addition is typically going to be quicker and have quite attractive incremental economics.

I would want to give a specific time frame on an additional train at Papua New Guinea, other than to say we have plenty of land space there. We have got plenty of infrastructure. We certainly have the ability to, as rapidly as possible, expand that facility over the course of the next few years.

We do have a number of opportunities for gas. We mentioned the InterOil discussions are going on. We've had some success in exploration regionally in Pinyang South. We have some other exploration opportunities in the area. We are optimistic on that.

In terms of relative economics of Papua New Guinea versus other projects, I would not want to give any specific comparisons or numbers other than to say we do view that project as quite attractive for us. We certainly look forward to bringing forward some expansion opportunities and continuing to improving even further on those economics.

EVAN CALIO: Great. That is helpful. My second question -- if I could follow-up on the buyback. That has gone from 5 to 4 to 3 on a guidance basis.

With limited free cash flow in 3Q, even if we see CapEx flat to down in 2014, we see some continued pressure on that buyback. Really the question is -- to just kind of reiterate Doug's question -- is would you consider using the balance sheet or larger than normal asset sales to support the buyback going forward, which is also historically reported -- supported -- your very high returns?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: One of the things to keep in mind as we go forward, particularly as you look into 2014 and you get kind of the ramp-up in production -- in particularly liquids production -- that we showed you in the analyst meeting. At current prices, you can certainly expect increased cash flow right from operations. I think as that goes up -- and remember, a lot -- most of these assets, these projects that we are bringing on line in the next few years have two things.

One, they are either or oil based or oil linked gas and there are no declining kind of projects. So the CapEx requirements on a maintenance basis will be much lower than your typical oil projects. And then the free cash flow generation out of that and the earnings impact were basically 90% of that incremental type of liquids. You have to keep that in mind.

When you think about -- guess the other one was using the balance sheet to buy shares. We manage the balance sheet really around to the whole capital structure that we want to manage. You've seen some increase in our debt levels here over the year.

You might recall back three years ago after the XTO merger we had about $19 billion of debt on the books. We paid all of that -- most of that off over the ensuing years -- got rid of that high-cost debt. We've replaced that with low-cost commercial paper.

We do continue to manage the balance sheet, manage the capital structure of the firm, but also always maintaining that balance sheet flexibility that we have talked about. So I wouldn't make any specific guidance on use of leverage or the buyback going forward other than to say, we continue to focus on cash flow generation. And returning as much of that cash flow back to the shareholders as possible in the form of both increasing dividends, which we did again this year, and the buybacks.

EVAN CALIO: Okay. That is helpful. One last one if I could. I think I missed it.

On chemicals in the quarter, were their any impacts of outages there, particularly the US? I think volumes were a little bit lower.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Yes. We did have some planned maintenance but it was kind of minimum in terms of the impact in the US. One of the things we did see in the US that was helpful was some increase polyethylene demand and that kind of helped our mix. We did have some downtime in a couple of areas but nothing real significant.

EVAN CALIO: Got it. Appreciate it.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Thank you.

OPERATOR: John Herlan with Societe Generale.

JOHN HERLAN, ANALYST, SOCIETE GENERALE: Yes, hi. Two quick ones, Dave. With respect -- how are you doing? With respect to the Bakken, you said you were going to combine your exploitation of the XTO folks with your technical people. Should we expect to see more of an activity ramp given the potential of the Three Forks in the Williston?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Yes. I think it would be logical to assume over time as we continue to develop that resource, particularly taken this kind of full-field development approach that you'd see us ramp-up activity over time. I have to say, and I kind of alluded to it in our -- in my opening comments, we are really pleased with the progress we are making in the Bakken. Again, it is pad drilling, it's optimized completions, it's changing the way some things are done, incorporating the learnings as we go along.

One of the things we have talked a little bit about is not getting in a hurry. You don't want to drill a bunch of wells and then look back over your shoulder and wish you had not done that quite yet because you have learned a bunch. I think we have a pretty deliberate, disciplined pace of growth in both activity and production. But the gains that we are seeing year-over-year -- we would like to continue and do more and not get too far out in front of that curve.

JOHN HERLAN: Okay. Thanks. Next one from me is on the Tight Oil Pilot Project with Rosneft. How long will you be in the science phase? Next year or so?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: I think with unconventional resources, in general, we're going to be in the science phase for a while. I think if you look at the West Siberia area, tremendous opportunity for that joint venture with us and Rosneft. We are in the process right now of gathering data but testing will begin this year.

That activity will start-up before the end of the year. Depending on how that goes, that will determine the pace heading into next year. But as we've done in all of the other unconventionals, we will be prudent, making sure we know what we have, testing the resource itself, the quality of what we find underground. And then looking for that commerciality determination.

The area has plenty of infrastructure, plenty of support. If we can make it work, we will get after it pretty quick.

JOHN HERLAN: Okay. Last one for me is on Maui. Can you give us any more information on that?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Yes. Maui is drilling ahead. We've not reached target depth yet. So because of that, I really wouldn't want to say much more.

Obviously, in the next quarter, we will have more to say on that. The drilling is going fine as expected. We will look forward to providing a little more update next time.

JOHN HERLAN: All right. Thank you.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: All right. Thank you, John.

OPERATOR: Paul Sankey with Deutsche Bank.

PAUL SANKEY, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Good morning, David. David, we're as focused as you are on this net income per barrel -- marginal barrel profitability. Can we just -- sorry to do this. Can we go back to this Rosneft deal first.

If I look at the earnings year-over-year, the variance in the other categories was $2.07 billion. I think that you said it was $220 million of that was Rosneft. Is that correct?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Yes, that's correct.

PAUL SANKEY: What's the rest? It's a large number.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Yes. It is very simple. All the rest is absent of assets sales from last year.

We had -- we sold our block-31 in Angola. We booked some of the Japan in there. We have some other minor sales. That $2.1 billion -- it's $1.9 billion asset sales and $200 million for the reimbursement of past cost.

PAUL SANKEY: I think, generally speaking, because we are as focused as Rex is on this issue, it's -- the more detail we can get on this sort of noise, better. That would explain why the sequential earnings went down only $17 million in other but would include the $220 million Rosneft, right?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Yes. That's correct.

PAUL SANKEY: Then there's the, obviously -- whatever it was -- $100 million something offset positive?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Yes. Paul, it is a number of small items. Nothing really big to point out. Yes.

I think the important thing there is just what you have noticed. It is pretty clean on the other when you net all the factors in, particularly given that we had a negative $200 million in there for the Rosneft cost.

PAUL SANKEY: Yes, understood. The proceeds from the asset sales -- you also mentioned that you've made a couple of acquisitions. Can we get some more detail on what the scale -- you've got $300 million of proceeds. I guess the acquisitions are in CapEx, right?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Yes. The acquisitions are in CapEx. I think all in -- less than $100 million. It wasn't significant in the quarter. They were some small bolt-ons.

PAUL SANKEY: That was the acquisitions. Was were the sales? Were the sales upstream? Sorry. I missed that.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: The sales that we had -- we had some minor ones in the upstream. Just some minor ones there. Yes, it was just a little bit of stuff there. Again in the -- in that net kind of there wasn't a big deal.

PAUL SANKEY: I think you quite deliberately reiterated your guidance as given at the analyst meeting for -- I think it was for full-year 2013. Is that what you referred to or was there --?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: No, I just wanted to reinforce two things for you. The volume outlook is unchanged and the CapEx outlook also is unchanged.

PAUL SANKEY: Okay. Great. I've got kind of a detailed one, which is unfortunate. But then I think -- if you could extend it into the overall North American picture. Can you update us on the status and future for the Pegasus pipeline? And then can you also talked about how you're going to move crude out of Canada down into your major refining center in the Gulf Coast.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Let me hit the second one first. We have the ability -- if you're really referring to Kearl -- we've got the pipeline capacity in place for the first 110,000 barrels per day to move that either into the US, some of that into Joliet. Or also into our other Canadian refineries.

If you're looking in general, Western Canada crudes down into the Gulf Coast, we have made some other arrangements to offset what was coming down Pegasus. And so that really hasn't had a big impact on us -- on a net basis. If you look at the Pegasus pipeline incident kind of broadly, I will tell you that the cleanup of that is going very well. We have removed all visible freestanding oil from the environment.

Many of the folks that were evacuated from their homes have completed the re-entry process. That is going well.

In terms of starting up that pipeline, I really couldn't give you an estimate on that or an outlook. We still got some more work to do to determine the details of the investigation around that incident and what caused it and that sort of thing. Until we've got that completely nailed down and can think about that over the rest of the line, I just -- I couldn't give you any update of when that will be back in service.

PAUL SANKEY: Okay. It's -- obviously it is out now. I think the interesting thing is, if could say, is that I believe it was built in 1940 -- that pipeline, right?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Yes.

PAUL SANKEY: David, I look forward to seeing you in September. Thanks for your help.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: All right. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Paul Cheng with Barclays.

PAUL CHENG, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Hi, guys. Good morning. Two questions, Dave. In the second quarter, is there any cut off [when someone more] unusual tax adjustment [mode lost] in any of your divisions that we should be aware?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: No, Paul, this is actually a pretty clean quarter along those lines.

PAUL CHENG: Secondly, Dave, I think you had talked about that the success stories you guys had in Woodford and also in some unconventional play like Bakken. Can you give us a rough idea that how much is the total unconventional liquid production today that you are running at net to the Company? And also that within that, what is the rough percentage between the split in oil, condensate and NGL?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Paul, I don't have the breakdown of unconventional liquids relative to conventional. Certainly, what we are seeing -- if you look at how we are doing particularly sequentially in the US where I think our liquids production are basically quarter-over-quarter -- a liquids production flat. What your seeing is unconventional increase in liquids production is offsetting declines. And so you've got your normal decline on the conventional side being offset by the unconventional but I don't have those two numbers broken down.

PAUL CHENG: Is that something that you guys may be willing to share and that we can take if off line if that's the case or you could have someone just send me an e-mail?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Yes. I think those kind of details will probably hold for a broader update at our analyst meeting in March. I think the important thing for us is this ramp up that we are seeing and the year-over-year increase that I mentioned in my prepared remarks.

Again, in particular, the ability to grow these volumes at a lower capital cost as time goes on an a lower OpEx. But I do understand your question and we will look for an opportunity down the road to be a little more specific on that.

PAUL CHENG: And on the conventional liquid at this point, Dave, are you guys the operating cost per unit or per barrel -- are they higher or about the same or lower than you're average performing in the US?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: I don't know that I have that specific number in terms of coming up with a conventional average cost versus an unconventional. Again, Paul, I think the important thing for us is to continue to ramp-down those op costs, ramp-up the well productivity as we depend on those unconventional liquids to offset the decline in the conventional. I don't have a split out in the cost for you along those lines.

Again, as this portfolio goes forward, you will see an increase in amount in the unconventional liquids offsetting and then growing more than the decline on the unconventionals. We will also look for an opportunity at the next analyst meeting to talk about that a little more as these volumes come up.

PAUL CHENG: All right. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Allen Good with Morningstar.

ALLEN GOOD, ANALYST, MORNINGSTAR: Good morning, David. Just a follow-up question on your commentary related to the asset sales supporting share repurchases in the past.

First of all, is there any current marketing of assets now that would be significant enough to potentially support the repurchases later this year and next? And then secondly, on that point, when you evaluate asset sales or the future potential of assets. Do you stack up the returns on those future -- or those assets in the future relative to what you could potentially get on returns of buying your own stock or the valuation of your own stock? So as the repurchase of -- or use the proceeds factors into whether you decide to sell an asset or not?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Let me answer that second one first. Those are two completely separate decisions.

The decision to sell assets is -- sometimes it's strategic like our decision to get out of owned and operated retail stores in the US, which also ties into the other part of assets sales which is they are worth more to somebody than they are to us. And so oftentimes when we look at something that looks like a strategic benefit for us, it turns out that it marries up quite well with an economic advantage for someone else.

When you look across our other assets, either an upstream, downstream or chemicals, it is a very simple analysis. What's this thing worth to us, looking at both upside potential and downside potential, and then how does that compare to the value to a potential purchaser. And when the latter is greater than the former, generally speaking, we will conclude an asset sale.

A lot of those sales are opportunistic where people approach us asking to buy assets. We don't have a program. We don't have a target or an objective. Where they come along and they're attractive, we go ahead and do it.

That kind of leads into -- I really can't comment on future sales because, as I said, so many of those come about because we get approached by people and don't have any way to look at that. But I will say we did see a very successful program over the last couple of years. Again, as I mentioned earlier, that cash flow went directly to our shareholders. What we might do next quarter or the next quarter or next year, I just -- I don't know and couldn't comment on.

ALLEN GOOD: Okay. Thanks.

My third question relates to the factors that you outlined as far as a valuation of relative attractiveness of LNG projects with respect to Australia. And I understand you're going to pursue FLNG down there in the development of Scarborough. Is their anything else besides that potential with respect to regulatory or capital costs in Australia that have maybe abated in the past six months of the year that make that project a bit more attractive than maybe it was a year or two ago relative to the rest of your portfolio?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: We haven't seen a big change in terms of the cost structure. We are evaluating the potential of FLNG at the Scarborough prospect. Those evaluations continue.

Again, I wouldn't want to position that relative to any other project, either already in the portfolio or one that we are looking at. Again, it is nice to have the wide geographic flexibility we have and the opportunity set for LNG. You got a lot of things of play I mentioned -- physical terms and stability, capital cost in particular areas, infrastructure and that sort of thing, as well as the markets that those things would serve.

As we bring along this portfolio and evaluate it, we will be looking at different technologies, FLNG is an example of that -- also different sizes of facilities and different locations and that sort of thing. We will continue to progress that but don't have an outlook for FID and costs on any of those or certainly not relative competitiveness.

ALLEN GOOD: Okay. Thanks. And just one quick one. I'm sorry if I missed it but on Asia gas volumes during the quarter, was there a reason, whether the PFC or turnaround effect for the decline sequentially there?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: If you are looking sequentially, we had some downtime was a big piece of that and then also some price and spend impacts on entitlements in the gas area there. But nothing outside of that unknown there.

ALLEN GOOD: Thank you very much.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: All right. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Pavel Molchanov with Raymond James.

PAVEL MOLCHANOV, ANALYST, RAYMOND JAMES: Thanks for taking my question. First just a quick one on PNG LNG. Any sense of when you're looking to make a decision on project sanction on train 3?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: No. I really don't have an outlook on that. We're still in commercial discussions on the potential for that expansion. Until those are concluded, it could be difficult to give any forward guidance on timing after that other than we're working on it and if those negotiations are successfully concluded. We will be in a better position to talk about the going forward time frame.

PAVEL MOLCHANOV: Okay. And then second one from me, we have seen a number of large western players getting into the Vaca Muerta in Argentine in a pretty big way. Can we just get an update on where things stand with your JV down there with -- I guess it's America's Petrogas?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Sure. I think as you are probably aware, we've got a huge position in the Vaca Muerta. We were kind of an early mover into that area. We have got 11 blocks totaling over 800,000 net acres in the Neuquen basin and of course we're targeting the potential of the Vaca Muerta.

We did have a number of wells that we drilled last year into this year. Some of those are on test and others are being completed and will be tested going forward. We do have a fairly active operated plan for the balance of this year. We will get a few more wells down there over the course of the year.

The real key there is to kind of figure out where the windows are for the liquids versus the gas. Figure out what you've got, how it looks and not drill more wells then you need to to define that resource. So we are pleased.

The early results are encouraging. We continue to progress. Like I mentioned a minute ago, were looking forward to drilling our operated wells the rest of this year and give you a little better update as we progress.

PAVEL MOLCHANOV: All right. Appreciate it very much.

OPERATOR: Iain Reid with Jefferies.

IAIN REID, ANALYST, JEFFERIES & CO.: Hi, David. How are you? Got a few things -- firstly on -- just going back to share buyback.

I'm just wondering when you look at share buybacks as dividends. Do you kind of look at those together because you're ramping down the share buyback at the same time you've increased dividend payments fairly significantly? Do you look at that as a kind of total shareholder return number?

And are you moving, if you like, more towards dividends rather than share buybacks consciously? Or is it more about this disposal in pay you were talking about earlier?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Let me talk about the dividends first. I think the most important thing to think about the dividends is we have a track record and have certainly talked about, on a go-forward basis, the objective of always growing that dividend over time. The rate at which we have grown that dividend over the last several years has varied a little bit. Although if you average it out over the last 5 or 10 years it has been substantial.

We did take a 20% hike in the dividend in 2012 and another 10%, almost 11%, this year. I think as we talked about at the analyst needing, that to -- in response to both desires of our shareholders and also wanting to remain competitive in the marketplace. If you just hold that aside on the dividend then you get to the buyback and the buyback is, of course, driven by cash flow that is available to give back to the shareholder.

And the buybacks give us great flexibility in terms of managing the cash and capital structure. And so I wouldn't combine that with the dividend. They are separate and managed in that manner.

I think as you look back over the last few years at the sheer level of total distributions to the shareholders, they have been quite impressive. Again, we have grown the dividend to meet those needs. And then the rest of the cash has gone back in the form of the buybacks.

IAIN REID: Okay. Second one is I'm a bit curious about this -- what you are talking about in terms of refining capacity being significantly down in the quarter, Because if you look at it on a sequential basis, it is down but not significantly compared to the first quarter. Is there anything else in these refining numbers which could explain the really week performance other than just the cost of what you're doing and also the downtime you are talking about?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Sure. A big piece of the actual impact on earnings really comes from the fact that a lot of the refineries are down are some of our higher margin refineries.

For example, our Joliet refinery the Midwest was down for two full months. That's a -- without giving a specific number, I can tell you that's a big chunk of what you're seeing in that earnings number. It is not just the amount of throughput or the amount of volume that was lost but the mix of those refineries as well.

IAIN REID: Okay. Yes, last one just on tax rates if you don't mind. Your tax rate ticked up fairly sequentially in this quarter -- certainly compared to second quarter of last year.

Is that purely a mix effect? Or some of your competitors have been talking about the impact of a stronger dollar on deferred tax balances. Is this something we might see maintained at elevated rates if the dollar remained strong or is it something you would expect to reverse with refining becoming a little more profitable?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Let me hit that. If you're looking, for example, the last year second quarter and this year second quarter, the biggest impact there is the difference in the tax rates on earnings and some of the divestments and restructuring that we have.

Aside from that, particularly if you're looking sequentially this year, it is purely the mix effect of where we're making our money, upstream versus downstream, US, non-US -- so a geography there. You saw the results much different in terms of the downstream quarter-on-quarter. I don't think foreign exchange rates are having an effect on us.

Going forward, I don't have a specific number for you. If you kind of look back over the last several quarters and take out the impact of the big restructuring divestments, we've kind of been in that kind of mid to upper 40s range. Again, I don't have a specific outlook for you. But if you take away a couple those anomalies, that is kind of where we have been.

IAIN REID: All right, David. That is very kind. Thank you so much.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Thank you.

OPERATOR: We'll take our last question today from Faisal Khan with Citi.

FAISAL KHAN: Thanks, David. I just have a follow up. Could you discuss how you're dealing with this RIN issue in the US for refining and downstream? You guys fairly balanced or are you -- do you have more blending capacity than you have gasoline production capacity and how retail and marketing sort of helps mitigate some of that?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: The answer to that is, yes. We are a net purchaser RINs but I'll tell you we are pretty well balanced. We do generate the majority of our credits by blending are biofuels directly. While it is an impact on us, it is not real significant.

I think the more broader issue in that arena is really the RFS mandate and approaching hitting the blend wall next year from an industry perspective. And it is not going to be a matter of RINs or RIN pricing but just the fact that the RINs will become insufficient and compliance with the RFS mandate is just going to be infeasible. So RIMs are an issue. It is a topic but the more broader issue going forward is going to be the RFS mandate heading into 2014.

FAISAL KHAN: Okay. And just to confirm, if I'm looking at your results for the quarter, I shouldn't see any sort of material impact from RINs in the quarter?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: No. Not at all.

FAISAL KHAN: Okay. Great. Thanks.

OPERATOR: That does conclude our question and answer session for today. I'd like to turn it back to David Rosenthal for any additional or closing remarks.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Yes. Thank you.

I just want to thank everybody for your time and questions today. We appreciate you being with us on the call and look forward to visiting with you next quarter. So thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Thank you very much. That does conclude our conference for today. Thank you for your participation. And you may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
exxn : Exxon Mobil Corporation
   IN
i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1300003 : Crude Petroleum Extraction | iextra : Natural Gas/Oil Extraction
   NS
c151 : Earnings | c184 : Joint Ventures | nitv : Interviews | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Performance | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020130808e981006bx
  


 HD
 Q1  2013  Exxon  Mobil Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
7,532 words
   PD
25 April 2013
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©013 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day and welcome to this Exxon Mobil Corporation first-quarter 2013 earnings conference call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time for opening remarks, I would like to turn the call over to the Vice President of Investor Relations and Secretary, Mr. David Rosenthal. Please go ahead, sir.

   TD
DAVID ROSENTHAL, VP - IR & SECRETARY, EXXON MOBIL CORP: Good morning, and welcome to Exxon Mobil's first-quarter earnings call and webcast.

The focus of this call is Exxon Mobil's financial and operating results for the first quarter of 2013. I will refer to the slides that are available through the investor section of our website. Before we go further, I would like to draw your attention to our cautionary statements shown on slide 2.

Moving to slide 3, we provide an overview of some of the external factors impacting our results. Global economic growth was mixed throughout the first quarter. US growth was flat to moderate, and economic indicators were mixed. China experienced slower growth in the European economies remain challenged. Energy markets strengthened in the first quarter, with higher crude oil and non-US natural gas prices. US natural gas prices remained relatively flat compared with the fourth quarter. Industry refining margins strengthened, and we experienced improved chemical commodity product margins.

Turning now to the first-quarter financial results as shown on slide 4. Exxon Mobil's first quarter 2013 earnings were $9.5 billion, an increase of $50 million from the first quarter of 2012. Earnings per share for the quarter were $2.12, up $0.12 or 6% from a year ago. The corporation distributed $7.6 billion to shareholders in the first quarter through dividends and share purchases to reduce shares outstanding. Of that total, $5 billion was used to purchase shares.

Yesterday, the Board of Directors declared a cash dividend of $0.63 per share, a 10.5% increase from the last quarter. Share purchases to reduce shares outstanding are expected to be $4 billion in the second quarter of 2013. CapEx in the first quarter was $11.8 billion, up $2.9 billion from the first quarter of 2012, primarily due to the $3.1 billion Celtic acquisition. Cash flow from operations and asset sales was $14 billion. At the end of the first quarter 2013, cash totaled $6.6 billion and debt was $13.4 billion.

The next slide provides additional detail on first-quarter sources and uses of funds. Over the quarter, cash decreased from $9.9 billion to $6.6 billion. The combined impact of strong earnings, depreciation expense, and the benefit of our ongoing asset management program yielded $14 billion of cash flow from operations and asset sales. Uses included additions to plant property and equipment, or PP&E, of $7.5 billion and shareholder distributions of $7.6 billion. Additional financing and investing activities decreased cash by $2.2 billion, primarily reflecting the Celtic acquisition.

Moving onto slide 6 and a review of our segmented results. Exxon Mobil's first-quarter 2013 earnings of $9.5 billion increased $50 million from the first quarter of 2012. Higher chemical earnings and lower corporate and financing expenses, due primarily to favorable tax items, were mostly offset by lower upstream earnings. Guidance for corporate and financing expenses remain at $500 million to $700 million per quarter. As shown on slide 7, Exxon Mobil's first quarter 2013 earnings decreased by $450 million compared with the fourth quarter of 2012. Lower upstream and downstream earnings were partly offset by higher chemical earnings and lower corporate and financing expenses.

Moving next to first-quarter business highlights and beginning on slide 8. We continue to advance our global portfolio of high-quality upstream projects. Extraction of bitumen froth at the Kearl plant facilities began March 31, and we are beginning to process the bitumen froth. We will be filling on-site tankage with diluted bitumen and will transport the product to market with the new pipeline.

Start-up of an operation of this size and scope is a sequential process involving multiple integrated systems. Our first priority is completing start-up activities safely, which includes mitigating the impacts of abnormally cold weather on both workers and equipment. Production from initial development is expected to reach volumes of approximately 110,000 barrels of bitumen per day, later this year. Progress also continues on the Kearl expansion project, which was 32% complete at the end of the first quarter. Fabrication and assembly of pipe rack and equipment modules in Edmonton is ahead of plan. We have completed setting the main pipe rack modules in the froth treatment plant, also ahead of plan. The project remains on schedule for start-up in 2015.

During the quarter, we also started production from the Telok gas field located offshore Malaysia in the South China Sea. The development concept of -- divide one, design one, build multiple -- was utilized to efficiently develop the project and shorten construction and installation timelines, allowing Telok to be completed on schedule and within budget. The Telok A platform is the first phase of the Telok natural gas project, which, when completed, will consist of two four-legged gas satellite platforms. A total of 14 development wells are planned for the Telok A and B platforms.

In the Gulf of Mexico, appraisal drilling at Hadrian North has been completed and the results are being integrated into development planning for the Hadrian North project. In addition, the Erha North Phase 2 project in Nigeria was sanctioned during the quarter. The project is located 60 miles offshore Nigeria and consists of a subsea tie back to the existing Erha floating production storage and offloading vessel. It is anticipated to recover approximately 175 million barrels of oil with a peak capacity of 60,000 barrels of oil per day. Startup is targeted for 2016.

Turning now to slide 9 and an update on our conventional exploration activities. In Tanzania, we completed two successful wells during the quarter. The Tangawizi-1 well discovered gas in high-quality tertiary sandstone reservoirs, confirming 4 Tcf to 6 Tcf of gas in place. This new discovery is located 10 kilometers from the Zafarani and Lavani discoveries. In addition, the Zafarani-2 well confirmed gas-bearing high-quality reservoir in the cretaceous appraisal targets. We have so far completed five successful wells on Block 2. Exploration efforts continue and additional drilling is planned for later this year.

In the Gulf of Mexico, the Phobos prospect encountered approximately 250 net feed of oil pay in the lower tertiary-aged reservoirs. As you know, we plan to drill several wildcats in the Gulf of Mexico this year. Our next prospect, Thorn, will begin drilling in the second quarter.

Moving now to slide 10. Also during the quarter, we made several substantial additions of high-quality acreage to our exploration portfolio. We expanded the strategic cooperation agreement with Rosneft to include an additional 150 million acres from seven new blocks in the Chukchi, Laptev and Kara Seas in the Russian Arctic. We are now working with Rosneft on 180 million acres in the Russian Arctic, including the original 31 million acres in the Kara Sea. These blocks cover some of the most promising and least explored acreage in the world.

In West Africa, we acquired an 80% interest in Liberia Lot 13, comprising more than 625,000 acres offshore, in water depths ranging from 75 meters to 3000 meters. Lot 13 is located 30 kilometers offshore Liberia's central coast. In the Gulf of Mexico, we added high-quality acreage to our deep-water portfolio. The Bureau of Ocean Energy Management awarded Exxon Mobil the four blocks for which we were the high bidder in the western Gulf of Mexico OCS lease sale 229. In the recent Central lease sale, 227, Exxon Mobil was the high bidder for seven blocks. Additionally, we acquired a 33% working interest from BP through a farm in to the Maui prospect, located in the Walker Ridge area. Exxon Mobil will provide a state-of-the-art deep-water drilling rig and will operate the Maui-1 exploration well expected to spud in the second half of this year.

Turning now to our unconventional activities on slide 11, we continue to progress high-potential liquids-rich unconventional opportunities. During the quarter we closed the Celtic acquisition, bringing 545,000 net acres of liquids-rich Montney shale; 104,000 net acres in the Duvernay shale; and additional acreage in other areas of Alberta into our unconventional portfolio. Although it's very early days, we are rapidly integrating personnel, systems, and processes, leveraging both our own extensive unconventional expertise and our long operating experience in Canada.

We are currently developing future drilling plans to focus on areas expected to deliver the highest liquids yield and to optimize both drilling and completion methodologies. In the Bakken, gross operated production increased 75% year-on-year, with a growth attributable to increased development and optimized completions across our core Bakken acreage. We are utilizing 10 drilling rigs in the Bakken and have fully integrated the acquired Denbury properties into our operations.

In the liquids-rich, Woodford Ardmore shale play, gross operated production increased 39% year-on-year. The Ardmore is our most active unconventional play, with 12 operated rigs delineating more than 270,000 acres in the Ardmore and Marietta Basins. We have observed encouraging early results from our first well in the Marietta Basin since coming on line a year ago. After the successful 2012 test of the overlying Caney Shale in our core Ardmore area, we are progressing with further delineation across both the Ardmore and the Marietta areas. We also continue well testing and execution of drilling plans in Argentina and Colombia. In Russia, we plan to begin operations of West Siberia later this year.

Turning now to the upstream financial and operating results, starting on slide 12. Upstream earnings in the first quarter were just over $7 billion, down $765 million from the first quarter of 2012. Lower crude oil realizations, partly offset by improved natural gas realizations, negatively impacted earnings by $230 million, as crude oil realizations declined $8.66 per barrel, while gas realization increased $0.97 per thousand cubic feet. Production volume and mix effects negatively impacted earnings by $280 million. All other items, including higher expenses related to new project activity, decreased earnings by $250 million. Upstream after-tax earnings per barrel for the first quarter of 2013 were $17.79.

Moving to slide 13. Our first-quarter volume performance is in line with the projection presented at the analyst meeting in March. Oil equivalent volumes decreased by 3.5% from the first quarter of last year. Excluding the impacts of entitlement volumes, OPEC quota effects, and divestments, production was down about 1%. Liquids production was down 21,000 barrels per day, or just below 1% from the first quarter of 2012, as field decline was mostly offset by project ramp-up in West Africa and increased production from liquids-rich plays in the United States. Natural gas production was down 823 million cubic feet per day, or just under 6% quarter-on-quarter, as lower entitlement volumes primarily reflecting Qatar AKG becoming cost current in 2012 and field decline, were partially offset by lower downtime and higher seasonal demand in Europe.

Turning now to the sequential comparison, and starting on slide 14, upstream earnings decreased by $725 million versus the fourth quarter of 2012. Realizations positively impacted earnings by $340 million as crude oil and natural gas realizations increased by $1.68 per barrel and $0.94 per thousand cubic feet, respectively. Volume and mix effects decreased earnings by $80 million, as the unfavorable timing of lifting and two fewer days in the quarter were mostly offset by higher natural gas volumes in Europe and Asia. Other items, including the absence of gains from asset sales and favorable tax items realized in the fourth quarter, decreased earnings by $980 million.

Moving to slide 15. Oil equivalent volumes were up 2.4% from the fourth quarter of 2012. Excluding the impacts of entitlement volumes, OPEC quota effects, and divestments, production was up more than 4%. Liquids production was down 10,000 barrels per day from the fourth quarter, as unfavorable entitlement volumes were mostly offset by lower downtime. Natural gas production was up 672 million cubic feet per day versus last quarter, primarily reflecting higher seasonal demand in Europe.

Moving now to the downstream financial and operating results, and starting on slide 16. Downstream earnings for the quarter were $1.5 billion, down $41 million from the first quarter of 2012. Improved margins, mainly in refining, increased earnings by $780 million. Volume and mix effects decreased earnings by $290 million, mainly due to increased refinery maintenance activity. All other items decreased earnings by $530 million, including lower gains on asset sales outside of the United States, increased operating expenses associated with refinery maintenance activity, and unfavorable foreign exchange effects.

Turning to slide 17. Sequentially, first-quarter downstream earnings declined by $223 million. Improved margins, mainly in refining increased earnings by $470 million. Volume and mix effects decreased earnings by $430 million, mainly driven by increased refinery maintenance activity. Other items reduced earnings by $260 million, due primarily to the absence of a fourth-quarter LIFO gain.

Moving now to the chemical, financial, and operating results starting on slide 18. First-quarter chemical earnings were $1.1 billion, up $436 million versus the first quarter of 2012. Stronger commodity margins increased earnings by $320 million, reflecting improved US steam-cracking margins on lower ethane feed cost. All other items increased earnings by $120 million, mainly due to increased gains on asset sales.

Moving to slide 19, sequentially, first-quarter chemical earnings increased by $179 million. Stronger margins, mainly in US commodities, increased earnings by $80 million. Lower operating expenses and higher gains from asset sales, partly offset by the absence of a prior quarter LIFO gain, increased earnings by a net $90 million.

In conclusion, Exxon Mobil's first-quarter financial and operating performance reflects the value of our strong, integrated business model. In the first quarter, we earned $9.5 billion, generated $14 billion in cash flow, invested $11.8 billion in the business, and distributed $7.6 billion to our shareholders. As we continue to focus on operational excellence, deploy high-impact technologies, and leverage our unmatched global integration, Exxon Mobil remains well-positioned to maximize long-term shareholder value.

That concludes my prepared marks and I would be happy to take your questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: Doug Leggate with Bank of AmericaMerrill Lynch.

DOUG LEGGATE, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Do you know profitability, David, on the upstream continues to, like the historical capture rate. Can you comment as to whether something material has changed there? I guess a couple years ago we talked about the start of an LNG trend, but is there anything specific you can point to that can lead us back on track to where we've been historically?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: If you look at what's happened over the last couple of years, as you noted, the change in the mix, in particular the addition of the US gas volumes, particularly over the period when prices were down in the $2 and some range, you saw the mix impacting the unit profitability relative to the historical trend. As we go forward, when you look at the longer term and you look at the liquids increases that we have coming on and the higher gas prices that we've seen, you could reasonably expect the profitability to reflect those increases in both the production as well as the margin.

One of the other things to keep in mind as we crank up these new projects again is going to be the addition of long-term plateau volumes in the lower decline rate. So as the decline rate levels out and you are not chasing the decline that we had in prior years, you will not be investing as much money to keep the production levels where they are.

I think the other thing that's positive is we look down the road, again, in addition to the liquids increase that we talked about in the analyst meeting and the increase we are projecting this year and going forward, the LNG projects that we have coming on stream in the next few years are all sold out with the gas linked under long-term contracts to crude oil prices.

So, again, it gets back to the longer term, looking at the projects that we have coming on this year and in the next few years and the relative profitability of those projects. Again, over the long-term very confident in the robustness of those projects and our ability to bring them on stream and get those barrels to market.

DOUG LEGGATE: Thank you. My follow-up, hopefully a quick one. Somebody's got to ask you, David, the share buybacks. $14 billion of cash flow. You are not covering the cash outflow. Can you just talk about what you are signaling to us? Oil is still over $100 and you are cutting the buyback program. My recollection is you are not using that in the planning assumption. Any color you can give us would be appreciated.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Doug, let me hit that from a couple perspectives. First, when you look at the cash flow in the quarter as you saw from the sources and uses of funds, we had basically a zero impact on working capital. And in prior quarters, we had positive impacts there. We did close and pay the $3 billion for the Celtic acquisition. We also had some timing of tax payments and that sort of thing. But the cash flow is just an outcome of the earnings, give or take these timing effects.

As we have said in terms of the buyback, I have to tell you there's no change in our approach to capital allocation and the use of our cash flow. As you saw, we once again raised the dividend here, the Board announced that yesterday. 10.5% this year, following on the 21% increase last year, so we continue to raise the dividend on a consistent basis.

And then the share buyback is strictly a function of cash flows in the quarter and expectations going forward in the quarters. But no change in terms of signal or the way that we approach the allocation of the funds.

DOUG LEGGATE: All right. Thanks a lot, David.

OPERATOR: Doug Terreson with ISI.

DOUG TERRESON, ANALYST, ISI: My question is also on upstream profitability, I'm just going to ask in a little bit of a different way. Specifically on the international side, meaning -- your point is taken on US natural gas and the benefits of some of these large LNG projects over the longer term, but internationally between flat realizations versus last year, plus or minus in Rex's comments on declining drilling and completion calls to March.

I just want to see if you could maybe provide a little bit more color on some of the volume and mix affects components on the international side that you highlighted in exhibit 12 and maybe also whether or not there is a geographical aspect of the mix affect that's at work here.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: If you look at -- on the international side and you take a look at the profitability one of the things that we are seeing there is a mix impact with some of the loss of some of the higher-margin Baylor rolls from the production sharing contracts that we've seen over the last couple years. And then the mix, certainly, when you get into this part of the year of European gas sales.

Nothing structural, nothing really to point out other than some mix of fact. Again, if you look over a longer period of time at the projects we have coming online in the earnings contribution of those will make, I don't think you will see any major change to talk about relative to prior history.

DOUG TERRESON: Okay. Thanks for the clarification.

OPERATOR: Paul Cheng with Barclays.

PAUL CHENG, ANALYST, BARCLAYS: Two questions. One, can you give us, what is your 2013 CapEx on the North American shale oil play and versus that, not an absolute, versus 2012 and what is the expectation for 2014?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Paul, I couldn't hear you. Could you just repeat the question on the US CapEx?

PAUL CHENG: Right. Two questions. First, for North American shale oil, can you share with us what is the actual CapEx for this year related to those basin? If you cannot give us an actual, can you tell us what is that comparing to 2012 and also if you can give us an idea then what is the expectations for 2014? Is that going to be higher or is it going to be sustainable that level? Second -- do want to answer that and then I go for the second question?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Yes, how about I answer that one and then we will go for your second question. As you look at Bakken, I don't have a specific actual CapEx outlook number for you, but as we have talked about, as you see our focus in drilling in the unconventional plays in particular the liquids-rich plays in the Bakken, in the Woodford Ardmore, we are allocating an additional amount of CapEx to those areas relative to what we would be allocating to dry gas.

Clearly, as we integrate the Denbury acquisition that we did, the Celtic acquisition that we did, it would be reasonable to expect that on a relative basis year to year over time we will be spending more money on those liquids-rich plays. And you are starting to see some of that bear out. If you look at the improved performance in the Bakken and in the Woodford Ardmore, not only in the production that is coming up, but the efficiency that we are getting, improved completions, improved performance, that strategy and that approach is starting to play out and you are starting to see the dividends.

In terms of going forward 2014, I do not have a specific outlook for you, but it would be reasonable to assume that as we continue to progress, these liquids-based opportunities and continue to drill the wells and have the activity that we are having, leveraging the ability we are getting now with these additional properties, certainly, as we ramp that up you could expect on a relative basis over time for the CapEx to go up. But I don't have a specific actual amount for you.

PAUL CHENG: Dave, just curious, there is, say $3 billion or $4 billion currently you're spending. Is that a ballpark reasonable estimate? Or you are not going to be able to comment even on that?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Again, I wouldn't want to give an actual number allocated to one particular resource type in one particular geography other than to reiterate that, clearly, we have increased the focus on the liquids-rich plays and we continue to ramp up that activity. In particular, as we move from the delineation and appraisal phase into the development phase and start bringing wells online and getting them to sales.

PAUL CHENG: Okay. Now we are near the tail end of the phase one start-up phase. Just want to see that you learn a lot. SInce you guys have never done the mining project. What steps have you taken or what experience that you have learned now you apply to phase two so that you can ensure that it's going to run within budget and the start-up schedule?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Paul, let me first comment on the Kearl start-up. Literally the actual production is imminent. We will be looking forward to that here shortly, as I mentioned in my remarks. In terms of lessons learned and applying those to the Kearl expansion project, the one thing you need to recall is we are partners in the Syncrude project and therefore have a lot of experience in that operation and are actually quite familiar with bitumen mining.

I think the real carryover that you get as you move from the Kearl initial project development to the Kearl expansion project is the ability to carry over all the engineering work from the first section. I think we've mentioned before about 90% of the engineering carries over. The new trains are being built adjacent to the existing ones, and so it's really the efficiency that you get in building the second set of trains right behind the original project. I think that's where you will see that.

In fact, if you look at where we are today and the progress that we have made, we are actually ahead of schedule right now on the expansion project, so I think that's where you are seeing the real efficiencies. Clearly, having said that, as we progressed with the mine development, it will be natural for us to find improvement opportunities as we go along and learn some things and continue to develop the mine plan and heading into the expansion.

But in terms of starting from ground zero or a low starting point, I don't think I would characterize it that way. Again, as you know us, we will be continuously improving everything we are doing is we start-up and ramp up the current project and then head into the next phase.

PAUL CHENG: Okay. Thank you. Can I just stick in with a short question for clarification? In your early comments, for 2013 production guidance, given in March for 1% to 2% decline, is that already factored in the potential PSC impact based on the $100, $110 Brent, or that is not included?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Yes. The impact of PSC affects at the $112 price that we use is in that estimate that we showed you, so to be very specific, if you look at the 2% increase in liquids that we had, we had the PSC affects in there at the assumed price.

PAUL CHENG: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Iain Reid with Jefferies.

IAIN REID, ANALYST, JEFFERIES & COMPANY: A couple questions. First question, on the downstream, if I could, you had a very strong performance in US downstream relative to where the margins seem to go. Also, probably a weaker performance in the non-US downstream. Do you want to talk about the drivers there, like were you accessing more advantage crude in the US perhaps than we estimated? International downstream, was there anything really driving that one which offset the benefits you got in the US?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: If you are looking at the downstream, in particular, I'm not sure if you are actually referring to our quarter over quarter or sequential --

IAIN REID: Well, both, really.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: If you look at both of them, yes. We saw very strong refining margins in particular in the US , and that really does reflect the advantage feeds that we are doing that we are running into those plus the fact that we have good uptime and reliability and good performance in the operations. So that's coming along, as we talked about in the analyst meeting in March, and we are seeing those benefits.

I will say, if you are looking at the sequential quarter to quarter, that delta there was helped by the absence of some unfavorable price timing that we had in the fourth quarter. So if you are looking sequentially and you look at that nice bump in US earnings, a good bit of it is actual margin improvement and the other is in absence of the prior quarter's unfavorable price timing that I mentioned.

If you are looking overseas and you are looking at the downstream business, the biggest impact you see is the significant increase in maintenance activity in our refineries, particularly in Europe and in Canada. That's the bulk of what you are seeing both sequentially and quarter over quarter driving those results. We did have a little negative FOREX impact as well. The absence -- if you are looking sequentially, the absence of the LIFO gain that we had in the non-US from the fourth quarter.

So I think if you step back and look at all of this and just take out the LIFO gains and asset sales that we had talked about in the fourth quarter as well, the operations are running great. We are taking advantage of the feeds that are available, particular here in the US , and continuing to benefit from the integration that we have across our refining and chemicals businesses. I think you are seeing all of that really come to fruition, particularly in the margin area.

IAIN REID: Okay. Thanks for that. And second one, you are obviously building up now significant further volumes in Canadian bitumen. And we've seen the differential there widen even further in the first quarter. Can you talk about how Exxon is impacted by market differentials there? I think you said at the analyst's meeting that you thought you could take advantage, if you like, of your own pipeline systems to get around some of that. Just want to flush that out a bit?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Sure. If you look at our refining footprint in what we call an extended, so if you look at our refineries in the Midwest, in the Rockies, and in Canada, we can process about 600,000 barrels a day of that advantaged crude that you see in that part of the business. Now, when you come back specifically to the Kearl project, as we have said before, we are capable of sending all of the output from the initial development project into our existing refining circuit. So to the extent the differentials continue we'll be able to capture those in our own refining circuit.

IAIN REID: Okay. So it's the second phase you are going to have some problems with then?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Well, when you look at the second phase, we will be looking at both the opportunity to run more of that crude into our existing refineries as well as obvious into third-party. So we are working those logistics now, looking at our various options and opportunities. We've got till 2015, but we're pretty confident when we look across our broad logistics capability in our refining circuit that we will be able to place those barrels in an optimum manner and extract the maximum value from those products.

IAIN REID: Okay. So we should be expecting lower EMP earnings from Kearl, but higher downstream earnings, so the whole mix comes out in the wash.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Well, I think that will all depend on the absolute level of crude prices and margins and then the differentials as well. I can't predict what either of those will be at a given time. I think the real message, though, is that whatever the absolute prices and margins are at the time, we are going to get a benefit from being fully integrated, both across the refining chemicals business and in that integration into Kearl and the ability to process other crudes, including disadvantaged imports, light crudes in the US and that sort of thing.

So it's really optimizing across the entire circuit as well, as geographic optimizations. We feel pretty good about where we are and how our assets match up and how we are managing those and look forward to benefiting more as we go forward with this integration.

IAIN REID: Okay. Just one very quick one if you don't mind. You talk about asset gain in chemicals. Are we talking on an absolute basis hundreds of millions of dollars there? Like how much of that is improving chemical earnings?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Kind of, all in, just under $100 million.

IAIN REID: Okay. That's great. Thank you very much, indeed.

OPERATOR: Pavel Molchanov with Raymond James.

PAVEL MOLCHANOV, ANALYST, RAYMOND JAMES & ASSOCIATES: Questions on two of your exploration areas. First in Tanzania, I realize you are not the operator, but you have a lot of success there. Do you envision a point in the next 12 months of sanctioning a development plan?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: I think if you step back and take a look at Tanzania, we have had significant success there with the wells that we have drilled so far, both the exploration wells and the recent appraisal well. So far we are looking at a gas resources somewhere in the range of 10 TCF to 13 TCF discovered to date.

But as we look forward, we've got a lot of work left to do. With got a lot more seismic that we are running and processing, a lot more analysis to do. We are looking at drilling an additional well later this year, so we've got to take all of that into account before we can ever really start thinking about a development plan.

It's still early days. We know we've got a very high quality resource. We have had a significant amount of early success. There's more exploration work ahead, and once we finish the exploration and appraisal process and know what we've got and know how the commerciality looks, then we would do the natural progression into development planning and that sort of thing. But it is a little early right now. Fortunately, it's really because of all the success we've had to date, but we've got a little more work to do. Once we get all of that done, we'll be in a better position to talk about our go-forward plan.

PAVEL MOLCHANOV: Appreciate that. Follow-up on a little bit bigger-picture question on your unconventional opportunities globally. One of your European competitors recently poured some cold water over particularly shale gas development internationally, talking about all of the obstacles. In your FNL review, you noted some of the issues in Germany. Obviously, earlier in Poland. Get your latest thoughts on how international, ex-North America, unconventional fits into your portfolio and what the plan is.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Yes, I think the most important thing to think about when you look at our international portfolio is how diverse it is. So if you walk around the world, we have a very active program underway in Columbia that we have talked about, and we are progressing activities there and testing some wells and planning to drill some more.

Argentina continues to be a very active area for us. We drilled a number of wells last year that we are testing and looking at. We plan to drill a number of more wells in Argentina. As I mentioned in my prepared remarks, we do still intend to get to work in West Siberia over the course of this year and get some work there.

So that's doing very well and we continue to leverage the expertise that we have here in North America into those plays. Having said that, there is prospectivity in Europe, and as we've mentioned before we have a very large acreage position in unconventional prospectivity in Germany for both gas and liquids. We are working with the government there to try to get permits that would allow us to continue our exploration and appraisal process. We stand ready to ramp up activity there, pending that.

So it's a long-term business. It's a long-term resource development. Both the oil companies and the countries that have these resources are just getting started with their evaluation programs and developing policies. So we can pace our activity based on local requirements and regulations.

The good news for us is we've got a very large portfolio in a lot of different areas and a lot of different resource potential. We are able to dedicate the resources, both human and financial and technology to those areas with the most promise in the most availability and accessibility. We are continuing to do that very well into this year.

PAVEL MOLCHANOV: All right. Appreciate the color on all of that. Thanks.

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions)

Ed Westlake with Credit Suisse.

ED WILLIS, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: This is Scott Willis on for Ed. I just want to focus on US natural gas for a minute if I could. I noticed that your domestic volumes were down around 4% quarter over quarter, and then when we look at natural gas prices, those have been stronger so far in this quarter. Should those prices go forward, I was just wondering how that would affect your decision to grow your domestic gas volumes going forward?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Well, I think if you step back and look at the unconventional resource in North America, particularly in the US that we're working on, as we have talked about over the last few quarters, we have been allocating and dedicating more resources toward the liquid-rich plays, particularly the Woodford Ardmore, as I mentioned, as well as the Bakken. Those efforts are continuing. We are making great progress in terms of productivity optimizing the completions, getting the initial rates an extended rates out. That effort continues unabated, and we will continue to do that.

I think the other news that's really good for us is the flexibility we have across our unconventional resource. We have, as you well know, very large positions in all of the unconventional gas plays in the US. We are still maintaining activity in some of the gas plays where the returns are good. We maintain the flexibility to increase our efforts in those areas if we want to.

But when you are looking at prices in any of the commodities, they move around. We don't tend to take the last two data points and draw a trend line and react in that manner. We tend to have longer-term approaches to the development of all of our resources.

I don't know what prices are going to do going forward, and I wouldn't want to predict exactly what we will be doing at any given time other than currently our focus is on the liquid-rich plays and we are having great success there, but we do maintain the flexibility and optionality in the gas plays as well. So it's a pretty good position to be in, and we will continue to work on the long-term development and react as appropriate to changes in market factors.

ED WILLIS: Okay, great. And then also just on the asset sales. It looks like you did around $400 million this quarter. I was just wondering if that's a decent run rate on how you think the rest of the year will go or if you look to ramp up those asset sales as we go forward?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Yes, it would -- I can not give you any expectation of a run rate. If you look back across the last few years, the asset sales have tended to be lumpy as well as different in certain quarters in the upstream versus the downstream, so I wouldn't want to give you a run rate. We are continually looking at our portfolio as we always do. I wouldn't want to either say any absolute number was appropriate or to give any guidance relative to future quarters and what you've seen this quarter and prior quarters. It will happen when it happens.

ED WILLIS: Got you. Okay. Thanks, David.

OPERATOR: Robert Kessler with Tudor, Pickering, Holt.

ROBERT KESSLER, ANALYST, TUDOR, PICKERING, HOLT: Good morning, David. A couple follow-ups to some earlier points you made. One, the buybacks. You are asked about a reduction in the strategy there. I'd like to ask about the cash balance and flexibility. The $6.6 billion of cash that you got on the balance sheet at the end of quarter, how much of that, I guess in theory, could be used for buybacks?

I know you've got about $400 million marked in the footnotes as restricted, but is that to say that the full $6.2 billion remainder could be used, again in theory, for buybacks or are there any other factors to consider like taxes on repatriation of cash in US to the extent you've got some abroad or that kind of effect?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Well, getting to the last part of your question and backing up, there are a number of factors that determine what our point end cash balance is in any quarter. I mentioned some of those this quarter, including closing the Celtic acquisition, some timing of tax payments, working capital changes, et cetera. We don't have a target in terms of cash balance is or a minimum that we have to have or an operating level.

We manage the cash just to maintain our flexibility and meet all of our commitments, and it does bounce around a fair amount as you've seen over time, but I wouldn't want to make any specific comment on what cash would be available for what or how it might change going forward. Other than to say, as we said before, the share buyback is determined on a quarterly basis and is a reflection of the cash that's available as delivered from the business given the market conditions that we have.

Our expectation is we will buy $4 billion in the second quarter, but other than that, I just wouldn't have any guidance on either the uses of cash or the buyback level going forward.

ROBERT KESSLER: Can you say whether the $6 billion figure roughly is fully available for general corporate purposes in any jurisdiction? Or do you have any sizable amount that can only be used in a certain geography?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Yes, I wouldn't have a specific comment on that, but I don't think there's anything significant or material in any one region or another that's restricted for us. We manage our cash globally. I wouldn't expect there to be anything significant or material to worry about or to think about what to do with.

ROBERT KESSLER: Okay. Thanks for that. And then a quick follow-up for me on the chemical asset sale gain. You mentioned just over $100 million in aggregate. Can you provide a quick split on US versus non-US for that gain in the quarter?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Yes, it's about half and half. Half in the US and half overseas. I said the number was just under $100 million. In total is $70 million. Again, half of the US and half in the non-US.

ROBERT KESSLER: Great. Thanks very much.

OPERATOR: And with no further questions, I'd like to turn it back to Mr. Rosenthal for any additional or closing remarks.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: I would just like to say in closing, I appreciate your time and questions this morning and look forward to our call in about three months, so thank you very much.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
exxn : Exxon Mobil Corporation
   IN
i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1300003 : Crude Petroleum Extraction | iextra : Natural Gas/Oil Extraction
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020130502e94p0025v
  


 HD
 Q4  2012  Exxon  Mobil Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
9,516 words
   PD
1 February 2013
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©013 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day and welcome to the ExxonMobil Corporation Fourth Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time, for opening remarks, I would like to turn the call over to the Vice President of Investor Relations and secretary, Mr. David Rosenthal. Please go ahead, sir.

   TD
DAVID ROSENTHAL, VP, IR & SECRETARY, EXXONMOBIL CORPORATION: Good morning. Welcome to ExxonMobil's fourth quarter earnings call and webcast. The focus of this call is ExxonMobil's financial and operating results for the fourth quarter and full year 2012. I will refer to the slides that are available through the investor section of our website. Before we go further, I would like to draw your attention to our cautionary statement shown on slide 2. Moving to slide 3, we provide an overview of some of the external factors impacting our results. Global economic growth remained weak in the fourth quarter, driven by the US, Japan, and Europe.

Preliminary fourth quarter US GDP showed a slight decline of 0.1%. The Japanese and European economies remain challenged, with Japan experiencing its second recession in three years and Europe likely marginally positive. Meanwhile, China's growth rate showed some improvement, reflecting an upturn in industrial production and higher retail sales. Energy markets were mixed in the fourth quarter, with higher US natural gas prices and relatively flat Brent crude oil prices, while WTI prices declined. European and Asian chemical margins showed improvement. However, global industry refining margins deteriorated significantly versus the third quarter.

Turning now to the fourth quarter financial results as shown on slide 4, ExxonMobil's fourth quarter 2012 earnings were just under $10 billion; an increase of $550 million from the fourth quarter of 2011. Earnings per share for the quarter were $2.20, up $0.23 from a year ago. The Corporation distributed $7.6 billion to shareholders in the fourth quarter through dividends and share purchases to reduce shares outstanding. Of that total, $5 billion was used to repurchase shares. Share purchases to reduce shares outstanding are expected to be $5 billion in the first quarter of 2013. CapEx in the fourth quarter was $12.4 billion, up 24% from the fourth quarter of 2011, primarily due to the Denbury transaction. Our cash generation remains strong, with $14 billion in cash flow from operations and asset sales. At the end of the fourth quarter 2012, cash totaled $9.9 billion and debt was $11.6 billion.

The next slide provides additional detail on fourth quarter sources and uses of funds. Over the quarter, cash decreased from $13.3 billion to $9.9 billion. The combined impact of strong earnings, depreciation expense, working capital, and the benefit of our ongoing asset management program yielded $14 billion of cash flow from operations and asset sales. Uses included additions to plant property and equipment, or PP&E, of $10.1 billion and shareholder distributions of $7.6 billion. Additional financing and investing activities increased our cash by $300 million.

Moving now to the full-year results as shown on slide 6, ExxonMobil's full-year 2012 earnings were $44.9 billion, up $3.8 billion from 2011. Earnings per share for the year were $9.70, up $1.28 from 2011. The Corporation distributed $30.1 billion to shareholders in 2012 through dividends and share purchases to reduce shares outstanding. Of that total, $20 billion was utilized to purchase shares. CapEx in 2012 was $39.8 billion, up $3 billion from 2011, primarily due to continued progress on our world class project portfolio, including the Kearl oil sands project. Included in full-year CapEx was about $3 billion of acquisitions. Our cash generation was very strong, with $63.8 billion in cash flow from operations and asset sales, including $7.7 billion associated with the asset sales.

Moving now to the full-year cash flow statement as shown on slide 7, during the year, cash decreased from $13.1 billion to $9.9 billion. The combined impact of strong earnings, depreciation expense, working capital, and the benefit of our ongoing asset management program yielded $63.8 billion of cash flow from operations and asset sales. Uses included additions to PP&E of $34.3 billion and shareholder distributions of $30.1 billion. Additional financing and investing activities decreased cash by $2.6 billion.

Moving on to slide 8 and a review of our segmented results, ExxonMobil's fourth quarter 2012 earnings of just under $10 billion increased $550 million, or 6%, from the fourth quarter of 2011; primarily due to higher refining and chemical margins, partially offset by lower production volume and lower gains on asset sales. Upstream earnings decreased $1.1 billion, while downstream earnings improved by $1.3 billion. Chemical earnings were up $415 million and corporate and financing expenses increased by $141 million; primarily due to tax items. Guidance for corporate and financing expenses remain at $500 million to $700 million per quarter. As shown on slide 9, ExxonMobil's fourth quarter 2012 earnings increased by $380 million compared with the third quarter of 2012; primarily due to higher production volumes and gains on asset sales, partially offset by lower refining margins. Looking now at the full-year comparison on slide 10, ExxonMobil's full year 2012 earnings were up $3.8 billion to $44.9 billion, an increase of 9% from 2011; primarily due to divestment and restructuring gains and higher refining margins, partially offset by lower production volumes. Upstream earnings decreased $4.5 billion, while downstream earnings were up $8.7 billion and chemical earnings were down $485 million. Corporate and financing expenses for the full-year 2012 were down a favorable $118 million from 2011.

Moving next to fourth quarter business highlights and beginning on slide 11, we continue to advance our global portfolio of high quality upstream projects. At the end of the fourth quarter, construction of the Kearl initial development was complete and we are currently progressing phase startup activities. Mining operations have commenced and ore is being stockpiled adjacent to the ore processing plant, which is being commissioned. Commissioning of the utilities systems is well advanced, with two boilers operational. The ore preparation plant crusher and slurry preparation conveyers also began running in December.

The bitumen process facilities are being readied for the introduction of solvent and the diluent and natural gas supply systems are operational. We expect production of mined, diluted bitumen from the first of three froth treatment trains in the first quarter. Startup of the two additional bitumen froth treatment trains will proceed in sequence as planned, with production from the initial development expected to reach volumes of approximately 110,000 barrels per day of bitumen later in 2013. Despite US permitting and regulatory issues that continued for almost two years, involving transportation of facility modules, our project team achieved industry-leading safety performance and mitigated significant challenges, including an early onset of winter and exceptionally harsh weather during the current startup operations. Our priority remains to complete these activities safely.

Also during the quarter, we announced our plans to develop the Hebron oil field offshore Newfoundland and Labrador. The development will utilized a gravity-based structure designed to withstand a variety of harsh arctic conditions, including sea ice and icebergs. The base, which is already under construction, has been designed to store approximately 1.2 million barrels of crude oil and will support an integrated topsides deck that includes living quarters and facilities to perform drilling and production operations. Oil recovery from the project is currently estimated at 700 million barrels with upside potential. The platform is designed for production of 150,000 barrels of oil per day. First oil is anticipated around the end of 2017. Finally, the Angola Satellites Phase 2 project was sanctioned during the quarter. The development continues to optimize the capabilities of the existing block 15 facilities and will allow current production levels to be increased via subsea tiebacks to our existing FPSOs.

Turning now to slide 12 and an update on our conventional exploration activities, in Tanzania, the Lavani-2 well successfully appraised the Lavani-1 Paleogene discovery. Additionally, a new discovery of gas in a high quality Cretaceous reservoir was encountered. This reservoir is of similar age to the Zafarani discovery and marked the third Discovery on Block 2 in 2012. The Zafarani-2 appraisal well spud in December. Additional 3D seismic acquisition and processing is also underway and is expected to be available for analysis in the first quarter of 2013. Also during the quarter, ExxonMobil secured the right to farm in to a 75% operating interest in the Tugela South exploration right, which covers approximately 2.8 million acres offshore Durban on the East Coast of South Africa. Separately, we executed a technical cooperation permit with the government of South Africa to study the hydrocarbon potential of the Deepwater Durban Basin covering approximately 12.4 million acres. In the Gulf of Mexico, the Phobos prospect, which is five miles south of ExxonMobil's Hadrian South discovery, spud during the quarter. Additionally, we have plans for an active exploration program in the Gulf of Mexico during 2013.

Turning now to unconventional exploration activities on slide 13, in the middle Magdalena Basin of Colombia, we drilled the Mono Arana 1 well, targeting tight oil in the La Luna Shale formation. This well will be tested during the first quarter of 2013. In Argentina, we have completed the drilling of four wells on the Loma del Molle, Los Toldos 1 and Los Toldos 2 blocks with encouraging results. Completions and testing are now underway. Two additional wells on the Sierra Chata and [Pampa de los Llegos] blocks are currently drilling.

In Russia, Rosneft and Exxon Mobil signed a pilot development agreement establishing a joint project to assess the commercial production of tide oil reserves at the Bazhenov and Achimov formations in West Siberia. The joint venture is 51% Rosneft and 49% Exxon Mobil. Work will be carried out on Rosneft's 23 license blocks covering a total of more than 10,000 square kilometers. Drilling is anticipated to begin in 2013. Also, during the quarter, we closed on the Denbury transaction, which increased our holdings in the Bakken region by about 50% to approximately 600,000 net acres, giving the Company a more significant presence in one of the major US growth areas for onshore oil production.

Turning now to the upstream, financial, and operating results and starting on slide 14, upstream earnings in the fourth quarter were $7.8 billion, down $1.1 billion from the fourth quarter of 2011. Lower crude oil realizations, mostly offset by improved natural gas realizations, negatively impacted earnings by $70 million, as crude oil realizations declined $3.18 per barrel and gas realizations increased $0.21 per thousand cubic feet. Production volume and mix effects negatively impacted earnings by $400 million. All other items, primarily lower gains from asset sales, decreased earnings by $600 million. Upstream after-tax earnings per barrel for the fourth quarter of 2012 were $19.65.

Moving to slide 15, oil equivalent volumes decreased by 5.2% from the fourth quarter of last year, due to the impact of base decline, lower entitlement volumes, and divestments. Volumes were positively impacted by the ramp-up of projects in West Africa and higher demand. Excluding the impacts of entitlement volumes, OPEC quota effects and divestments, production was down 2.1%.

Turning now to the sequential comparison and starting on slide 16, upstream earnings increased by $1.8 billion versus the third quarter of 2012. Realizations decreased earnings by $50 million, primarily due to lower crude oil realizations, which declined $0.66 per barrel, but were mostly offset by improved natural gas realizations, which increased $0.72 per thousand cubic feet. Production volume and mix effects increased earnings by $660 million. Other items, including higher gains from asset sales and favorable tax items, increased earnings by $1.2 billion.

Moving to slide 17, oil equivalent volumes were up 8.4% from the third quarter of 2012, mainly due to higher seasonal demand in Europe and lower downtime, partly offset by base decline. Entitlement volumes were positive due to favorable price and spend impacts in several regions. Turning now to the full-year comparison and starting on slide 18, upstream earnings were $29.9 billion in 2012, a decrease of $4.5 billion from 2011. Lower crude oil realizations, primarily in the US, partly offset by improved natural gas realizations, led to a negative impact of $110 million. Lower volume and mix impacts decreased earnings by $2.3 billion. All other items, including higher operating expenses, unfavorable tax items, lower gains on asset sales, and unfavorable foreign exchange impacts reduced earnings by a total of $2.1 billion.

Moving to slide 19, full-year volumes declined by 5.9%, or 267,000 oil equivalent barrels per day, compared to 2011. Lower volumes were primarily driven by base decline, lower entitlement volumes, and divestments, partly offset by project ramp-up in West Africa and lower downtime. Excluding the impacts of lower entitlement volumes, quotas, and divestments, production was down 1.7%. For further data on regional volumes, please refer to the press release and the IR supplement.

On slide 20, we show actual 2012 production volumes compared to the outlook provided at the March analyst meeting. Overall, actual 2012 volumes were 2.7% lower than this outlook. About 50% of this variance was due to operational performance with the balance due mainly to entitlement and Iraq spend impacts. Operational performance for the year was slightly below forecast, reflecting the timing of work program execution and the duration of downtime events, particularly in the UK North Sea. While the 2012 Brent crude price of about $112 per barrel is near the basis of our March analyst meeting outlook, prices in the first half of 2012, most notably February through April, were higher than our outlook basis, which negatively affected volumes due to the timing of both permanent and price-related impacts. The efficient use of capital in Iraq resulted in lower spending, which also lowered net volumes.

Moving now to the downstream, financial, and operating results and starting on slide 21, downstream earnings in the fourth quarter were $1.8 billion, up $1.3 billion from the fourth quarter of 2011. Improved margins, mainly in North American refining, increased earnings by $1.2 billion. Volume and mix effects increased earnings by $80 million, mainly due to increased capture of advantage North American crude supply. All other items increased earnings by a net $80 million.

Turning to slide 22, sequentially, fourth quarter downstream earnings declined by $1.4 billion. Lower refining margins decreased earnings by $1.4 billion, while volume and mix effects increased earnings by $260 million, mainly driven by optimization and yield improvements. Other items reduced earnings by $270 million, primarily due to the absence of the gain on the Switzerland divestment. The full-year comparison for the downstream is shown on slide 23.

Downstream full-year 2012 earnings were $13.2 billion, up $8.7 billion from 2011. Higher margins, mainly in North American and European refining, increased earnings by $2.6 billion. Volume and mix effects increased earnings by $180 million, as refining optimization activities, including increased capture of advantage North American crude supplies, were partly offset by higher planned maintenance activity and lower contributions from divested assets. Other effects increased earnings by $5.9 billion, mainly due to the restructuring of our downstream holdings in Japan.

Moving now to the chemical, financial, and operating results starting on slide 24, fourth quarter chemical earnings were $958 million, up $415 million versus the fourth quarter of 2011. Stronger margins increased earnings by $330 million, mainly reflecting higher aromatics realizations and improved light feed advantage. All other items increased earnings by $90 million.

Moving to slide 25, sequentially, fourth quarter chemical earnings increased by $168 million. Stronger margins, mainly due to improved aromatics realizations and improved light feed advantage, increased earnings by $180 million. All other items decreased earnings by $10 million. On slide 26, we show the full-year comparison for chemical results. 2012 earnings were nearly $3.9 billion. Weaker margins, mainly in Europe and Asia, decreased earnings by $440 million, while volume and mix effects decreased earnings by $100 million. Other effects increased earnings by $50 million, due to the Japan restructuring, partly offset by a number of items, including unfavorable foreign exchange impacts.

Moving to slide 27, ExxonMobil's fourth quarter and full-year financial and operating performance reflect the value of our integrated business model and other competitive advantages. In the fourth quarter, we earned just under $10 billion, generated $14 billion in cash flow, invested $12.4 billion in the business, and distributed $7.6 billion to our shareholders. As we continue to focus on operational excellence, deploy high impact technologies, and leverage our unparalleled global integration, ExxonMobil remains well-positioned to maximize long-term shareholder value.

Finally, I would like to mention two upcoming events. First, in mid-February, we will be releasing our 2012 reserves replacement data. Second, as many of you will already have seen, our analyst meeting this year will take place at the New York Stock Exchange on Wednesday, March 6. This will include a live audio webcast beginning at 9.00 AM Eastern, 8.00 AM Central Time. ExxonMobil's presenters will be led by Chairman and CEO, Rex Tillerson. That concludes my prepared remarks. I would now be happy to take your questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions)

Evan Calio, Morgan Stanley.

EVAN CALIO, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: My question on production is for Kearl, is that weather the driver in the short-term delay in the production ramp? Should we be considering a 75% ramp-up to 110,000 barrels a day exiting the year at that capacity?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: The weather situation was a major factor in the startup moving from what we had originally said by the end of the year to the first quarter. We had two things, actually. One, weather came earlier than normal and then it has been just brutally cold up there and so we've had to adjust accordingly. As we move through the quarter and continue progressing some of the activities I mentioned in my prepared remarks, we do expect as that first froth treatment process comes up that'll give us about 37,000 barrels of bitumen a day. Then we'll bring up the next two froth treatment trains kind of in sequence and that'll get us up to 110,000. I don't have a specific date for achieving the 110,000, but it'll be later in the year, as a function of progress that we make here across the winter getting things started up safely. The focus is getting the project up and running, getting that first production online, and then moving forward and getting up to the full capacity that we've mentioned. We are making really good progress this quarter, but again, it's a deliberate, diligent effort to get this thing up safely, recognizing that this is a multi-decade project and we really want to focus on getting it up right.

EVAN CALIO: That's great. My second question really relates to the use of rail for oil movement in North America. I know that Exxon has a large existing railcar fleet, a diversified and growing liquid footprint. Yet, I also read a report recently that Exxon's placed a significant railcar order, recently. I'm just wondering if you see rail as a potential solution for Canadian barrel production in the event maybe the Keystone is delayed or denied or if you have other kind of specified or contemplated use for rail as a bit more permanent solution for oil movement in North America? Thanks.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: That's an all-encompassing question, so I'll probably step back here for just a second and put it in perspective. First of all, with regard to the Kearl project, we have worked all of the logistics out and we can place all of our barrels and we have the capability to run all those barrels in our own refineries for that first 110,000 barrels a day. We may elect to put some into third party refineries, but we do not have an issue, in terms of logistics, moving those barrels out of the Kearl project and into the market. As you look a little more broadly, both at the Canadian heavy crudes, as well as a lot of the crudes such as Bakken, until pipelines are built and some of the things that you mentioned actually come to fruition, there are, today, bottlenecks across the industry and there's a lot of different modes of transportation being used to move that product to market; of which, railcar is certainly one of them waiting for some of these pipelines to come in. As you mentioned, we have, as you would expect with the size of our business, we have a very large fleet of railcars, both across all of our businesses and so that is already a primary mode of transportation for us.

We're always looking at that. We're always looking at the logistics and how we can optimize both the placement of our production into the market, as well as obtaining advantage feed stocks for our refining circuit. That is an ongoing effort and there's nothing unusual in that. In regards to the rumor that you heard, I would just say that's a rumor. Wouldn't have a comment on it, specifically. But I can say there's nothing out of the ordinary in terms of what our organization, our supply organization, is working on. Again, getting our crudes to market for the best value and getting the lowest cost advantage feed stocks into our refineries and chemical plants.

EVAN CALIO: Thank you, David. I'll leave it at that. Appreciate it.

OPERATOR: Doug Leggate, Bank of AmericaMerrill Lynch.

DOUG LEGGATE, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Can I deal first with the capture rate? We used to look at this quite a lot. I guess it's now become a bit of an issue again. I'm talking about the net income as a proportion of your weighted realizations, not just in this quarter, but last two or three quarters, it looks like it's been sliding a little bit. I'm just wondering if there is a particular trend that you can observe there or if there's something that you're seeing as well, what might be behind that? Then I've got a quick follow-up, please.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: I know the trend you're talking about over the last couple of quarters. Of course, there's a lot of things working in there, some of the price differentials that you're seeing, some of the mix effects of where our production's coming from, some of the entitlements effects that you see there, and again, US gas production and that sort of thing. I wouldn't read anything into a couple of quarters' worth of data. We are very focused on unit profitability and working that very hard, getting some of these projects up. We have seen some increased operating expense as we brought some of these new projects up. But again, I think if you look over the longer trend and you look at the projects we got coming on, I think that'll sort itself out, but lot of ups and downs across the year here.

DOUG LEGGATE: Okay. I'll keep an eye on that one. The other one is really, I know you're not going to give me a great answer on this, at least I'm presuming so, buybacks and dividends, David, there is some chatter in the market that the sustainability of your buybacks might not be realistic to assume $5 billion on a quarterly basis. But you have still got very, very low net debt-to-cap. I'm just curious about how management is thinking about where the balance sheet ought to be for a company given the level of your capital spending and what the priorities would be potentially, again, for the rebound?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Yes, I mentioned in the prepared remarks that we're looking at another $5 billion of buybacks for the quarter. I don't have any guidance going forward. That'll depend on a number of things, including commodity prices and margins. In terms of the balance sheet structure and use of debt and our cash flows, Doug, there's really no change in what we've been doing for a very long time, which is making sure we pay a consistent increasing dividend over time. We fund that very robust capital program that we have and get these projects.

You know we have some very large projects starting up between now and the end of 2016, getting all that funded, as well as our pipeline of portfolio projects and then the balance of the cash, we return to the shareholders via the buyback. In terms of target leverage or any of that sort of thing, I really wouldn't have a comment on that other than we do have an objective of maintaining a very strong balance sheet, keeping that flexibility to take advantage of opportunities. Although there's wide variability in prices and margins as we go through the cycles in a business, those constants will remain just that and we really wouldn't have any change that I could foresee coming.

DOUG LEGGATE: Great. Thanks a lot, David.

OPERATOR: Ed Westlake, Credit Suisse.

ED WESTLAKE, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: We're going to keep this on the actual earnings, but one question for 2013. Obviously you've made some small acquisitions, Denbury and obviously, Celtic, you couldn't just run us through what volumes you expect in '13 and when you expect the Celtic deal to close?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Let me hit the second one first and then I'll come back to the other one. I really wouldn't give any outlook comments on Celtic. That transaction has not closed yet. We're still in the review process, so making any comment about that probably would not be appropriate. If we go back to the Denbury deal that we did close in the fourth quarter, we did pick up, as I mentioned, 200,000 acres there. I don't have an outlook for you, but in terms of what we'll do as we go forward, I can tell you that we did see, in our own business, in the Bakken, gross operated production of about 33,000 barrels a day this year and that was up just over 50% from last year. That excludes the little bit of a contribution from the Denbury acquisition there at the end of the year.

I will say that this acreage that we're picking up is in the high-performing Middle Bakken and Upper Three Forks area. It's also pretty adjacent to the properties we already had. We get some good synergy and leverage there. Without giving a specific outlook on the volumes from that, we are certainly looking forward to folding that into our portfolio, optimizing the production out of that, and really putting together, as we always do, a long-term forward plan for developing that resource. We're pretty excited about it, but we just got it and we're just getting to work on it.

ED WESTLAKE: Okay. Then, just in the quarter you had, I mean, European gas, was demand weak or was it decline? Then on Africa, you fell a bit in Q4 versus Q3, and I'm just wondering, was that anything unusual?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Let's take Europe first. It's really decline, just normal decline, nothing out of the ordinary there. If you're looking year over year, particularly in the fourth quarter, we did have some asset management impacts as well. Think about it as a little uptick in demand, offset by normal decline, and the impact of the assets that we divested.

ED WESTLAKE: Then Africa oil fell Q over Q and obviously year over year?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Looking at the Africa liquids, I think we're actually up a little bit in the fourth quarter of '12 versus '11. If you're looking sequentially, that's really just a planned downtime event. We actually had a little increase in price and spend entitlement impacts, but it was really maintenance and downtime.

ED WESTLAKE: Thanks.

OPERATOR: Robert Kessler, Tudor Pickering Holt.

ROBERT KESSLER, ANALYST, TUDOR, PICKERING, HOLT: If I could just follow up on the European gas volume comments, even if I adjust for the portfolio effects, I'd estimate you're still down maybe 5% year-on-year and wondering, one, is that a good adjusted number or where would you point me there? Then secondly, how much of the decline might you attribute to loss with increased competition, with, say, coal imports into Europe, which appear to have been quite robust, kind of midyear into year-end? Then how much of that might reverse in the first quarter, would you estimate?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: It was probably best to look at that on a full-year over full-year, although the quarter, I think, would be pretty similar. If we look year over year in total, we did see a little uptick in demand on a net basis and we actually had a little better performance in our operations from a downtime perspective. That was offset, if you look at the total year over year demand, really by decline and asset management impacts. In terms of competition from coal or that sort of thing, I don't think that's a big impact. I know there's been some switching around up there. But I think for our perspective, overall, again, our demand was a little higher. We're just seeing the impact of normal decline and the asset management from the assets we divested, primarily in the fourth quarter of last year.

ROBERT KESSLER: Okay, thanks. Then on the downstream, it sounds like you referenced a better capture on the light end of the barrel feeding into your refineries. Can you give us some more color around that? Are you running more light crude oil in North America as a percentage of the overall feed stock and are you getting a better price relative to benchmarks in the applicable regions, say, LOS, along the Gulf Coast? Any kind of incremental color in terms of earnings contribution on the margin or extra volumes you're running?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Yes, sure. Let me give you just a little bit of data coming right out of the earnings [recs] that we talked about. If you look at our fourth quarter '12 over fourth quarter '11 earnings, there's a volume mix effect there that nets to $80 million. I can tell you within that is about $300 million positive on our optimization of our refining circuit and a big piece of that is going to be higher advantage crude processing; both heavy crudes into a number of our refineries, as well as an increased light feed slate along the Gulf Coast. Now, that was offset by a number of things, including assets that we no longer own. But likewise, even if you look on the sequential earnings where you see that volume mix effect of a positive $260 million, embedded in that is about $400 million of total refining optimization effects, also including the slate that we're running in, particularly again, the light feeds, as well as getting some more of the heavy feeds in. Without being real specific in terms of numbers, we are benefiting greatly.

I think one thing that we ought to be clear on understanding is it's not just the optimization of the feed slate into the refineries to produce clean products. It's also the benefit we get from the integration with chemicals and lube. We're optimizing the products that come out, as well, across a broader slate. When we're looking at optimizing the total circuit, it's across all of the business units and that's where we probably get an advantage that others who don't have this level of integration just aren't able to get and so some of that shows up in the other places as a well. I can give you one just number that probably helped a little bit. As we look at just our US Gulf Coast refining circuit, we have more than tripled the processing of advantage North American crude over the last couple of years. Again, without giving a KBD or a percentage basis, you can get a feel for the kind of impact that we're having.

ROBERT KESSLER: I appreciate that, the ratio, at least. Now that you've tripled and we're set to get a bunch more pipe to come online to the coastal markets here in short order, can you give some order of magnitude of how much further you could go as far as a ratio, again, assuming the price would justify it in a linear programming model?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: I wouldn't want to give a specific number there for commercial reasons, other than to say we are working on that and tweaking things a little bit so that we can continue to pursue the opportunities to do that and get a little more flexibility. One of the things I'll mention, another statistic that I think folks lose sight of a little bit just because of our size, is when you look at our five, what we call mid-continent refineries, so you're talking about the Rockies and up into Canada, we've got about 600,000 barrels a day of, quote, mid-con, if you will, refining capacity. While that's not a big percentage of our total worldwide capacity, when you look at it compared to others in the industry in the US, it is a sizable component of our capacity. Again, if you're thinking about heavy feeds in the refineries, if you're looking at light feeds into the circuit, from the Gulf Coast all the way up into Canada, we are optimizing that entire circuit. Again, that's across refining chemicals and lubes and you're seeing that in our margins; both in the chemical business and in the refining business.

ROBERT KESSLER: Got it. Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Jason Gammel, MacQuarie.

JASON GAMMEL, ANALYST, MACQUARIE RESEARCH EQUITIES: David, I was hoping that I might be able to get some more granularity on the comment on slide 12 that talks about the active exploration program in the Gulf of Mexico in 2013, either in terms of number of rigs employed, number of wells planned, or better yet, specific prospects you plan to drill? Then if you could provide similar information on the global Deepwater program?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Sure. Let's start with the Gulf of Mexico. It's really a number of things from drilling wells to processing seismic to capturing additional opportunities. I could give you a couple of well examples. The Phobos well has spud. We're participating in the Thorn well next, so a couple of wells there. We are also, as you know, we have a very large portfolio and we're running a lot of seismic activity, both on the imaging side, as well as the processing and analysis. So, a lot going on.

I think in terms of the specifics and kind of some of the numbers, I'll hold off and we'll discuss that in our analyst meeting and give you a little more granularity and coverage on that. If you look globally, we've got a number of things going on, building on success from last year. As you know, we had the discoveries in Tanzania, very successful there, and a lot more work going on there. We'll be following up on the success we had in Romania, in the Northern Black Sea, as an example. It's really a nice pipeline. We're doing appraisal and work on Hadrian and looking at the project there. That's kind of at the front end of the curve.

Some other wells going down, building on some successes and then the pipeline of opportunities coming in, a couple of those I mentioned in my remarks. We do intend to give you a really good fulsome update on our Deepwater program in the analyst meeting, so I probably don't want to get too far out ahead of that. In addition, and I think equally exciting, is we have a number of unconventional wells that are liquids-oriented that we'll be doing this year. Of course, I mentioned Western Siberia with Rosneft, we have a lot of activity going on in Colombia, continuing to work in Argentina. So probably as balanced a portfolio as we've had in a long time as we head into 2013 and again, building on last year's success and starting to drill a lot of these opportunities that we've acquired over the last few years.

JASON GAMMEL: Okay. That helps and look forward to the analyst meeting. As my second question, David, this is probably going to be fruitless, but you do reference on slide 20 that Iraq spend had negative effects on the 2012 production volumes relative to the outlook. If that Iraq number went to zero, would you be able to provide what type of impact that would have on your production guidance?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: No, I really don't have that number and wouldn't want to speculate on that. I think if you look at what we were able to do in this past year in Iraq, it's really meet our commitments, get the production up, spend a lot less money, all of that's good. It just, as you know how the contracts work there, that meant that we got fewer barrels. But I wouldn't want to speculate on what a number might be if the spend went to zero.

JASON GAMMEL: Okay. No problem. I thought that might be the case. Thank you, David.

OPERATOR: Doug Terreson, ISI.

DOUG TERRESON, ANALYST, ISI GROUP: I have a question about the downstream. Your OECD product sales posted a positive comparison for the first time in a while, meaning North America and Europe, Canada. My question is whether or not you guys are seeing better trends in some of these developed countries or whether company-specific factors might be driving the improved results. Specifically, a minute ago you mentioned that you're running a lot more North American crudes and yields might be better. But anyway, just wanted to see if you could try and reconcile that.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Sure. Let me start with the US, because that's probably the best indicator of what we're seeing. You do see a bit more, I mentioned that the optimization we're getting out of running some of the feeds, but I think the biggest part, and the one that we're really pleased with, is we're seeing some good business growth out of our new model and our new footprint. We've been spending the last few years transitioning from a company-owned retail market or retail business, rather, into a dealer and distributor market. So you might think, well, we would lose all those volumes, but what we've seen, in fact, is we've kept a lot of those volumes and then the B-to-B business has picked up for us. Again, we're pleased with the ability. Again, it all gets back to this integrated business model and integrated business teams looking at the new footprint that we have on the retail side and finding ways to profitably move the barrels into the market that we used to run through our owned and operated stores. That's really the big driver there.

DOUG TERRESON: Okay. Also, you mentioned in the presentation just a few minutes ago, two of the more high potential unconventional oil development areas; which being Argentina and Russia. I wanted to see if you could provide a little bit more specificity on what Exxon plans to accomplish in the joint venture with Rosneft and also in Argentina in 2013? Meaning, given the pace of activity that you highlighted, seems like you may be able to frame an outlook in Argentina sooner. But just wanted to see if you had more specifics on the next steps in those two countries this year.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Sure. Let me start with Russia and then back up into, into Argentina. If you're looking at Western Siberia in particular, in that unconventional area, the plan for 2013 is really to take this agreement that we've signed and really start looking at testing, analyzing what's there. Of course, on all these unconventional plays, not a question of is there something down there, it's a question of can you make it commercial? As you've seen around the world, some of these have been commercial early and some have not been commercial. The most important first step in Western Siberia tight oil is to see what's there, apply some technology, and see if that's going to be commercial. That's what we'll be doing this year jointly with Rosneft.

Of course, the great thing about Western Siberia is you have an opportunity to leverage the expertise we've developed and are applying here in the US and we've applied elsewhere in other countries. We're currently doing in Argentina, Colombia, and take that into Western Siberia, marry it up with Rosneft's operating capabilities and all of the assets that they have on the ground and see if we can't fairly quickly ascertain what's there in the commercial viability. I mentioned there's, I think, 10,000 square kilometers over 23 blocks, so defining where the best spots are quickly will also be very key so that we don't spend too much time and money drilling into areas that don't have the best prospectivity. It's still early days in Argentina. I mentioned that we do have these four wells down and we're very happy to have that. We're looking at those. We've got 800,000 acres down there and we know it spans all of the windows, from dry gas to mixed gas and liquids, to tight oil.

The real objective of the exploration effort is to figure out what we've got, where it is, can it be commercially produced and then after that, how you might develop that resource and get those products to market. As we look into 2013 in Argentina, we're going to continue evaluating and testing the wells that we drilled and got down last year. I'll tell you that we have another well that was drilling at year-end that we'll get done in the first quarter and get to work testing that this year. Then we have the sixth well, I mentioned that spud in December and then we've got four additional wells coming this year.

DOUG TERRESON: Wow.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: These will be our first operated wells in a number of areas. When we get done this year, although we will have barely scratched the surface of 800,000 acres, we should have a pretty good idea of what we've got with the way we've got these wells.

DOUG TERRESON: David, you don't consider infrastructure constraints to be meaningful in either country where you guys are operating?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Not at this point in time.

DOUG TERRESON: Okay.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: We've got plenty of assets on the ground that we're deploying and so we don't see that as an issue; again, in this exploration and evaluation and assessment phase that we're in.

DOUG TERRESON: Okay, thanks.

OPERATOR: Iain Reid, Jefferies.

IAIN REID, ANALYST, JEFFERIES & COMPANY: Going back on production, just looking at it from a high level, you're talking about falling by 6% year-on-year. But gas is down substantially more than that; particularly in Asia. You've talked about European issues, but also in the US. It seems to me that, globally, your gas volumes are declining, well, faster than I think was generally expected a year ago at the analyst meeting. Do you want to make a kind of general comment on that?

Obviously, Exxon's very positive on gas in terms of demand going forward, so it seems strange in a way. I can understand the US situation, but outside of the US, it seems strange unless there's some operational issue why gas is falling really so far. It kind of makes you wonder about whether the rebound which you were forecasting last year in overall production, 1% or 2% from 2012 is likely under this sort of progression we see.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Yes, let me kind of look at that on the full-year basis. As you mentioned, gas in total year-on-year is down about 6%. If you look across the regions, I mentioned Europe already and that was, that was a chunk of that. One of the big factors is one I mentioned in the last quarter. We became cost current at our AKG project in Qatar and you might recall, that's a flowing gas project into Qatar as opposed to going into LNG and that's the biggest driver. If you look at our Asia gas production, down about 500 a day or 10% year-on-year, there's a few things in there, but a big chunk of that is going to be the AKG project. Now, if you look across some of the other ones, we did see, for example, in Australia, some lower demand this year that was weather related.

If you look at the declines in North America, the US down just a little bit, we have, as I've talked about over the year, had a fairly significant shift of our rig count away from the dry gas areas into the liquids-rich areas, into places like the Bakken, in the Permian, in the Ardmore, and away from some of the dry gas areas. So you're certainly seeing that impact there as well. Canada, there we had the asset sales you might recall a year ago and so we saw some of that. We got good value for that property and normal decline. If I look across all of the regions, there's nothing there that's unexpected. The only thing that happened a little quicker than we were expecting was the cost currency in AKG. We will be providing a fulsome update on our production outlook at our March analyst meeting, both on the liquids and the gas side.

But I will say, just to kind of finish it up, if I look at expectations and performance, decline came in this year, right about what we were expecting. Of course, we knew what the impacts of the asset sales would be and the cost currency on AKG. From that standpoint, and operationally, overall downtime was a little better, performance improved there. I wouldn't look at the year-to-year change as anything to be concerned about or that we weren't able to do what we had planned to do. But again, in terms of going forward, we're certainly looking forward to visiting with you all in March and giving you a fulsome outlook on that.

IAIN REID: Okay. Thanks, David. Can I tempt you on a question on the reserve outlook for 2012 or are you going to hold that one over until you report that?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: We'll hold that for a couple of weeks. We're going to do our normal mid-February report out on how the reserves and resource base is looking and so if you'll bear with us for a couple weeks, we'll get that out about mid-February.

IAIN REID: Okay. Last one then, if I look at CapEx, which obviously is higher than you outlined a year ago, can you just strip out the acquisitions you've made to tell us what the kind of organic CapEx is?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Yes, let me take the opportunity to update on that because I think we had talked about $37 billion at the analyst meeting and we said that did not include acquisitions. We had about $3 billion worth of acquisitions across the year. So if you take the $3 billion out of the $40 billion that we actually reported, we'd be pretty much spot-on the outlook that we gave you in March.

IAIN REID: Okay. Look forward to March then.

OPERATOR: Paul Cheng, Barclays.

PAUL CHENG, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: David, in your presentation on page 16, you indicate that the $1.2 billion is the asset sales gain and favorable tax primarily. Do you have an actual absolute number for the tax benefit in the quarter?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: This was the -- which?

PAUL CHENG: Page 16 on the upstream.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Oh, okay. That's on the sequential --

PAUL CHENG: Right. Do you have an absolute number, not sequential change, but the absolute number of the tax benefit in the quarter?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Sure. The absolute -- let me see. I don't have an absolute number. I can tell you what the change is sequentially. It's about $700 million of the $1.2 billion.

PAUL CHENG: That's the sequential change.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Yes.

PAUL CHENG: If after the call you have that number and would be willing to share it, if you don't mind to have someone just send me an e-mail?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Okay.

PAUL CHENG: Secondly, in Kearl, if we look at the actual cause for Phase 1 now, $12.9 billion, last year I think revised up to $10.9 billion and our regional budget was $8 billion, so this is somewhat uncharacteristic of Exxon, given the cost overrun. With that only about a year and you'd gone up from $10.9 billion to $12.9 billion, should we be concerned about a Phase 2, the current $8.9 billion that is going to be significantly higher?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Yes, Paul, let's talk a little bit. As you'll recall, between the very first estimate and the $10.9 billion that we gave, we reconfigured the project and put it into the initial production project and the expansion project and talked about the bottlenecks would come down and that was one of the big factors in that. Of course, ForEx has played a factor in the overall project, et cetera. I think one of the things that's real important to keep a focus on is, if you look at the total bitumen expected to be recovered by the first phase and the expansion phase, about 3.2 billion barrels of bitumen, the all-in cost for that including this recent update that we gave on the dollar cost is about $6.80 a barrel total, all-in, and that compares to the $6.20 that we had given before. We're up about 10% on a unit cost basis, as we work through both the initial project and the expansion.

While that is an increase, we're feeling pretty good about it, given a lot of the challenges that we had to deal with in terms of transportation of the modules and the weather and that sort of thing. If we look specifically at the expansion project, where we have given an estimate of $8.9 billion, and of course, that's a lot less than the first one because of all the infrastructure, the tailings dam and all of that sort of thing that's already in there. The good news on that project is it's actually a little ahead of schedule as we're sitting here today. It's about 27% complete and moving right along, and really, really starting to see the advantage of the ability to basically carry over all of the engineering work that was done on the first phase, building the second train right behind the first one, applying the early learnings in kind of a realtime basis. I don't have another cost outlook for you other than the $8.9 billion, but when you look at the schedule we're on and the progress that we're making, that project is coming along real good. Again, when you look at those two projects together, we feel real good about the competitiveness of that project going forward in this space and then again, as the years go by, we'll look forward to debottlenecking and getting up to that full 345,000 barrels a day we've talked about before.

PAUL CHENG: Okay. Thank you. Can I just maybe sneak in, on the shale oil, do you have a rough estimate the number of rigs that you're going to use in the US for the shale oil development? Is that going to be higher, about the same, or lower than last year?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Yes, I think on average, you'll see that, because of the big trend we made across last year, where we kind of went from notionally 45% or so of the rigs as we came into the year, doing dry gas and now we're down to about one-third on the gas side, two-thirds on the liquids. As you balance that out across the full year, you would, of course, see on average year-to-year more rigs associated with the liquids. We continue to optimize the whole rig fleet. But in terms of what the total rig count would be, that would be hard to say right now, because again, we've just gotten the Denbury deal done and we're looking at that and thinking about what we want to do and looking at some of the other aspects of our unconventional liquids program in North America. But we will be actively pursuing those resources and working hard on the development, but I just can't give you a specific rig count just yet.

PAUL CHENG: Okay. Thank you.

OPERATOR: That concludes today's question and answer session. Mr. Rosenthal, at this time, I will turn the conference back to you for any additional or closing remarks.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: I'd just like to thank everybody for your participation on the call today and all your questions. We certainly are looking forward to our meeting in March and having the opportunity to talk more about our results and our plans for the future and so we'll see you then. Thank you all very much.

OPERATOR: That concludes today's conference. Thank you for your participation.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
exxn : Exxon Mobil Corporation
   IN
i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1300003 : Crude Petroleum Extraction | iextra : Natural Gas/Oil Extraction
   NS
c151 : Earnings | m143 : Energy Markets | ntra : Transcript | crecal : Product Recalls | c15 : Performance | c26 : Product Safety | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | m14 : Commodity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020130215e921004bm
  


 HD
 Q2  2012  Exxon  Mobil Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
9,203 words
   PD
26 July 2012
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©012 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day, and welcome to the ExxonMobil Corporation's second quarter 2012 earnings conference call. As a reminder, today's conference is being recorded. At this time for opening remarks, I would like to turn the call over to the Vice President of Investor Relations and Secretary, Mr. David Rosenthal. Please go ahead, sir.

   TD
DAVID ROSENTHAL, VP, IR AND SECRETARY, EXXON MOBIL CORP: Good morning, and welcome to ExxonMobil's second quarter earnings call and webcast. The focus of this call is ExxonMobil's financial and operating results for the second quarter of 2012. I will refer to the slides that are available through the Investor section of our website. Before we go further, I would like to draw your attention to our customary cautionary statement shown on slide two.

Moving to slide three, we provide an overview of some of the external factors impacting our result. Global economic growth slowed in the second quarter primarily due to continued weakness in Europe. The US and Japanese economies are also expected to show declines from first quarter levels. China growth, while still robust, continues to weaken from prior-year levels. Energy markets were mixed in the second quarter with lower crude oil and natural gas prices while industry refining margins increased from the first quarter Although US chemical margins remain strong, Europe and Asia commodity margins continued at near-bottom of cycle conditions.

Turning now to the second quarter financial results as shown on slide 4, ExxonMobil's second quarter 2012 earnings were $15.9 billion, an increase of $5.2 billion from the second quarter of 2011. Second quarter earnings included a net impact of $7.5 billion associated with divestments and one-time tax related items. Earnings per share for the quarter were $3.41, up $1.23 from a year ago. The Corporation distributed $7.7 billion to shareholders in the second quarter through dividends and share purchases to reduce shares outstanding. Of that total, $5 billion was distributed to purchase shares. Share purchases to reduce shares outstanding are expected to be $5 billion in the third quarter of 2012.

CapEx in the second quarter was $9.3 billion, down 9% from the second quarter of 2011 primarily due to the absence of acquisitions made in the second quarter of last year. Our cash generation remains strong with $13.9 billion in cash flow from operations and asset sales. At the end of the second quarter of 2012, cash totaled $18 billion, and debt was $15.6 billion.

The next slide provides additional detail on second quarter sources and uses of funds. Over the quarter, cash decreased from $19.1 billion to $18 billion. The combined impact of strong earnings, depreciation expense, working capital, and the benefit of our ongoing asset management program yielded $13.9 billion of cash flow from operations and asset sales. The $9.6 billion in working capital and other primarily reflects eliminations of gains on asset sales, increased working capital, and tax items. Uses included additions to plants, property, and equipment, or PP&E of $8.3 billion and shareholder distributions of $7.7 billion. Additional financing and investing activities increased our cash by $1 billion.

Moving on to slide 6 and a review of our segmented results. ExxonMobil's second quarter 2012 earnings of $15.9 billion increased $5.2 billion, or 49% from the second quarter of 2011 primarily due to gains from asset sales, partly offset by one-time tax items. Upstream earnings decreased $183 million while downstream earnings improved by $5.3 [million]. Chemical earnings were up $128 million, and corporate and financing expenses were flat. Corporate and financing expenses remain within our continued guidance of $500 million to $700 million per quarter. As a shown on slide 7, ExxonMobil's second quarter 2012 earnings increased by $6.5 billion compared with the first quarter of 2012.

Moving next to second quarter business highlights and beginning on slide 8, we continue to advance our global portfolio of high quality upstream projects. In Angola, the Kizomba satellites phase one project achieved first oil in May ahead of schedule. The initial phase has a peak production capacity of 100,000 gross barrels of oil per day and will recover a total of approximately 250 million barrels from the Mavacola and Clochas fields. The development is located 95 miles off the coast of Angola in water depths of approximately 4,500 feet. Phase one of the project includes 18 wells with subsea tie-backs to the existing Kizomba A and B floating production storage and offloading vessels thus optimizing the capabilities of on-block facilities to increase current production levels without requiring an additional FPSO vessel.

In Nigeria, we completed the installation of three wellhead platforms as part of the Nigeria satellites project. These are the first offshore platform structures to be fully constructed in Nigeria. The project is on schedule to start up in late 2012 with peak capacity of 70,000 gross barrels per day. We also completed the installation of the Arkutun Dagi gravity-based structure offshore Sakhalin Island in Russia. We're currently progressing pipeline tie-ins with topsides installation scheduled for 2013. The project will have a peak production capacity of 90,000 gross barrels per day and is on schedule to start up in 2014.

Construction is also progressing at the Papua New Guinea LNG project which remains on schedule for a 2014 start-up. The entire 250-mile offshore pipeline has been installed and over 105 miles, or approximately 60%, of the onshore portion of the main gas pipeline have been welded. At the LNG plant, pipe racks and heavy equipment are being installed on the process trains and piling on the jetty is complete. Additionally, mobilization and commissioning of the first two new drill rigs was ongoing during the quarter. The second rig is being mobilized to [hide] with drilling expected to begin later this year. Also during the quarter, two rigs begin drilling in Hadrian North in the Gulf of Mexico to further appraise the resource. The results from these wells will be incorporated into the overall development plan. Finally, the Kearl initial development project is now 94% complete. All modules have been transported from the United States, and integration of the modules into the plant facilities is progressing. The project is on schedule to start up later this year.

Turning now to slide 9, we continue to make progress on our strategic cooperation agreement with Rosneft. In June, we signed agreements with Rosneft to jointly develop tight oil reserves in Western Siberia and establish an Arctic research center for offshore development. This agreement combines the strengths of our two companies. ExxonMobil's technology leadership in tight oil and unconventional resources development and Rosneft's direct knowledge and experience of Western Siberia's geology and conventional production. In the near future, we will develop a work program for selected Rosneft license blocks which will include geological studies and drilling with drilling planned as early as next year. A pilot program will be established to determine the technical feasibility of developing these reserves.

The Arctic research center will provide a full range of services to support all stages of our joint venture oil and gas development on the Arctic shelf including ice monitoring and management, logistics, and the design of ice-resistant offshore vessels, structures, and Arctic pipelines. Safety standards will be a priority for the center which will have its own special marine incident warning and prevention center. In addition, we progressed joint expiration activities in the Black Sea where seismic acquisition is now complete. We remain on schedule to commence seismic acquisition in the Kara Sea later this year. Exploration drilling is expected to begin in the 2014, 2015 time frame as soon as prospect mapping is complete and a rig is contracted.

Turning now to conventional exploration on slide 10. In the quarter, we achieved continued success in our conventional exploration portfolio. In Tanzania, we drilled a second exploration well with our partner, Statoil. As indicated by the operator, this well has confirmed a discovery of approximately 2 trillion cubic feet of recoverable gas. This follows our first exploration well on the block, which discovered approximately 5 trillion cubic feet of recoverable gas. We also made a gas discovery on acreage in Northwestern Papua New Guinea and have commenced drilling of a second well in the Highlands. This exploration activity is designed to support expansion studies for a third train at our Papua New Guinea LNG project.

Also during the quarter, we drilled our third well in Vietnam which encountered additional gas. Results from this well are being evaluated. In light of the encouraging results in Romania, planning for further exploration activity is underway. We expect to begin acquisition of a new 3-D survey on the Neptune license by year-end. And finally, we were high bidder on 22 blocks in the recent central US Gulf of Mexico lease sale.

Moving on to slide 11. We continue to advance our growing portfolio of high potential, unconventional assets and liquids-rich plays like the Bakken, the Woodford-Ardmore and the Neuquen Basin in Argentina. In the Bakken, we have moved into a development phase across our roughly 400,000 net acre leasehold. In the first half of 2012, we turned 40 wells to sales, nearly double the pace of 2011. In the second quarter of 2012, our gross operated Bakken production increased by 60% over the prior-year quarter. Since our entry into the play, we have more than doubled gross operated production to approximately 32,000 oil equivalent barrels per day.

In the Woodford shale in the Ardmore Basin, we completed a strategic bolt-on acquisition, adding 58,000 acres of leasehold and just over 4,000 oil equivalent barrels per day of production. This brings our total Woodford-Ardmore acreage to approximately 260,000 net acres and expands our resource potential beyond the 600 million oil equivalent barrels previously estimated. In the second quarter, we utilized 10 rigs to delineate our acreage, evaluate optimal well spacing, and continue development activities.

Moving to South America, we have drilled two exploration wells in Argentina's Neuquen Basin. Testing of the first well is underway. The second well is scheduled to be completed and tested in the third quarter. A third exploration well is also planned to spud during the third quarter. Our efforts are currently concentrated on defining the resource potential of our more than 800,000 net acre leasehold.

Turning now to slide 12, on the North American chemical growth project. During the quarter ExxonMobil Chemical filed permit applications to progress plans for a world-scale petrochemical expansion at our integrated Baytown, Texas complex. The project includes a new ethane cracker with up to 1.5 million tons per annum of ethylene capacity which will feed two new 650,000 tons per year premium polyethylene lines situated at the nearby Mont Belvieu plastics plant. The proposed expansion capitalizes on the abundant and growing supply of North American natural gas liquids to economically supply the rapidly growing global demand for high-performance polyethylene products. These metallocene-based premium resins deliver sustainability benefits such as lighter packaging weight, lower energy consumption, and reduced emissions. Required government reviews and approvals are expected to take about one year. After which, ExxonMobil will make a final investment decision. If progressed, a 2016 start-up would be anticipated.

Turning now to the Saudi elastomers project on slide 13. During the quarter, the Kemya 50/50 joint venture partners, Saudi Basic Industries Corporation and ExxonMobil, announced the decision to proceed with construction of the specialty elastomers project at Al Jubail, Saudi Arabia. This continues a long history of ExxonMobil investment in the kingdom and represents a significant broadening of Kemya's product portfolio. The facility will have the capacity to produce up to 400,000 tons per year of specialty products including synthetic rubber, thermal plastic specialty polymers, and carbon black to serve local markets, the Middle East, and Asia. Project completion is expected in 2015.

Turning now to the Upstream financial and operating results and starting on slide 14. Upstream earnings in the second quarter were $8.4 billion, down $183 million from the second quarter of 2011. Realizations decreased earnings by $870 million due primarily to lower crude oil and US natural gas realizations which declined by more than $8 per barrel and $2 per thousand cubic feet, respectively. Production mix and volume effects negatively impacted earnings by $330 million due mainly to the impact of lower entitlement volumes, base decline, and divestments, partly offset by the ramp-up of Nigeria and Angola projects. All other items, primarily gains from asset divestments and lower exploration expense, partly offset by one-time tax items and higher production operating expenses increased earnings by $1 billion. Upstream after tax earnings per barrel for the second quarter of 2012 were $22.12.

Moving to slide 15, oil equivalent volumes decreased by 5.6% from the second quarter of last year mainly due to the impact of lower entitlement volumes, decline, and divestments. Volumes were positively impacted by the ramp-up of projects in Nigeria and Angola and less downtime. Excluding the impacts of entitlement volumes, OPEC quota effects, and divestments, production was essentially flat.

Turning now to the sequential comparison and starting on slide 16. Upstream earnings increased by $556 million versus the first quarter of 2012. Lower crude oil and natural gas realizations negatively impacted earnings by more than $700 million as crude oil realizations decreased by more than $10 per barrel, and average gas realizations decreased by $0.60 per thousand cubic feet. Production mix and volume effects decreased earnings by $480 million due to a decline in seasonal gas demand in Europe, base decline, and lower entitlement volumes, partly offset by the ramp-up of projects in Nigeria and Angola. Other items, including gains from asset divestments, lower exploration expense, and favorable ForEx, partly offset by one-time tax items, increased earnings by $1.8 billion.

Moving now to slide 17. Oil equivalent volumes were down 8.8% from the first quarter of 2012, resulting from a decrease in seasonal gas demand in Europe, base decline, and lower entitlement volumes, partly offset by the ramp-up of projects in Nigeria and Angola. Excluding the impacts of entitlement volumes, OPEC quota effects, and divestments, production was down 7.6%. Year-to-date, oil equivalent volumes decreased 5.5% compared to the first six months of 2011.

First half 2012 volumes associated with the 3% full-year decline outlook provided at the Analysts' meeting in March, are shown on slide 18. Operational performance was slightly ahead of plan, benefiting from the early start-up of the Nigeria Usan and Angola satellites projects and strong base performance. First half 2012 prices, most notably in February through April, were higher than our March Analysts' meeting outlook basis of $111 Brent and negatively affected first half volumes due to both permanent and price-related entitlements. In the second half of 2012, successful start-up of several projects and continued strong base performance will support our 2012 volumes.

Moving now to the Downstream financial and operating results and starting on slide 19. Downstream earnings in the second quarter were $6.6 billion, up $5.3 billion from the second quarter of 2011. The driver for the increase was a $5.3 billion gain associated with the Japan restructuring which was completed on June 1. This gain was partly offset by unfavorable ForEx effects, one-time tax items, and increased maintenance activities. Improved refining margins, mainly in the US and Europe, increased earnings by $650 million.

Moving to slide 20. Sequentially, second quarter Downstream earnings increased by $5.1 billion primarily due to the Japan restructuring and improved refining margins, partly offset by ForEx effects, increased refinery maintenance, and one-time tax items, and the absence of first quarter gains on asset sales.

Turning now to the Chemical financial and operating results starting on slide 21. Second quarter chemical earnings were $1.4 billion, up $130 million versus the second quarter of 2011. Margins decreased earnings by $150 million as lower commodity margins were only partly offset by improved specialty margins. Volume and mix effects decreased earnings by $100 million, mainly reflecting weaker demand in Europe. Other factors increased earnings by $380 million, which includes $630 million associated with the Japan restructuring, partly offset by unfavorable ForEx effects.

Moving to slide 22. Sequentially, second quarter Chemical earnings increased by $750 million, mainly associated with the Japan restructuring. Stronger margins increased earnings by $160 million, primarily due to lower feedstock costs. Volume and mix effects decreased earnings by $70 million, mainly due to weaker demand in Europe.

Finally, moving to slide 23, ExxonMobil's second quarter financial and operating performance reflects the ability of our business model and competitive advantages to deliver strong results. As we continue to focus on operational excellence, deploy high impact technologies, and leverage our unparalleled global integration, ExxonMobil remains well positioned to maximize long-term shareholder value. That concludes my prepared remarks. I would now be happy to take your questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: Thank you, Mr. Rosenthal.

(Operator Instructions)

Doug Terreson, ISI.

DOUG TERRESON, ANALYST, ISI GROUP: My question is on foreign exchange effects, asset sales, and tax items, and specifically, whether or not you have functional and geographical quantification on those items in Q2? There was a pretty large lump in the quarter, and just wanted to see if we could get a little color and segmentation?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Let me -- why don't I start with the items in the $7.5 million. $7.5 billion, I'm sorry. The primary item in there was $6.5 billion associated with the Japan restructuring. The segmentation of that $6.5 billion was $5.3 billion in Japan -- I mean, in the Downstream, $600 million in Chemical, $400 million in Corporate and Fin, and about $100 million in the Upstream. The balance of the $7.5 billion really related to gains on asset sales in the Upstream, primarily Angola Block 31 and a number of tax-related items.

DOUG TERRESON: Also, in [E&P] Business, there is commentary that several of the major integrated gas projects in Australia face cost over-runs. That is, unless budget contingencies were appropriate at the time. I wanted to get your insight into transient investment performance versus budget in Australia because Exxon has been in the country for many years and given that you have significant holdings besides the integrated gas, you obviously hold a unique perspective. Any trends that you could highlight or provide insight into would be appreciated?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: I will make a general comment, and then for specific project updates, I would recommend that you talk to the operator of any specific project. In general, over the last couple of years, we have seen some foreign exchange issues with the Australian dollar as well as across the board there have been upward cost pressures on labor, and I think those have been well documented in the industry. Other than that, that is all part of normal project management for us, and you have to find ways to offset those.

I think the important things on some of these large projects, in addition to cost management, is to ensure that the project stays on schedule and comes up on time. That generally is the focus. But again, if you had a specific project in mind, I would recommend you ask the operator for any specific update.

OPERATOR: Ed Westlake, Credit Suisse.

ED WESTLAKE, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Just two quick questions. Firstly, buybacks. Obviously, you're still maintaining the $5 billion. You did get good sources and uses of cash from acquisitions, and [Dragi] in Europe is making comments which is helping the oil price. If we do see a slowdown, how do you think about the rate of buybacks being appropriate? And, if the earnings don't support the buybacks, do you see enough disposals in the pipeline to compensate?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Ed, I really wouldn't want to comment or provide any guidance on forward expectations with regard to allocation of funds. Other than to say there is no change in our ongoing view of that, and as you know, our first priority is fund all of our attractive investment opportunities. After that, it is to pay a growing dividend, and you will recall we did raise the dividend 21% earlier this year.

After that, it's the share buyback to maintain our capital structure and return excess cash to the shareholders. No change in our approach, and we will see as the year goes along to how the cash flows turn out given the conditions in the markets. But, no change in our approach.

ED WESTLAKE: Just a specific one on the operations. Asia gas volumes have been pretty steady for a number of quarters until the second quarter of 2012. Was that maintenance? Or, is that a PSC effect in terms of a tranche kicking in somewhere?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Let me provide a little more clarity on that because your question also gets to the main factor if you look at our volume [recs] and you look at the entitlement effects that you saw there. Really the impact is seen in Qatar -- and, I want you to know that unlike the RasGas and Qatar gas LNG trains, the AKG project, which as you know, supports domestic gas sales -- does operate under a development and production sharing agreement.

During the quarter, that project became cost-current, and that did impact both the volumes that you see in the region that we noted as well as the entitlement volumes that we talked about. As far as performance, performance is expected in the region and all of the countries there in the assets that we operate. Again, the real impact is AKG becoming cost-current.

ED WESTLAKE: It is fair to think about domestic prices being lower than the other projects so that would have a lesser impact on cash flow than the [headline] production?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Yes, that's would be a correct assumption.

OPERATOR: Doug Leggate, Bank of AmericaMerrill Lynch.

DOUG LEGGATE, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: I wanted to go back to one of the events during the quarter which was your official exit from Poland, and I really just wanted to get your updated prognosis on shale gas in Europe generally? And, where I'm going with this is, as one of the biggest producers, obviously, in northwest Europe, what are the implications for you gravitating back toward exports of LNG in the lower 48? And, I have a follow-up, please.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Those are two distinctly different questions. When we look at Poland, we did drill and complete and test two wells, one in each of the two basins that we were in there. We did not have any demonstrated, sustained commercial hydrocarbon flow from either of those two wells. We have decided to end our exploration activities in Poland at this time.

As you look across Europe, there a number of other opportunities and a number of other countries that people are looking at, including ourselves. I wouldn't draw any conclusions in any one country or across Europe. It is early days. We have said often as you look around the world at all of the unconventional resource opportunities, they are all different. They're all in the early stages of evaluation, and it is going to take some time to figure that out.

I will mention, because we haven't talked about it in a little while, our holdings in Germany. As you know, we have a very large acreage position in Germany, and we continue to want to actively explore that. As you know, we've had some permitting issues there over the last year or so that has held that program up.

I can tell you that the expert dialogue group that has been studying this issue for a while has reported their findings, and like many other similar studies and findings across the world including the US, this group did not see any fundamental environmental or other risk aspects that would argue against the exploration and production of natural gas from unconventional reservoirs.

With that study out, we are in the process now of working on getting our -- working with the regulators, particularly in the local areas and the community at large to progress our exploration plans and get the permits necessary to progress. Again, I think every country is different. Every unconventional resource opportunity is different, and it would be tough to make any geographic conclusions at this time.

If we switch over to the potential for LNG exports out of North America, we are continuing to study those options both in the US and in Canada. As you know, we have vast unconventional holdings in both of those locations. We have a lot of optionality, a lot of flexibility. We do have some assets in the ground already to import LNG. We are continuing to study all of that and look at our options and the economics, and more on that as time goes on.

DOUG LEGGATE: I was thinking that outlook for European gas would impact your US decision. That's why I thought it was one question. I will try a second. A very quick follow-up. Doug Terreson's second half of his question? You didn't give the FX or the tax impacts by division? If you could, that would be really helpful.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Let me first give you the foreign exchange impacts, if you are looking the second quarter of '12 versus the second quarter of '11, we had about a negative $200 million delta on ForEx in the Downstream and another -- .

DOUG LEGGATE: Excuse me, I apologize for interrupting. Could you give us the absolute as opposed to the delta? Is that possible?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: I don't actually have the absolute number, Ed. Or, Doug, I'm sorry. The deltas -- again, I think if you're just looking in the [recs], it is $200 million negative in the Downstream and $200 million in Chemical. But, I don't have the absolutes.

OPERATOR: Evan Calio, Morgan Stanley.

EVAN CALIO, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: A question on Kearl. I know you mentioned the project start-up in the back half of the year. How should we expect volumes in 3Q and 4Q? And, what is the volumetric ramp there in the start-up? And then, somewhat related, I believe that 50% goes to Exxon's refiners and then 50% into the market. I guess we should assume that you'll feed your own refiners first? And, is there any feedstock change in your system as a result of that?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Let me hit the status of the project first. It is progressing very well. As I mentioned, we are 94% complete. I got the modules in place that were in the US, and we're progressing toward a late start-up. That start-up is probably a December start-up. So, our intention is to ramp up to 110,000 barrels per day of production from that. To give you a quarterly number, or a specific timing, would be real difficult because again, if you are not going to start up until December -- it will not have a huge impact.

EVAN CALIO: What is the expected trajectory to either gross, that 110,000 gross?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: We will be ramping that up. Obviously, from the time we start up into the next year. I don't have a specific ramp-up profile. Other than to say, as safely as possible and with the operations running, we'll ramp up to that 110,000 as quickly as possible. But, I don't have a specific timeline for you right now.

EVAN CALIO: On the feedstock question.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Yes. The first thing I would say is, I wouldn't necessarily say we have a 50/50 mix of what is going to our refineries versus what is going to go into the market. The other part of your comment is correct, we will optimize, in general, the placement of those barrels, but certainly having the flexibility of our own refineries in Canada as well in the Midwest, we'll be able to optimize those first and then put the balance in the barrels.

That will change depending on the market, which as you know, has been fairly volatile recently. And so, if I gave you a split today that may or may not be the split six months ago, but you are certainly spot-on with your comment about us optimizing first into our refineries and then the balance going into the market so that we can maximize the value of all the barrels, really across the whole refining circuit.

EVAN CALIO: If I may, just one other question. Thanks for the update on the LNG project, and it sounds like you are really moving along well there. Can you remind us of how much gas, excluding these recent discoveries, is behind that development? And, whether -- are further discoveries necessary for potential expansion opportunities there?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: If you look at -- first, if you look at the trains, those are two 6.6 trains with start-up in 2014, and as I recall, the total resource backing that up is about nine Tcf.

EVAN CALIO: You need additional discoveries likely to expand, right?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Yes. That is what I said earlier that two things are going on. We are certainly studying the opportunity for a third train, and the positive news is, we are having exploration success this year in drilling some wells. We have an active exploration program ongoing with a lot of additional acreage that we have available to us.

It's a positive story with the deal we have got going in the ground now. It's a positive story on the exploration front so we will continue to focus on getting what we have up and running while studying for further expansion and optimization.

OPERATOR: Paul Cheng, Barclays.

PAUL CHENG, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Two quick questions. In the -- you have been quite active in drilling in the Gulf of Mexico and have good success. Are you now all set with all of your rig requirements for the next, say, one or two years? Or, that you may need additional equipment there?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: If you look at what we are doing now in the Gulf of Mexico, probably the biggest thing we have got going right now is the two wells that we are drilling simultaneously at Hadrian North as we continue to look at that resource. As we go on through the year, we are looking at the possibility of another well in the Gulf before year-end.

Without talking about a specific rig line or what is contracted and what is not, what I could tell you is we do have flexibility around the rig fleet. We are planning for a sustained exploration program, and when we look at the opportunities and rig availabilities and the assets that we have under contract, I think we are well positioned to progress the program. I do not see any constraints or any holdups in terms of equipment availability.

PAUL CHENG: Dave, is your current rig -- the contract extend into 2013 and '14? Or, there is expanding this year?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Paul, I really would not want to comment specifically on rigs and lease arrangements and that sort of thing. Those are all part of the commercial nature of the business. I really would not want to get into any specifics on that.

PAUL CHENG: The second question -- I have to apologize, it's probably due to my ignorance. Given the low natural gas price over the last 12 months in the US, if the natural gas price stays at say, the $2-$3 per Mcf range, is there a circumstance that would force you to look at your proven reserves booking from the XTO? And also, are there any way down for [separating]? Or, how does the accounting work from that standpoint?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Paul, if we step back just a little bit, obviously, that is a very large resource that we acquired in the XTO acquisition. Some of it is booked to proved reserves, but a whole lot of it is really in the resource base. When you look at prices and the volatility of those prices and what is going on, I don't think when you look at our outlook going forward, that we see ourselves really getting into the issues that you are talking about without getting into any specifics on accounting and reserve reporting. I am confident that if you look at that resource and what we have got booked now and the conservative nature with which we tend book [proved] reserves, I'm not expecting there to be any issues in that area.

PAUL CHENG: Should we assume that the ceiling test you would be allowed to use your own internal long-term price deck?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Yes, if you look at that ceiling test, as far as I know, you do use your own long-term expectation for those prices.

OPERATOR: Blake Fernandez, Howard Weil.

BLAKE FERNANDEZ, ANALYST, HOWARD WEIL INCORPORATED: I had a couple of questions for you on two different projects. One is back to the Gulf of Mexico on Julia. I know there were some issues with the government a while back. As I understand, you have worked that out, and you have now retained the block. Can you just give us an update on -- if I recall it seemed to be a fairly large discovery. Any update on timing and activity out there?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Sure, I'd be happy to give you an update on that. As you know, we did drill that first exploration well in 2007. It was successful. We did have some issues with the Department of Interior around that license. I can confirm the comment that you made, yes, those issues have been resolved.

In fact, if I look across the second quarter, we are working on the development plans for that. In fact, we are really progressing the technical validation program at this time and front-end engineering and development. Late in the quarter, we did play some initial long lead equipment items.

If you look at the whole broader schedule, we are progressing as rapidly as is appropriate. Again, we are already in the process of ordering long lead programs, working on the development plan, and the evacuation plan. That project is progressing.

BLAKE FERNANDEZ: The other one was actually on Tanzania. It sounds like you have got about seven Tcf discovered to date. I am wondering for one, how much you need in order to justify development? And secondly, my understanding is the government will not approve multiple developments so it's almost a bit of a race to see who is going have the first move or advantage? I'm just curious if there is any update on your activity there?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Let me hit the first question on the results in Tanzania. That has been, to date, a very successful exploration effort for us. We have said that the first well looks like we got about five Tcf of developable reserves there. In the second well, it looks like we have got about two Tcf. So, for a total of seven Tcf.

I can tell you we are continuing with our exploration activities. We've got some additional seismic going on this year and may even put another well down before the end of the year. That is all going very well. I wouldn't want to give a specific number in terms of what is required for an LNG project because it could have multiple aspects to developing that and so I would not want to give a specific number there.

In terms of the race to get a project underway, I am not aware of any constraints on that program. It is still early days in that whole area of East Africa. As you know, there has been a tremendous amount out of activity and some successful discoveries, but to start discussing order of projects and who gets there first and that sort of thing -- I think it would probably be premature to talk about that.

OPERATOR: Faisel Khan, Citi.

FAISEL KHAN, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: I'm wondering if you could elaborate a little bit more on what is going on with US natural gas production? It looks like it peaked about four Bcf a day in the fourth quarter of last year, and it has been coming down steadily. I'm wondering if that is the function of your shift in rig count in the lower 48?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: It is a number factors. You have to start at the top of that with base decline across the conventional resources, and the decline that we're seeing there. That is going to be partly offset by the increases in unconventional gas production. As you pointed out, we have seen a shift, and that shift continues in our rig count to the liquids-rich plays.

The program itself is as I described before. We are managing across the entire portfolio which does include continuing to delineate, appraise, and evaluate the dry gas areas while at the same time focusing the drilling on the liquids-rich plays.

The other thing that we have had in there, we have had some divestments. You might recall we had one in the Gulf of Mexico a year or so ago, and that would decline -- would have an impact there. It is really a combination of decline, divestments, some shifting of rigs. And then, offset by the production increase that we have seen in the unconventional resources at XTO.

FAISEL KHAN: I believe at the Analyst meeting you talked about how you were running maybe just under 70 rigs. I'm not sure if that is still the right number or not. It seems like had shifted to 50% of those rigs were now drilling in liquids-rich plays. Can you give us an update on where you are with that mix and rig count?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Yes, sure. We have continued to both reduce the absolute number of rigs running. I think we averaged about 57 across the quarter. We are currently at about 51 rigs in total. Without giving a specific percentage, I can tell you the majority of those rigs are working on liquids and liquids-rich plays, and that obviously would be a continuation of the trend that you have seen over the last few quarters.

FAISEL KHAN: Last question for me, on slide 16 where you talk about the first quarter to second quarter progression of earnings for Upstream. The $1.76 billion Other -- I believe you said part of that was Angola and part of it was favorable FX. Was the FX movement -- was that an absolute number? Or, was there a big change quarter to quarter because of something in the first quarter?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: No, again it was kind of small. It was less than $100 million. That would be the change quarter on quarter. Within that bar, it is not a big effect either way.

OPERATOR: Pavel Molchanov, Raymond James.

PAVEL MOLCHANOV, ANALYST, RAYMOND JAMES & ASSOCIATES: Two related questions about Rosneft, if I can. First one is, as you know, Rosneft has publicly said they are talking to BP about the potential TNK acquisition. If that happens, how do you see that changing your relationship with them? Second question on the same point, has Exxon contemplated buying the TNK-BP stake?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Actually, my answer would be the same to both of those questions. I really couldn't provide any comment on either what others in the industry are doing or anything that we might have going on and are thinking about.

OPERATOR: John Herrlin, Societe Generale.

JOHN HERRLIN, ANALYST, SOCIETE GENERALE: Unconventional liquids was about 5% or 6% of the US oil production -- or liquids production. How big do you want to make that on the going-forward basis? How large a ramp should we anticipate?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: That is a question I really couldn't answer because I have no idea what the forward projections are going to look like. Obviously, there is a lot of activity, a lot of plays. We are certainly heavily involved both, as I mentioned, in the ramp-up of our existing fields like we have at the Bakken, but also in the pursuit and capture of a number of attractive acreage holdings like we mentioned in the Woodford-Ardmore and the Utica.

From an ExxonMobil perspective, I can tell you as we move out of these delineation, appraisal, and evaluation programs into full development, you will continue to see the ramp-up that I mentioned in my prepared remarks, particularly in places like the Bakken and in some of the other areas.

We don't have a target, and I couldn't give you a target for the industry. It is really just going to depend on how quickly these new opportunities that us and others are finding you can get in and get those online. And then, of course, you need the midstream infrastructure to evacuate those volumes and get them to market, and to the extent that you are producing NGLs, there is other midstream infrastructure that has to be put in to process those.

There is a lot of opportunity, a lot of nice ramp-up across the board as you mentioned, but it would certainly be hard for me to give you any indication on what kind of an ultimate target might be either for us or the industry in general.

JOHN HERRLIN: Thanks, I was only asking about Exxon, but thanks, David.

OPERATOR: Iain Reid, Jefferies.

IAIN REID, ANALYST, JEFFERIES & COMPANY: A couple of questions. Firstly, in thinking about your US onshore operations at the moment. Have you got an updated number for either capital employed in US onshore? Or, return on capital employed which we're generating at the moment?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: No, we don't typically give that level of detail, Iain, so I would not have either the capital employed number or the return on that.

IAIN REID: Second question is about dividends. You obviously made a pretty substantial increase in your dividend payments. I just wonder when you're thinking about that, how do you factor in potential changes in dividend taxes -- withholding taxes in the US? Is that something you think about? Or, is this a more fundamental change or increase you have made?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: I wouldn't want to -- a number of factors, as you would guess, go into the whole decision-making process about the allocation of cash and that sort of thing. Though I wouldn't want to comment on any one specific factor or even to speculate ultimately what the tax situation might look like or changes that we might see in the upcoming several months. Again, a number of factors we think about. We don't try to speculate a whole lot about the future from the standpoint that you mentioned so really wouldn't have a specific comment on that.

IAIN REID: Was there something investors were pressuring you to look at rather than as a kind of add-on to the existing share buyback? Was that part of the rationale?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: We spend a lot of time talking to our investors about a number of things. Dividends are one, share buybacks are another. Not all of the investors are interested or have a weighting to any one particular disposition over another. Some have one preference, and others have another.

We do spend some time looking at the competitiveness of both our total distributions and the breakout of those, and we do look at that. In particular on a specific input or a specific factor in the analysis, I wouldn't give any weighting to one over the other. We do spend time taking all the factors into consideration, and of course, that includes input we get directly from our shareholders.

IAIN REID: Last question for me is on Vietnam. You proved up quite a substantial amount of gas now there with these three wells following on from last year's discovery. Any numbers you want to share with us about what level of reserves you proved up? You gave us, obviously, something on Tanzania, and maybe you can also talk about the forward program on that?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Sure. I can tell you we are not as far along in assessing what we have in Vietnam as we were in Tanzania. We're still evaluating the wells there. We had one well that was not successful and two that were. We are still in the early days of looking at that. We have got a lot of work to do. A lot of evaluation to do, and to assess that, we are looking at additional seismic and other exploration activity. A little early to start giving you resource numbers at this time.

OPERATOR: Paul Sankey, Deutsche Bank.

PAUL SANKEY, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Apologies, I'm traveling today so I got on the call late. I did want to ask you about your specials and the way you declare them. I guess the question is, I completely don't understand why you'd [declare] those specials in the table of specials, but then immediately say there were a lot of specials.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Paul, let's talk just a minute about the term specials, and I think I can address your question. Really you have to think about two different considerations when you're talking about special items. The first that I would offer you is if you look at this from an ExxonMobil perspective, both asset divestments and acquisitions have become a normal part of our ongoing operations.

We talked at the Analysts' meeting in March about the level of divestments that we've had. If I just look across the last four or five years, I think we have had $26 billion in proceeds and about $11 billion in earnings. This is an ongoing piece of the business for us. Some quarters the numbers are larger than others, but in terms of divestments being a special, they are part of the business.

I think the other thing to consider is that the use of the term special items has in fact evolved over time driven in part by updated SEC guidance on the use of non-GAAP terms. We are certainly in compliance with that updated guidance and paying attention to it, and it has evolved over at the last few years. If you take those two factors into consideration, I think what we have reported here this quarter is consistent with both of those.

PAUL SANKEY: So, is that SEC definition a question of materiality then? Or, and I think the other (inaudible), David is that you continue to publish this table of zeros which just kind of seems inefficient, quite frankly. Can you just talk a bit more about what you're saying about the SEC? I understand your argument that the divestments are an ongoing part of your business, and therefore should not be considered special. I think that is fine. The SEC bit?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Without getting into the weeds here, I can tell you that it is not really a materiality look. It is really around the desire for the SEC for a company to not describe a charge or a gain as a non-recurring, infrequent, or unusual event unless it meets certain criteria, and that includes a look-back as well as a look-forward.

If you are looking back, and you have been doing this stuff in the past, and you look forward, and you think that you might have these type of events in the future, the SEC guidance is to not call those non-recurring, infrequent, unusual, special, or whatever term you want to use. Again, that has happened over time.

In terms of the table and efficiency, (laughter), I'll tell you, it is possible. I'm not saying that we'll never report a special item because we may. I am just saying that when we look at the guidance in our business, none of the earnings impacts that you saw in the quarter qualified to be, quote, special items.

PAUL SANKEY: I understand. If I could just follow up on Paul Cheng, and it's related. I think what you were saying that there would very unlikely be a write down related to XTO because I guess what you are implying is that your very conservative in booking what is essentially a very large resource?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: I think it's a couple of things, Paul. It is the conservative nature for which we book things to proved reserves, and it's also our outlook for natural gas prices. If you look broadly and look at our energy outlook, we don't have an outlook over the long-term that prices are going to remain at current levels, and that is consistent with our investment plans. It is consistent with our energy outlook, and it is really consistent with the long-term way that we are going about developing these resources.

PAUL SANKEY: I think I understand. I'm just wondering if the SEC, going back to that, allows you to use your own long-term planning assumptions for net gas prices in regards to bookings?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Yes, that is correct.

OPERATOR: Allen Good, Morningstar.

ALLEN GOOD, ANALYST, MORNINGSTAR: Just one quick question on lower 48 activity. It looks like you made pretty good progress in reducing the rig count there and moving toward liquids-rich plays. But, if we look back a year ago, you're at 70 rigs, and natural gas prices were at $4. Certainly, they've made quite a recovery off the lows we saw earlier this quarter, and whether they're sustainable or not is certainly a question.

Is the $4 level something to think about that Exxon may potentially return to gas drilling? Or, given the low base of rigs you are working off now, there certainly would have to be different conditions where you would revisit some of these gas plays which you've moved away from over the past six months?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: I think the answer to the question and what you are seeing us doing is really more reflective of our longer-term approach to this. We are still drilling in dry gas areas. We do continue to drill wells in order to work on our delineation and our evaluation of those plays to make sure that, again, over the long term, we want to be in a position to maximize the recovery and maximize the value generation from those resources. So, that has not changed.

What you have seen that we have talked about is both a reduction in the total rig count, and some of that, of course, is in response to the short-term pricing that's happened. In addition, the move of a lot of the rigs over to liquids and liquids-rich plays is really both to start to delineate and appraise and think about developing our new acreage like the Woodford-Ardmore. Again, as well as ramping up in the Bakken. In fact, I think I heard the other day, we're up to about 10 rigs in the Bakken out of those 51.

We really don't have a price trigger to any big extent. You might do something a little different at the margin in any given quarter depending on prices. When you really look at the overall plan and the overall strategy, it continues to be with a very long-term view of this very large, very high-quality resource we have got.

ALLEN GOOD: In the short term though, do you expect that 51 rig total you are currently running, is that enough to do everything you want to do as far as evaluating those plays? And, driving production out of liquids-rich plays? Or, could we see in the short term to see that rig count continue to fall?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: I really don't have an outlook for going forward for the rig count. We continue to progress the program, and we can see some variability around the number that I mentioned, but I really couldn't give you an outlook in terms of either direction or rig count specifically.

OPERATOR: It appears there are no further questions at this time. Mr. Rosenthal, I would like to turn the conference back to for any additional or closing remarks.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: I would just like to thank everybody on the call today, and thank you for your questions. We'll look forward to visiting you again next quarter. Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude today's conference call. Thank you for your participation.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
exxn : Exxon Mobil Corporation
   IN
i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1300003 : Crude Petroleum Extraction | iextra : Natural Gas/Oil Extraction
   NS
c151 : Earnings | m143 : Energy Markets | ntra : Transcript | crecal : Product Recalls | c15 : Performance | c26 : Product Safety | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | m14 : Commodity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020120809e87q005v8
  


 HD
 Q1  2012  Exxon  Mobil Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
10,650 words
   PD
26 April 2012
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©012 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Well, good day, everyone, and welcome to this ExxonMobil Corporation first quarter 2012 earnings conference call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time for opening remarks I would like to turn the call over to the Vice President of Investor Relations and Secretary, Mr. David Rosenthal. Please go ahead, sir.

   TD
DAVID ROSENTHAL, VP, IR AND SECRETARY, EXXON MOBIL CORP: Good morning and welcome to ExxonMobil's first quarter earnings call and webcast. The focus of this call is ExxonMobil's financial and operating results for the first quarter of 2012. I will refer to the slides that are available through the Investor section of our website. But before we go further, I would like to draw your attention to our customary cautionary statement shown on slide 2. Moving to slide 3, we provide an overview of some of the external factors impacting our results. Global economic growth slowed in the first quarter, primarily due to continued contraction in the European Union. The US and Japanese economies are also expected to show declines from fourth quarter levels. China growth, while still robust, was also lower in the first quarter. Energy markets were mixed in the first quarter with higher crude oil and non-US natural gas prices. Industry refining margins also improved from the fourth quarter. While US chemical margins remain strong, Europe and Asia continued at near bottom of cycle conditions.

Turning now to the first quarter financial results, as shown on slide 4, ExxonMobil's first quarter 2012 earnings, excluding special items, were $9.5 billion, a decrease of $1.2 billion from the first quarter of 2011. Our effective tax rate for the quarter was 49%. Earnings per share for the quarter, excluding special items, were $2, down $0.14 from a year ago. The Corporation distributed more than $7 billion to shareholders in the first quarter through dividends and share purchases to reduce shares outstanding. Of that total, $5 billion was distributed to purchase shares. Through the end of the first quarter 2012, we had repurchased the number of shares issued for XTO and total shares outstanding are now lower than they were prior to the acquisition. Yesterday, the Board of Directors declared a cash dividend of $0.57 per share, a 21% increase from the last quarter. Share purchases to reduce shares outstanding are expected to be $5 billion in the second quarter of 2012, unchanged from last quarter. CapEx in the first quarter was $8.8 billion, up 13% from the first quarter of 2011. Across our diverse portfolio, we continue to invest in robust projects through the business cycle to help meet global demand for crude oil, natural gas, and finished products while supporting economic growth, including job creation.

Our cash generation remains strong with $21.8 billion in cash flow from operations and asset sales. At the end of the first quarter of 2012, cash totaled $19.1 billion and debt was $15.7 billion. The next slide provides additional detail on first quarter sources and uses of funds. Over the quarter, cash increased from $13.1 billion to $19.1 billion, including cash on deposit associated with asset sales which have not yet closed and therefore are not yet reflected in earnings. The combined impact of strong earnings, depreciation expense, lower working capital, and the benefit of our ongoing asset management program yielded $21.8 billion of cash flow from operations and asset sales. Uses included additions to plant, property, and equipment, or PP&E, of $7.8 billion, and shareholder distributions of $7.2 billion. Additional financing and investing activities decreased our cash by $0.8 billion. Moving on to slide 6, and a review of our segmented results, ExxonMobil's first quarter 2012 earnings of $9.5 billion decreased $1.2 billion, or 11% from the first quarter of 2011. Upstream earnings decreased $873 million while downstream earnings improved by $487 million. Chemical earnings were down $815 million. Corporate and financing expenses were flat. Corporate and financing expenses remain within our continued guidance of $500 million to $700 million per quarter. As shown on slide 7, ExxonMobil's first quarter 2012 earnings were essentially flat compared with the fourth quarter of 2011.

Moving next to the first quarter business highlights, beginning on slide 8, we continue to advance our global portfolio of high-quality projects. The Kearl Initial Development project is now 90% complete and is on schedule to start up later this year with initial gross production of approximately 110,000 barrels per day. The initial fleet of haul trucks and shovels are on site and assembled and all pipelines are mechanically complete. In Angola, the Kizomba Satellites project remains on schedule for a mid-2012 start-up with peak capacity of 100,000 gross barrels of oil per day. The development design will optimize the capabilities of existing facilities, allowing for increased production levels without the investment in an additional floating production, storage, and offloading vessel. Onshore fabrication is complete, while FPSO modifications and subsea pipeline installation are expected to finish in the second quarter. In Nigeria, we completed construction of three wellhead platforms as part of the Nigeria Satellites project. The structures are currently being moved to the field site for installation. These are the first offshore platform structures to be fully constructed in Nigeria. The project is on schedule to start up in late 2012 with peak capacity of 70,000 gross barrels per day. Also in Nigeria, the Usan deepwater development achieved first oil in February, and has a production capacity of 180,000 gross barrels per day.

In Russia, construction is complete on the Arkutun-Dagi Gravity-Based Structure with float-out scheduled for later this year. The project remains on schedule for start-up in 2014. In March, ExxonMobil, along with our partners, finalized the Settlement Agreement with the state of Alaska regarding the Point Thompson unit, which enables the progression of the initial development phase of the Point Thompson project. The Settlement Agreement sets out the near-term development plan for the Point Thompson field. The initial production system will include processing capacity of 200 million cubic feet of natural gas per day and 10,000 barrels of condensate per day. Detailed engineering and purchasing of long lead equipment is currently underway. Pending approval of the draft environmental impact statement and other required permits, start-up of the initial phase at Point Thompson is anticipated in the first quarter of 2016. Alaska's North Slope holds more than 35 trillion cubic feet of discovered natural gas and Point Thompson is a key component to the development of this resource.

Turning now to slide 9, we continue to make progress on our strategic cooperation with Rosneft. Earlier this month, Rosneft and ExxonMobil signed a series of agreements to implement the long-term strategic cooperation agreement that our companies announced last August. The execution of these foundation agreements for our joint venture with Rosneft establishes the key terms for our cooperative exploration and development of the Kara Sea and the Black Sea. President-elect Putin also recently announced fiscal terms to encourage offshore development in Russia. These improved terms eliminate the export tax and lower the mineral extraction tax. The fiscal terms will be fixed at 15 years for the Kara Sea and 10 years for the Black Sea deepwater.

In addition, we commenced joint exploration activities in the Black Sea where seismic acquisition is now nearing completion. We are also planning for seismic acquisition in the Kara Sea for later this year. We expect to begin exploration drilling in the 2014 to 2015 timeframe, as soon as prospect mapping is complete, and a rig is contracted. Additionally, Rosneft will take equity in promising exploration and development projects in the United States and Canada, including the La Escalera Ranch project in the Delaware Basin in west Texas, and equity in the Harmattan acreage in the Cardium play of the Western Canada Basin in Alberta. Rosneft also has the opportunity to acquire a 30% interest in 20 blocks in the US Gulf of Mexico. In addition, Rosneft and ExxonMobil will jointly study tight oil production technologies in western Siberia.

Turning now to deepwater exploration on slide 10, ExxonMobil maintains a diverse and robust global deepwater portfolio which supports an active drilling program aimed at testing new play concepts, exploiting opportunities in proven basins, and drilling near field wildcats. For example, in Romania, we drilled a successful deepwater play test on the Neptune block in the Black Sea with the Deepwater Champion drillship. Following this encouraging play test, we are planning additional 3-D seismic data acquisition to support future drilling opportunities on the block. We also participated in an exploration well offshore Tanzania in first quarter, which discovered approximately 5 tcf of recoverable gas in a high-quality reservoir. A second exploration well is planned for second quarter 2012 to test another prospect on the block. We also maintain an active global unconventional exploration drilling program as discussed on slide 11.

In North America, we hold a material position in multiple unconventional plays across 8 million acres, and we continue to increase our lease holdings in emerging liquids rich plays like the Woodford Ardmore. Our acreage position in the Woodford Ardmore play tripled in 2011 to more than 170,000 acres, with acquisition costs on a per-acre basis roughly 50% below major industry acquisitions in the Eagle Ford play. In the first quarter, we entered into an agreement to purchase an additional 58,000 acres through a strategic acquisition, which will increase our total acreage position to more than 230,000 acres. This will further expand our position in a play where we already hold 170,000 net acres, with an estimated potential to recover 600 million oil equivalent barrels at an attractive unit development cost of approximately $10 per barrel. We continue to focus drilling activity to maximize the development of this liquids-rich play with 10 operated rigs. Current drilling is focused on delineating the acreage as well as determining optimal well spacing and drilling and completion practices. We also hold a large heritage position in tight oil plays in western Canada, including the Cardium and Viking plays. We are actively drilling in the Cardium and achieved first oil production in the fourth quarter of 2011. We are currently drilling in the Viking and have additional drilling planned this year to further delineate this tight oil resource.

Turning now to the upstream financial and operating results and starting on slide 12. Upstream earnings in the first quarter were $7.8 billion, down $873 million from the first quarter of 2011. Stronger crude oil and non-US natural gas realizations increased earnings by approximately $1.3 billion, as crude oil realizations increased by more than $13 a barrel, and non-US average gas realizations increased $1.27 per 1,000 cubic feet. However, the positive effects resulting from the increase in realizations were mitigated by a higher effective tax rate. A decrease in US natural gas realizations of $1.25 per 1,000 cubic feet also negatively impacted earnings by more than $300 million. Production mix and volume effects decreased earnings by $850 million due mainly to the impact of lower entitlement volumes at West Africa, base decline, and divestments, partly offset by the ramp-up of Angola and Iraq projects. Earnings were also negatively impacted by the unfavorable timing of liftings as we were underlifted in higher margin areas such as the North Sea and West Africa. All other items, primarily the absence of gains from asset divestments, combined with higher exploration and operating expenses, decreased earnings by $1 billion. Upstream after-tax earnings per barrel for the first quarter of 2012 were $18.83, reflecting the unfavorable mix impacts and higher effective tax rate.

Moving to slide 13, oil equivalent volumes decreased by more than 5% from the first quarter of last year, mainly due to the impact of lower entitlement volumes in West Africa, decline, and divestments. Volumes were positively impacted by the ramp-up of projects in Angola and Iraq and less downtime. Excluding the impact of higher prices on entitlement volumes, OPEC quota effects, and divestments, production was down about 1%. Turning now to slide 14, first quarter operational performance was consistent with plans, including the successful start-up of the Nigeria Usan development. Additional project start-ups expected in the second half of the year including Angola Satellites, Nigeria Satellites, and the Kearl Initial Development project are key to achieving our 2012 volumes outlook. Although seasonal factors, including demand and the timing of planned maintenance activities, will impact volume profiles during the year, we expect full-year volume performance to be consistent with our March outlook. Turning now to the sequential comparison, starting on slide 15.

Upstream earnings decreased by $1 billion versus the fourth quarter of 2011. Stronger crude oil realizations and non-US natural gas realizations positively impacted earnings by more than $300 million as crude oil realizations increased by more than $7 per barrel, and non-US average gas realizations increased $0.26 per 1,000 cubic feet. However, the positive effects resulting from the increase in realizations were mitigated by a higher effective tax rate. A decrease in US natural gas realizations of $0.70 per 1,000 cubic feet also negatively impacted earnings by $170 million. Production and mix effects, mainly higher natural gas volumes from stronger seasonal demand in Europe increased earnings by $100 million. Earnings were negatively impacted, however, by the unfavorable timing of liftings as we were underlifted in higher-margin West Africa. Other items, primarily the absence of gains from asset divestments, decreased earnings by more than $1.2 billion. Moving to slide 16, oil equivalent volumes were up slightly from the fourth quarter of 2011, as the impact of lower entitlement volumes in West Africa and divestments were more than offset by stronger seasonal gas demand in Europe. Excluding the impact of higher prices on entitlement volumes, OPEC quota effects and divestments, production was up almost 3%. For further data on regional volumes please refer to the press release and IR supplement.

Moving now to the downstream financial and operating results and starting on slide 17. Downstream earnings in the first quarter were $1.6 billion, up $487 million from the first quarter of 2011. Margin effects decreased earnings by $40 million. Continued benefits from our refining optimization activities contributed to the positive $210 million in volume and mix effects. Other factors, primarily higher gains on asset sales, increased earnings by $320 million. Moving to slide 18. Sequentially, first quarter downstream earnings increased by $1.2 billion. Improved industry refining margins contributed to increased earnings of $840 million. Volume and mix effects decreased earnings by $70 million. Other factors increased earnings by $390 million, largely due to higher gains on asset sales and favorable foreign exchange effects. Turning now to the chemical financial and operating results, and starting on slide 19. First quarter chemical earnings were $701 million, a decrease of $815 million versus the first quarter of 2011. Lower margins decreased earnings by $520 million, especially in Asia Pacific and Europe while volumes and mix effects were flat. Other factors decreased earnings by $300 million, reflecting higher planned maintenance expense and the absence of favorable tax items.

Moving to slide 20, sequentially, first quarter chemical earnings increased by $158 million, driven by stronger demand for specialty products. Margin effects increased earnings by $50 million. Volume and mix increased earnings by $60 million while all other items increased earnings a total of $50 million. While the first quarter continued to show cyclical weakness in Europe and Asia margins, ExxonMobil continues to leverage feet advantage, integration, cost discipline, and premium product offerings to strongly position us throughout the chemical business cycle. Moving to slide 21, ExxonMobil's first quarter financial and operating performance was strong and reflects the ability of our business model and competitive advantages to deliver strong results. As we continue to focus on operational excellence, deploy high impact technologies, and leverage our unparalleled global integration, ExxonMobil remains well-positioned to maximize long-term shareholder value. That concludes my prepared remarks this morning. I would now be happy to take your questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: Thank you, Mr. Rosenthal. The question-and-answer session will be conducted electronically.

(Operator Instructions)

We will take as many questions as time permits.

(Operator Instructions)

Take our first question from Doug Terreson with ISI Group.

DOUG TERRESON, ANALYST, ISI GROUP: Good morning, David.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Good morning, Doug. How are you.

DOUG TERRESON: I'm doing fine. My question is on the big increase in the dividend, and specifically at the analyst meeting, Rex seemed pretty clear that a more balanced approach distributions might be forthcoming, but on this point, the size of the increase represents a fairly marked departure from the 6% to 7% annualized growth rate that you guys have provided over 5, 10, and I think even 15 years. So my question is whether or not you could provide some color on this change and specifically how we should consider it in the context of overall dividend policy at ExxonMobil?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Yes, Doug, that's an excellent question, given our announcement yesterday. Let me kind of start with your last comment and move backwards from there.

DOUG TERRESON: Okay.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: We really had no change in our dividend policy. The policy remains the same, as does our total allocation of cash generated by the business. We do have a continued trend in dividend increases as we have said before. If you go back over a long history of the Company, we have in other quarters had fairly significant dividend increases. So again, no change in policy, but as we said at the analyst meeting, we are always evaluating the dividend policy and our cash distributions and studying how things are going and the Board decided yesterday to make the increase they did. But you also notice that our share repurchases remained at the $5 billion level that you saw across last year. So I would say the strategy remains the same -- invest in that very robust investment program we have, and you saw our first quarter CapEx, very strong as those projects proceed. Have a continuously growing dividend, and then take the balance of the cash and buy the shares. And that policy and strategy I think continues on.

DOUG TERRESON: Okay, great. And let me just ask you one more question. There's been a lot of cross currents about the position in Iraq, and specifically Exxon's current license, the strategy in Kurdistan and eligibility and/or interest on the upcoming licensing round. And so could you provide an update on that position which covers these items to the degree possible, David?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: I really can't comment a lot on that, other than to say the contracts that we have in place, and it's our intent to honor and fulfill those contractual obligations. I will note in the south, we reached another milestone at West Qurna where production has reached right at 400,000 barrels a day, and we're very pleased how that effort is coming along, and the progress we're making there. We continue to develop the field and do the things that we committed to do. And so progress continues. But other than that, I really wouldn't have any further comments.

DOUG TERRESON: Okay, David, thanks a lot.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Thank you.

OPERATOR: And now we will hear from Doug Leggate with Bank of AmericaMerrill Lynch.

DOUG LEGGATE, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Thanks, good morning, David.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Good morning, Doug. How are you?

DOUG LEGGATE: Not too bad. I have a couple also if I may. You mentioned on your prepared remarks about the higher E&P tax rate. I'm wondering if you could just give us a little bit of color as to why that was, if it was just mix effect and what the driver was. And in the context of the same issue, you also mentioned underlifts in the international portfolio. It's unusual for you to mention that, I guess. To the extent that it was material, could you quantify that for us, either absolute or in a per barrel basis? Thanks.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Sure. I'd be happy to answer both of those, Doug. First of all, let's start with the tax rate. You got the right word. You said mix. We have -- and it's a number of mix effects that we saw across first quarter. One of those that kind of goes unmentioned is really the difference in a lot of the crude prices around the world. People tend to focus in on Brent and WTI, but there was a lot of variability, for example, the Middle East crudes tended to do better than those markers. Some of the Canadian crudes, particularly, the heavier crudes tended to do less. You also have different fiscal regimes in each of these countries, and frankly, we saw some of the highest realization increases in countries with higher tax rates and some of the lower than average increases or even decreases in countries with lower tax rates. So that mix there and then the corresponding mix of where your earnings were generated that uptick in this quarter on the tax rate.

And when we talk about the underlifts. They were a factor this quarter, so maybe I'll go ahead and give some specifics here. In the first quarter of 2012, on an absolute basis, we were underlifted about 45,000 barrels a day. Last year in the first quarter, we were actually overlifted by about 18,000 barrels a day, so the delta quarter-on-quarter was about 63,000 barrels a day. All of that underlift was in either West Africa or the North Sea, which tend to be some of our higher margin areas. The impact was actually quarter-on-quarter a little bit bigger sequentially, so let me provide those numbers to you. Again, on an absolute basis, we were 45,000 barrels a day underlifted in the first quarter. As I mentioned last quarter, we were actually overlifted about 37,000 barrels a day. You might recall across last year, we talked about kind of quarter-to-quarter we were a little underlifted, and we made a bunch of that up at the end of the year. So if you take the 45,000 we were underlifted in the first quarter, and the 37,000 we were overlifted in the fourth quarter, sequentially, we were down about 82,000 barrels a day, and again, all of that was in West Africa. So it's a bit unusual that you have that level of a lifting timing effect, but it did occur in the first quarter, and as you would guess, doing the math did have an impact on our reported earnings.

DOUG LEGGATE: David, would you be able to quantify the net income impact or is that not something you want to get into?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: No, I don't have the net income effect on that but again, as I mentioned, those are some of our higher margin barrels, and you can probably use your own estimates and come up with a number, but I don't have one for you today.

DOUG LEGGATE: We'll figure out. Thanks a lot, David. Appreciate it.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Thanks, Doug.

OPERATOR: Moving on, we'll go to Robert Kessler with Tudor, Pickering, Holt & Company.

ROBERT KESSLER, ANALYST, TUDOR, PICKERING, HOLT & CO. SECURITIES: Good morning, David.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Good morning, Robert.

ROBERT KESSLER: Congratulations again on the Rosneft exploration JV. I wanted to go back to that for a minute. Your recent presentation and that of Rosneft, highlighted -- or focused extensively on the oil prospectivity of the Kara Sea. I'd say, what about gas? By that, I mean, estimates from, say the G USGS and others place more discoverable gas potential in the area than oil. To the extent that you discover natural gas, do the agreements contemplate, and does the fiscal structure allow for economic development of the gas?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Yes, that's an excellent question, and I'm glad you highlighted to begin with the progress we made because we really have made substantial progress, I think, in the meeting we had last week. The term historic was actually used, and so we're very pleased as are our partners in Rosneft with the progress that we've made. I know there's a number of estimates out there in terms of the prospectivity in the Kara Sea. I think I've seen some different ones. The one you've mentioned, I think Wood Mac has some numbers out there. Clearly there's oil and gas potential out there. I don't think we know yet how to assess that, and really that process is just getting underway. I really, in terms -- but again, as we said at the meeting, we are highly encouraged by the prospectivity on the oil side because of the extension of the prolific West Siberian basin plays that already in existence and are already producing, so that's what kind of lends that. Looking forward, it's really premature to start discussing the contract details or arrangements or arrangements or fiscal terms and that sort of stuff in detail.

I would just point out again, for those on the call that aren't as familiar, our position in the Kara Sea is equivalent in size to basically the North Sea and all of the leased acreage in the Gulf of Mexico. So again, a huge area of land, over 30 million acres, highly prospective, but again, under some rather harsh conditions, a challenging environment to work in, and will require all of the technological and operational capabilities of the two partners to explore that resource and should it be successful to then exploit those resources and move forward with development and production. We have a lot of experience in the Arctic, even in Russia and again, if you just kind of look at the parameters and the vectors, we're encouraged by the progress. We're certainly excited and looking forward to the joint venture, as are our partners. And in particular, as I mentioned, geeing the seismic activity underway and preparing to drill our first wells here in the next two to three years.

ROBERT KESSLER: Thanks, David. The scenario that was presented in terms of potential FID date and potential first production, both those were presuming this was an oil discovery that would be made, is that right?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Yes, I think that's generally correct. Again, though, I would just caution on looking forward. There's a lot of work to do, a lot of effort to be done here, and so I don't want to really start getting into specifics about FID dates and production and that sort of thing, other than to say the schedule that we have in front of us, which is really getting that seismic underway this year, developing that drillable prospect inventory, siting that first well, and getting that well done in what, industry perspective-wise, would be a fairly short timeframe. So again, we're going after it aggressively, but this is true frontier exploration, and we'll certainly be disciplined and diligent in our approach, and again, it is early days, so I think we'll focus a little more on the prospectivity and potential and a little less on what some of those specific dates might be in the outer years.

ROBERT KESSLER: Understood. Thanks very much.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: And Morgan Stanley's Evan Calio has our next questions.

EVAN CALIO, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Good morning, David. How are you?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Good morning, Evan. How are you?

EVAN CALIO: Amazing afternoon. It's flying by here. A question on Kearl. I appreciate your comments and then progress update. I know you guys have secured a transportation solution but can you provide more color on the planned route to market so we can better understand potential relative realizations versus water [borne] fruits? I know you'd mentioned earlier they're now and they're been quite lower than others?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Yes. If we're thinking about the initial phase, the first phase that's coming on this year, I can tell you we already have placement for that first page -- first phase, I'm sorry, so it's not an issue. We have multiple options within our own refining circuit to begin with, as well as some other options, but basically we're looking to place those first barrels with existing infrastructure and routes, and again, the bulk of that will likely find its way within our own system, but we have some other options. I think what's important to know is that we can start up Kearl, take it up to its full initial production of 110,000 barrels a day without any concerns over logistical constraints.

EVAN CALIO: Okay. Good. And secondly, on Argentina, I mean, have your plans, pace of activity, or thoughts changed at all in Argentina following the YPF nationalization? I know you have almost a 900,000 acre position and I'm curious to see how you're thinking or accounting for any potential investment risk there.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Sure. Let me start out by saying that our position, ExxonMobil, and our activity down there has not been affected by some of the recent activities that you mentioned that have occurred down there. Our activity, our exploration activity is continuing. In fact, I can tell you in the first quarter, we did complete our first two wells and get those down. We're in the process here in the second quarter of fracking those wells, and we'll be testing them in the second quarter, so those plans continue and the objectives are being met. As you mentioned, we have a very large acreage position there. We're encouraged by the early results that we're see down there, and look forward to profitably moving on with that venture. Having said that, of course, we are monitoring events that are occurring down there and what's happening, and we'll take all of that into consideration, but as we sit here today, we're meeting the objectives we set for the year and plans are continuing, and again, we have a very long, successful history in Argentina and going forward, got a great set of acreage down there, and again, we continue to work on that per our plan coming into the year.

EVAN CALIO: Have you had contact with the government and have some confirmation, or is there any update on the dialogue going there of your importance to the development of that resource?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: I don't have anything specific to identify. Obviously in any country where we have a lot of activity going on and investments, we're always contact and dialogue with the appropriate government agencies, as well as our partners, so I wouldn't look for anything specific out of any meetings or contacts. Those are ongoing, just as they always have been, but wouldn't have any specifics to offer other than normal conversations that go on, as we continue to really look at what we have down there and put together our plans and move forward.

EVAN CALIO: I appreciate it. Thank you.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Thank you.

OPERATOR: And now we'll hear from Arjun Murti with Goldman Sachs.

ARJUN MURTI, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Thank you, David. Couple questions regarding North America gas potential. ExxonMobil has a successful and large global petrochemicals business, global LNG business, the petrochemicals is focused on Asia and some of the Middle East growth. Can you comment on whether you see your now large domestic gas position as creating opportunities on both the export of LNG from the US or potentially the western Canada and/or coming back to the US in terms of some of the petrochemical expansions which you guys have otherwise focused on in the rest of the world? Do you see that as more of an opportunity going forward for you, and/or how do you plan to take advantage of that? Thank you.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Arjun, that's a good question. And of course, behind that, it all starts with some of the obvious competitive advantages that we have across the entire space that you covered. Our large prolific gas acreage that we have in the US, the advantages we have certainly and have already demonstrated and you're seeing in our US-based chemical business, and, of course, our global position in LNG. So given that competitive advantage background, I don't think it will come as any surprise to you that we're studying and assessing the very opportunities that you referred to. I don't have any specifics to offer you. Again, other than to say, we do have some advantages from all the way through the integration of resources into products, and as we're always doing, we're thinking about how to optimally develop those, take advantage of the acreage position we have, the resource potential we have, the technology, the marketing advantages, et cetera, to, again, on an integrated basis, exploit those resources. So any ideas you have and are thinking about and the things you read others are doing, you can rest assured we've got folks looking at that and studying that as well.

ARJUN MURTI: And maybe just a related question, can you talk about any update on your activities in the Marcellus and Utica, as well as the Bakken, in terms of maybe how the rig counts are trending and what you're expecting to do here over the rest of this year? Thank you.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Sure, I'd be happy to. Let me start with the Bakken and back up a little bit, because that is an area where we have been, over the last many months, increasing rigs, and we have continued to increase our rigs. We've now got 8 operated rigs running in the Bakken, and that is progressing very well, and we're encouraged by that. In the Marcellus, we've got 5 rigs operating, and as you -- oh, actually, we've got 4 rigs operating, and as you know, we've got just under 700,000 acres in the Marcellus and another 87,000 in the Utica, and so we continue to progress there. But I can tell you overall, when you're looking at our rig count and what we're doing, I think it's important to kind of step back and think about what we're doing overall. You might recall across most of last year or so. We tended to have, I recall 70, 72 rigs running. In total, we've got about 64 on average in the first quarter. We're running 61 rigs today, and we have continued to shift those to the liquids-rich plays that I mentioned, really focusing on the Bakken, the Permian, the Ardmore that I mentioned there. We're looking at and getting ready to plan some wells, get some wells down in the Utica, so all of that's going well, and again, continuing to acquire liquids-rich acreage at attractive prices and shift our rig fleet over to those areas while minimizing the incremental exposure to dry gas wells.

ARJUN MURTI: That's great. Thank you so much.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Thank you.

OPERATOR: And now we'll hear from Iain Reid with Jefferies.

IAIN REID, ANALYST, JEFFERIES & COMPANY: Hello, David, good morning.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Hello, Iain, good morning.

IAIN REID: Can I come back on the production in Africa? You talked about the underlift, but if you add that back you've still got a very substantial fall from the first quarter of last year in your African production. And I think you said PSC effects. You've been through some threshold effects. Is that right to say that the kind of 50,000, 60,000 barrel a day decline x the underlifts is due to threshold effects, profit all or cost all?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Yes, let me come at it a different way, and remember, the production that we list is the production, and the underlift is really just the sale. So if you come back to just the Africa production decline that you saw in the supplement between the first quarter of last year and the first quarter of this year, the bulk of that is accounted for by the entitlement effects that I mentioned, mostly the price and spend, but a little on the net interest side. Everything else kind of washed out.

IAIN REID: Okay so this is production, not liftings?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Yes. What we show you -- thank you, let me clarify that. What we show you in the supplement, that's a production number.

IAIN REID: Okay.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: And we had some project ramp-up that I mentioned, and we also had some better downtime performance, I'm pleased to say, and then that was basically offset mostly by decline. So the impact you're seeing there really is the impact of higher prices on our entitlement volumes.

IAIN REID: Are we talking about Angola, mainly here? And is it possible to say which fields, blocks 15 or 17?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Well, I mean, a lot of it is Angola, but it's also Nigeria and some other places, and then of course, our large producing operations there are blocks 15 and 17.

IAIN REID: Okay. I'm just thinking more generally about second quarter production. You've got some maintenance, I believe, in Angola coming up. Maybe a little bit of field ramp-up at Usan and Pazflor. Are we looking generally around the same sort of level of production the second quarter as we saw in first quarter?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Yes, I really don't have any guidance to give you on second quarter production. No real specific events. We do see the projects continuing to ramp up a bit, but I really don't have a real forward outlook for you.

IAIN REID: Okay, David, if I could just ask one more.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Sure.

IAIN REID: You mentioned a couple of times asset sales affecting earnings, and yet there's nothing in the special items here. Is it possible you could tell us what the absolute asset sales was in the first quarter relative to the first quarter of last year? In terms of the impact on earnings?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Sure. If you're looking at across the total Corporation, as we mentioned in the press release, the absolute earnings associated with asset sales in the first quarter of '12 was about $400 million, and that was generally all in the downstream. If you look compared to the first quarter of 2011, the number was about the same, about $500 million, but there the bulk of that was in the upstream. So you had kind of a switch there. The key variance that you see in our sequential earnings, as we go from the fourth quarter of last year to the first quarter of this year, the total earnings from asset sales in the fourth quarter last year were about $1.4 billion, about $1.1 billion of that in the upstream, and about $300 million of that in the downstream, so the big sequential impact you see is in the upstream and that's really the absence of that significant divestment that we had last quarter.

IAIN REID: Okay. Thanks very much.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: I'd also mention -- yes, let me just mention, just to be clear, in the downstream, the asset sales that we had in the first quarter related to the previously announced divestments in Malaysia and Central America. We have not booked anything in Japan as we mentioned last quarter. That will be later in the year.

IAIN REID: Thanks, David.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Thank you.

OPERATOR: And now we'll open the floor up to Paul Cheng with Barclays.

PAUL CHENG, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Hello, Dave. Good morning.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Paul, how are you today?

PAUL CHENG: Very good. If I could -- I was looking at your cash flow statement. On the working capital in (inaudible), is a positive swing of $6 billion. That seems to be a big number, even for the size of Exxon. Is that related to timing of taxes, payment, or anything like that, or that maybe my question is, that should we assume that that is here to stay, or that at some point in the later years it is going to get reversed? The second--

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Let me answer that one first, Paul, and then I'll let you go to the second question. That's actually very straightforward. During first quarter that we saw big decrease in working capital, and that was literally all due to higher payables. We had some other ins and outs, but the real net effect you're seeing there is a fairly decent increase in our payables accounts.

PAUL CHENG: Oh, is that related to crude purchase?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Yes, that's related primarily to crude purchases. And of course, that's price driven. As you saw the prices ramp up across the quarter such that when you got to the end of the quarter you had some pretty high prices. But again, nothing really out of the ordinary, if you look at the quarter and you look at what prices did, but I'm glad you asked the question because that is the impact you're seeing there.

PAUL CHENG: Great. In Woodford Ardmore, what is your current production? I know you normally don't want to go down to too much granularity in terms of what is the well production run rate, that kind of thing, but can you also tell us that what is the split between, say, the black oil condensate, NGO, and natural gas in that play, and if there's any rough estimate on your 30-day IP that you've been seeing on those?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Yes, Paul, I'll be consistent with your expectations, and just say, no, I'm not prepared to give that level of detail today. I think what's important is not necessarily the actual production that we're generating there. What's real important is effort we have underway now to delineate that acreage, to analyze what we have, and really put together that comprehensive long-term exploitation and development plan that we have, and that's what will deliver the volumes and the rates and the earnings down the road, but as we sit here today, I think what's important, we're adding acreage. It's very attractive acreage. If you had a jigsaw puzzle of that area, you would see that the things we're adding are plugging right in to adjacent properties that we already had so the acreage position I mentioned isn't just an acreage position. It's a mostly contiguous acreage position, which as you would guess, gives us really good opportunities to optimize around the development. So we are seeing nice increases in production, as the wells are coming on stream and we're encouraged by those results, but our focus is less on what today's production is, but getting the rigs down there, I think I mentioned, we added 2 more rigs this quarter to the Ardmore, so we've now got 10 running, and we're working on that area. And as the actual production goes into sales later on, we'll be in a better position to give more information.

PAUL CHENG: Dave, can sneak in a quick question?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Sure.

PAUL CHENG: Poland. How many additional wells due plan to drill this year?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Yes. If you take a look at our Polish position, I think I mentioned last quarter the wells that we had drilled and how those turned out. I will tell you that during the first quarter of this year, we did acquire a fourth 3D seismic activity. The processing of that seismic is ongoing, and the analysis we get out of that compared with the learnings we got from the wells that we drilled will really give us kind of an all-inclusive set of results that we can evaluate and then plan our go-forward plan. But I've got to tell you, the go-forward plan is really dependent on the 3D seismic, and, again, the real geoscience evaluations and evaluations that we'll do are really going drive our future plans, and those just aren't set just yet.

PAUL CHENG: Thank you.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Paul.

OPERATOR: And now we'll move on to Blake Fernandez with Howard Weil.

BLAKE FERNANDEZ, ANALYST, HOWARD WEIL INCORPORATED: Good morning, David.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Hello, Blake.

BLAKE FERNANDEZ: I wanted to go back, if I could, on two issues that you covered previously -- one being the dividend, and the second Russia. On the dividend, if I look historically, it's around this time of year that the Board basically sets the policy for the year. Is it fair to think that the dividend will remain at this level for the balance of the year, or do you think that we have an opportunity to reevaluate and potentially increase further in a later quarter?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Yes, Blake, that's good question, but I really don't have a comment or wouldn't want to try to speculate or forecast what we might do going forward. I think, again, we did raise the dividend yesterday by 21%. Policy is unchanged, if you look from a macro perspective, but I really wouldn't want to try to speculate or forecast anything on a go-forward basis.

BLAKE FERNANDEZ: Fair enough. The question on Russia, I'm just curious if you could talk a little bit about how you arrived at the North American assets to contribute to the JV. When you look at Exxon's portfolio in the US, obviously you've got quite a few options. I'm just curious on the Cardium and Delaware, I mean, was it just similar geological characteristics, or was it more financially motivated? Any color you could give would be appreciated?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Yes, sure, I'd be happy to provide a little more color on that. If you look at the assets that we're talking about in terms of what our partners would get here in the US, it's actually a variety of a number of high-quality assets. I mentioned the Cardium, a very attractive tight oil play for us, where we've got wells going down and we're drilling. We talked about west Texas and some of the unconventional oil plays we have going on there. And, of course, the ability for Rosneft to improve their understanding of the technology that's at work out there, and some of the practices we have and that we're doing to optimize the development of that is important to them, and as I talked about, as we learn about the unconventional resources together, what we have in Canada, what we have in the US, what they have in western Siberia, there will be a lot of learnings out of that.

I also mentioned the Gulf of Mexico, where they're going to have an opportunity to farm into 20 blocks, and as you know, we have been expanding our own activity in the Gulf of Mexico, have had some very nice success recently, so it certainly would not be a surprise that those would be attractive acreage opportunities for them. So I think you have to step back and look at this partnership in just the way we've described it. It's a strategic agreement for both parties. It allows us to bring it to table, each of us, very high quality prospective resources, all of which rely on state of the art and forward-looking technology applications, and bring together the best of both companies and also in the interest of both companies going forward. So that's -- and we're talking about other opportunities elsewhere around the world, and so again, I keep coming back to the term strategic cooperation agreement, because that's really what it's all about. And you will see that as we move forward.

BLAKE FERNANDEZ: Thank you, sir.

OPERATOR: And now we will hear from Ed Westlake with Credit Suisse.

ED WESTLAKE, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Hello. Good morning, David. Thanks for the question. So strong cash flow, good returns. But I guess there's still some criticism of Exxon sort of overall liquids position in North America and your lowering rig count and shifting to some of the liquids plays you have but can you give some color on the sort of ability for Exxon to really move the needle in terms of acquiring acreage outside of the Woodford Ardmore, the Cardium, and Viking that you're talking to?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Yes, I think it would be fair to say, Ed, it's really kind of both. I mean, we're obviously taking advantage of opportunities again to concentrate leverage, where we already have a position, and those efforts are bearing fruit. And of course, as you get bigger and more concentrated positions, you've got a real opportunity to better the, again, the analysis and exploitation of those resources. Moving the needle, there's certainly opportunities we believe for that, however you define moving the needle, but those are really going to come, again, with a very deliberate, disciplined, analytical approach to how we go about doing this. I think as I mentioned last quarter we're very fortunate to have the financial strength the Company does, and the flexibility to be able to go after these things in a disciplined, diligent way without worrying about paying the bills at the end of the month, and we continue to progress in that arena. We are looking at a broad range of other opportunities that are out there. I can't give you the specifics yet, because we're still in the evaluation phase, but there are a number of those out there in North America and frankly in other areas.

But I would be remiss if I didn't also remind you of the recent success we've had with liquids in the Gulf of Mexico, with the big discovery we had there last year. So when you look across North American liquids opportunities, it's not just the unconventional oil potential but it's also the potential that we have in our attractive acreage position in the Gulf of Mexico. And then broader speaking, I think it's important, and you raise a good point when you see the decline in our liquids production recently. I will just reiterate one of the comments we made at the analyst meeting in March. If you look at the projects that are going to start up between now and 2016, I think the number we quoted was about 80% of that production will be liquids. So whether it's the Kearl project, whether it's the Africa projects, some of the other things we got going on, we have a strong portfolio of liquids projects in development, and also the pipeline of opportunities on the exploration side is quite robust. So I think if you continue to look a little longer term, I think we're going to be in really good shape and we're looking forward, as I mentioned in my remarks, to getting the projects up that we have on the plate for this year, and then in particular, when you get in that 2014 to 2016 timeframe, bringing some of those big projects along as well.

ED WESTLAKE: Thanks very much, David.

OPERATOR: And Citigroup's Faisel Khan has our next question.

FAISEL KHAN, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Thank you and good morning.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Good morning, Faisel.

FAISEL KHAN: If I can go back to Iraq, in your prepared remark or press release, you talked about a ramp-up in volumes in Iraq and kind of getting to your contracted volumes. Can you discuss a little bit about the infrastructure you're placing on the ground to get up to those contracted volumes that you guys have?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Faisel, help me out a little bit. In particular, infrastructure, what did you have in mind?

FAISEL KHAN: Pipelines and water injection facilities, stuff like that, processing facilities, I guess, the basic midstream and infrastructure designed to deliver that oil to market?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Sure. It's a couple of things. If you're looking in the field, in particular, of course, it's important for us to get the flow lines in and do some of the debottlenecking that we can do, and thus get some production up that way. If you looking broader, at the infrastructure, in terms of the common seawater project, some of the lifting capabilities, particular, there was a major ramp-up in the capability to take oil out of the country last quarter, so there's a number of projects going on. Again, some are kind of local and help get the production up. Some are broader. Those are progressing as well. I really don't have any specific comments in terms of timing of some of the other larger infrastructure projects, but those are progressing as well.

FAISEL KHAN: okay. And then just last question from me, on non-US downstream in the quarter, if I strip out kind of the gains on asset sales and also Imperial Oil reported a pretty nice number in refining as well. If I kind of take that out, it looks like outside of Canada and the asset sales that now non-US downstream reported fairly low earnings. Can you talk about what's dragging those results this quarter?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: If you're looking at the downstream earnings, you're really talking about quarter-over-quarter. Is that kind of your emphasis? First quarter '12 versus first quarter '11?

FAISEL KHAN: Yes. That's right?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Yes, we had a number of things. I think the one I would probably note, if you look at the margin impact that we showed slightly negative relative to some higher industry refining margins that you see quoted, we had a number of price timing effects on our feed slates into the refineries that had a negative impact there, and probably would have given you a little impact there that you weren't expecting. Nothing out of the ordinary. It was positive in the first quarter of last year. We had the absence of that in the second quarter. So quarter-on-quarter, you kind of saw that. But I'll tell you, x those effects, things came in just about as we expected.

FAISEL KHAN: Okay. Fair enough. Thanks for the time. Appreciate it.

OPERATOR: And now we'll go to Allen Good with Morningstar.

ALLEN GOOD, ANALYST, MORNINGSTAR: Good morning, David.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Hello, Allen.

ALLEN GOOD: I wonder if I caught you correctly, you said 87,000 acres in the Utica, that seems to be up from 75,000 you reported at the analyst day. I was just curious if you can confirm that. And then you talked about the acreage adds in the Ardmore. Are there any other liquid-rich plays that are of interest to Exxon and that you've been adding acreage in during the quarter?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Yes, let me just confirm first of all the number I gave of you 87,000 is correct, and that is up from the 75,000 that we mentioned at year end. We have been incrementally adding some attractive acreage there as we've gone across the quarter.

ALLEN GOOD: Okay. And then as far as the discovery in Tanzania, I just wonder, does that change Exxon's outlook there in east Africa, and would there be any potential there for additional acreage adds or maybe farm-ins with some already operators there in the region? Because it seems like it's seems sort of a light portion of your portfolio currently. And obviously the Tanzania discovery is a positive there. Just wonder sort of what's the outlook for Exxon in that region?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Sure. Let me first kind of hit the overall that you mentioned. There have been a number of discoveries announced by industry in that area over the last several months. We are very pleased to have the position we have in the block that we farmed into, and it's a very nice discovery. I think I mentioned about 5 tcf of recoverable gas so that's very positive for us. We are very interested in appraising that prospect further and have some plans in place to do that. In terms of going forward and looking at other things, I wouldn't be any more specific other than to say, we're always looking for opportunities, for good opportunities. We were looking when we found this one, and pleased to have it. So without being specific or really any departure from past practice, we're always looking for good opportunities. This is one. We're pleased to have it. Probably get our next well underway here in the second quarter to further appraise that prospect. And I'll tell you, in terms of additional opportunities, there are a series of additional structures on the block we have to take a look at and do some more work and appraise. So more to come from on that block with our partner Statoil, and again, we're both very encouraged with this. Lots to do on that block but always looking for additional opportunities.

ALLEN GOOD: Okay, thanks for that commentary.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Argus Research, Phillip Weiss, has our next questions.

PHILIP WEISS, ANALYST, ARGUS RESEARCH COMPANY: Thank you and good morning, David.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Good morning, Philip, how are you?

PHILIP WEISS: Good. How are you.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: All right.

PHILIP WEISS: Most of my questions have been answered. I just had one small one. On your profitability per barrel was down relative to the movement in realizations. And I just wondered if that was a function of the underlift or if there was something else going on there?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: It's a number of the things I mentioned. Certainly the underlift would be a big component, because you have the reported production that you're dividing the earnings by, and that's why I really wanted to give you the detail on the underlift. It's a big impact. Also, the tax rate impact I mentioned, because of some of the mix that we saw, of course, had an impact on calculated unit profitability. Other than that in the quarter, we did see a little higher OpEx, including some exploration expense, higher that you would have seen in the supplement that we gave you, but again, it's really the US gas price on the North American side, and then the mix that we saw overseas and some of the other factors that were the real driver there.

PHILIP WEISS: Okay, great. Thanks, David.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Thank you. I believe we have time for one more question.

OPERATOR: Okay and Pavel Molchanov with Raymond James has our last question.

PAVEL MOLCHANOV, ANALYST, RAYMOND JAMES & ASSOCIATES: Yes, thanks for squeezing me in. Can you give an update on the status at PNG LNG? There's been some press reports about local conflict with residents and construction, I believe, was suspended for a period of time?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Sure. Let me give you a progress update on how we're doing in the first quarter. We've done some additional drilling and a number of other efforts associated with the projects. Everything from the civil works to the work we're doing on the gas conditioning plant, and just a number of progress items related to the pipelines, the plant, and all of that. So that project is really progressing on schedule and we're very pleased with how things are going there. You have seen in the press some of the issues around unrest. It's one of the challenges we have with the project. Each large project we seem to do around the world has its own unique set of challenges. So there's nothing out of the ordinary here. We are managing that situation in conjunction with the local communities and with the government. And as you would guess, there has, here and there, been some impact at the individual work sites where some of this activity has occurred. But I can tell you, if you step back and look across the whole project, and it is a complex project, we are on schedule, we're progressing as planned, and there's no change to our outlook for a 2014 start-up of that very attractive project.

PAVEL MOLCHANOV: Okay. Can you just say if construction is current ongoing at the LNG site?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Oh, yes, construction is ongoing. Yes. We're continuing to progress all phases of the project.

PAVEL MOLCHANOV: Okay, pretty good.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Okay. Thank you. I want to thank everybody for your time today, and the excellent set of questions. So again, thank you, and look forward to visiting with you again next quarter.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude our conference call for today. Again, thank you for your participation. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
exxn : Exxon Mobil Corporation | rsneft : Rosneft Oil Company OJSC | rosnft : Rosneftegaz
   IN
i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1300003 : Crude Petroleum Extraction | iextra : Natural Gas/Oil Extraction
   NS
c151 : Earnings | m143 : Energy Markets | ntra : Transcript | crecal : Product Recalls | c15 : Performance | c26 : Product Safety | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | m14 : Commodity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020120510e84q005ei
  


 HD
 Q4  2011  Exxon  Mobil Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
11,441 words
   PD
31 January 2012
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©012 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day. Welcome to the Exxon Mobil Corporation fourth quarter 2011 earnings conference call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time for opening remarks, I'd like to turn the call over to the Vice President of Investor Relations and Secretary, Mr. David Rosenthal. Please go ahead, sir.

   TD
DAVID ROSENTHAL, VP, IR AND SECRETARY, EXXONMOBIL CORP: Good morning, and welcome to Exxon Mobil's fourth quarter earnings call and webcast. The focus of this call is Exxon Mobil's financial and operating results for the fourth quarter and full year of 2011. I will refer to the slides that are available through the investor section of our website. Before we go further, I would like to draw your attention to our customary cautionary statement shown on slide 2. Moving to slide 3. I'll start with an overview of some of the external factors impacting our results.

Global economic recovery was slower in the fourth quarter largely due to weakness in Europe. GDP improvement in the United States and Japan was tempered by negative growth in the European Union. US real GDP growth was 2.8%, improving from 1.8% in the third quarter, while Japan delivered another quarter of positive growth as post earthquake recovery continues. In general, non-OECD growth remains robust even with a slight decline in growth from China. Energy markets were mixed in the fourth quarter. Crude oil and non-US natural gas prices remained strong while worldwide industry refining margins saw significant declines as did commodity chemicals margins.

Turning now to the fourth quarter financial results as shown on slide 4. Exxon Mobil's fourth quarter 2011 earnings excluding special items were $9.4 billion, an increase of $150 million from the fourth quarter of 2010. Our effective tax rate for the quarter was 47%. Earnings per share for the quarter excluding special items were $1.97, up $0.12 from a year ago. The Corporation distributed more than $7.2 billion to shareholders in the fourth quarter through dividends and share purchases to reduce shares outstanding. Of that total, $5 billion was utilized to purchase shares.

Share purchases to reduce shares outstanding are expected to be $5 billion in the first quarter of 2012. CapEx in the fourth quarter was $10 billion, consistent with the fourth quarter of 2010. We continue to invest in robust projects throughout the business cycle, all of which served to help meet global demand for crude oil, natural gas, and finished products, while supporting economic growth, including job creation.

Our cash generation remains strong with $17.6 billion in cash flow from operations and asset sales, including $6.9 billion associated with asset sales. At the end of the fourth quarter 2011, cash and marketable securities totaled $13.1 billion and debt was $17 billion. The next slide provides additional detail on fourth quarter sources and uses of funds. Over the quarter, cash and marketable securities increased from $11.3 billion to $13.1 billion, including cash on deposit associated with potential asset sales which have not yet closed and, therefore, are not reflected in earnings.

The combined impact of strong earnings, depreciation expense, higher working capital, and the benefit of our ongoing Asset Management program yielded $17.6 billion of cash flow from operations and asset sales. Uses included additions to plant, property and equipment, or PP&E, of $8.6 billion and shareholder distributions of $7.2 billion. Additional financing and investing activities had no net impact in the quarter. Moving now to the full year results as shown on slide 6. Exxon Mobil's full year 2011 earnings excluding special items were $41.1 billion, up $10.6 billion from 2010.

Earnings per share for the year excluding special items were $8.42, up $2.20 from 2010. The Corporation distributed $29 billion to shareholders in 2011 through dividends and share purchases to reduce shares outstanding. Of that total, $20 billion was utilized to purchase shares. CapEx in 2011 was $36.8 billion, up $4.5 billion from 2010, mainly due to acquisitions of unconventional assets including the Phillips companies and continued progress on our world class project portfolio including the Kearl Oil Sands Project.

Our cash generation was very strong of $66.5 billion and cash flow from operations and asset sales including $11.1 billion associated with asset sales. Moving now to the full year cash flow statement as shown on slide 7. During the year, cash and marketable securities increased from $8.5 billion to $13.1 billion, including cash on deposits associated with potential asset sales which have not yet closed and, therefore, are not reflected in earnings. The combined impact of strong earnings, depreciation expense, higher working capital, and the benefit of our ongoing Asset Management program yielded $66.5 billion of cash flow from operations and asset sales.

Uses included additions to plant, property, and equipment, or PP&E, of $31 billion and shareholder distributions of $29 billion. Additional financing and investing activities decreased our cash and marketable securities by $1.9 billion. Moving on to slide 8 and a review of our segmented results. Exxon Mobil's fourth quarter 2011 earnings of $9.4 billion increased $150 million from the fourth quarter of 2010. Upstream earnings increased $1.3 billion while downstream earnings decreased by $725 million. Chemical earnings were down $524 million.

Lower corporate and financing expenses increased earnings $50 million versus the fourth quarter of 2010. As shown on slide 9, Exxon Mobil's fourth quarter 2011 earnings of $9.4 billion declined by $930 million compared with the third quarter of 2011, primarily due to lower industry refining and chemicals margins. Looking now at the full year comparison on slide 10, Exxon Mobil's full year 2011 earnings excluding special items were up $10.6 billion to $41.1 billion, an increase of 35% from 2010, primarily due to strong oil and gas realizations.

Upstream earnings increased $10.3 billion while downstream earnings were up $892 million and chemical earnings were down $530 million. Corporate and financing expenses for the full year in 2011 were $2.2 billion, down $104 million from 2010. Our guidance for corporate and financing expenses continues to be $500 million to $700 million per quarter. Moving next to fourth quarter business highlights beginning on slide 11. The offshore installation of our deepwater Angola Satellites Project is nearly 50% complete with development drilling well underway and targeting start up in mid-2012. The project will involve a subsea tieback to the existing Kizomba A and B FPSOs and produce approximately 100,000 barrels per day on a gross basis. This level of production is similar to levels achieved by FPSOs at our Saxi/Batuque and Mondo developments.

The PNG Project is also progressing as planned towards a 2014 start up. Recent milestones include completion of over 130 kilometers of offshore pipeline, welding of over 100 kilometers on the onshore pipeline, and commencement of piling work at the Hides Gas Conditioning Plant. At Banyu Urip in Indonesia, we have issued five major EPC contracts including those associated with the onshore and offshore pipelines and mooring tower. The project remains on schedule for full field production in 2014 with a targeted initial gross production of 165,000 barrels per day. In the Gulf of Mexico, we funded our interest in the Lucius development which is scheduled for a 2014 start up.

Exxon Mobil's Hadrian South discovery will also tie into the Lucius facility with start up planned for 2014. Also during the quarter, we completed a settlement with the US Department of the Interior and the US Department of Justice regarding the Julia Field in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico. This will allow us to progress the initial phase of development of this important discovery. Now turning to slide 12. Construction at the Kearl Initial Development is now 87% complete and is on schedule to start up in late 2012 with an initial gross production rate of approximately 110,000 barrels per day. Also during the quarter, we funded the Kearl Expansion Project which will add an additional 110,000 barrels per day of production and is anticipated to start up in late 2015. When combined with the Kearl Initial Development, the Expansion will develop 3.2 billion barrels.

Future debottlenecking of both phases will increase output to reach the regulatory capacity of 345,000 barrels per day and fully develop the 4.6 billion barrel resource. Turning now to an exploration update on slide 13. Exxon Mobil maintains a balanced, global exploration portfolio which supports an active exploration drilling program aimed at testing new play concepts, opportunities in existing basins, and near-field wildcats across the globe. For example, we are currently drilling a well in the Black Sea offshore Romania and participating in an exploration well offshore Tanzania, both of which will test new deepwater play concepts.

In Nigeria, we mobilized the West Polaris rig and commenced a new deepwater exploration program and oil production license 214. In the Gulf of Mexico, we were the high bidder on 50 new exploration blocks in Lease Sale 218, which further strengthened our acreage position in the western Gulf of Mexico, and leveraged our advanced seismic imaging capability. This technology will allow us to progress new exploration opportunities in the Gulf of Mexico and other basins around the world. We also maintain an active global unconventional exploration drilling program.

I will now provide an update on some of these activities on slide 14. We continue to focus our drilling activity to maximize development of liquids-rich plays. In the Woodford Ardmore, we added another rig and now have 8 operated rigs developing this recently discovered liquids-rich resource where we hold more than 170,000 net acres. Current drilling is focused on delineating this acreage which more than tripled in 2011, as well as determining optimal well spacing and drilling and completion practices. Ardmore well performance continues to be strong and we completed a total of 31 new wells in 2011.

In the Bakken Shale, we have 7 operated rigs developing roughly 400,000 net acres of leasehold. In 2011, we drilled and completed a total of 51 wells, including 18 in the fourth quarter, and notwithstanding severe weather in the first half of 2011, and increased downtime, our net Bakken liquids production increased 27% in 2011 versus 2010. In the fourth quarter alone, net Bakken liquids production increased 13% versus the third quarter of 2011 and 41% versus the fourth quarter of 2010. In the Permian Basin of West Texas, we have 5 operated rigs which are developing conventional plays as well as testing new liquids-rich unconventional opportunities.

In Canada, we have had encouraging early results in the Cardium, with 2 wells on production at year end and additional drilling planned in 2012. Finally, we commenced drilling 2 wells in the Neuquen Basin in Argentina in December to test unconventional liquids and gas potential. Turning now to slide 15, with an update on the downstream. We continue to make targeted investments where there is an attractive growth opportunity. We are investing to help meet growing demand for motor fuels with cleaner burning formulas and to sustain the competitiveness of our refining portfolio well into the future. During the quarter, we completed a lower-sulfur fuels project at our Si Racha, Thailand refinery which will increase production of cleaner gasoline and diesel fuels at the refinery by over 50,000 barrels per day.

Additionally, construction of a lower-sulfur fuels project has begun at the joint Saudi Aramco and Exxon Mobil SAMREF Refinery in Yanbu, Saudi Arabia. The project will include new gasoline and diesel hyrdochaining and sulfur recovery equipment with completion expected by the end of 2013. Turning now to the upstream financial and operating results and starting on slide 16. Upstream earnings in the fourth quarter were $8.8 billion, up $1.3 billion from the fourth quarter of 2010. Stronger crude oil and natural gas realizations increased earnings by $2 billion as crude oil realizations increased over $22 per barrel and gas realizations increased $1.09 per kcf.

Production mix and volume effects decreased earnings by $1.5 billion due mainly to the impact of lower entitlement volumes in West Africa, base decline, downtime, divestments, and lower than normal seasonal demand in Europe, partly offset by the ramp-up of Angola and Iraq projects. All other items, primarily gains from asset divestments, increased earnings by approximately $800 million. Upstream after-tax earnings per barrel for the fourth quarter of 2011 were $21.18.

Moving now to slide 17. Oil equivalent volumes decreased 9% from the fourth quarter of last year, mainly due to the impact of lower entitlement volumes in West Africa, decline, downtime, lower than normal seasonal demand in Europe, and divestments. Volumes were positively impacted by the ramp up of projects in Angola and Iraq and continued strong performance in our US unconventional resource business. Excluding the impacts of lower entitlement volumes, quotas, and divestments production declined about 4%.

Turning now to the sequential comparison, starting on slide 18. Versus the third quarter of 2011, upstream earnings increased by $435 million. Higher realizations increased earnings by $190 million as crude oil realizations remained strong and natural gas realizations increased $0.46 per kcf. Production mix and volume effects increased earnings by $50 million due mainly to higher seasonal demand in Europe, partly offset by the impact of divestments. Other items, primarily gains from asset divestments and lower exploration expenses, partly offset by higher operating expenses and unfavorable foreign exchange impacts increased earnings by $190 million.

Moving to slide 19. Oil equivalent volumes increased 6% from the third quarter 2011 due mainly to higher seasonal demand in Europe and the ramp up of projects in Angola, partly offset by the impact of divestments. Turning now to the full year comparison starting on slide 20. Upstream earnings were $34.4 billion in 2011, an increase of $10.3 billion from 2010. Improvements in global realizations led to an increase in earnings of $10.6 billion. Lower liquids volumes, mainly due to lower entitlement volumes in West Africa and base decline, partly offset by project ramp up in Qatar, lowered earnings by $2.5 billion. All other items driven by higher gains on asset sales of about $2.7 billion increased earnings by $2.2 billion.

Moving to slide 21. Volumes grew by 1% or 59,000 oil equivalent barrels per day compared to 2010. Ramp up of projects in Russia, Qatar, Iraq, and Angola, combined with continued strong performance in our US unconventional resource business more than offset the impacts of base decline, divestments, and lower entitlement volumes in West Africa.

Excluding the impacts of lower entitlement volumes, quotas, and divestments production was up over 4%. For further data on regional volumes, please refer to the press release and the IR supplement. Moving now to the downstream financial and operating results and starting on slide 22. Downstream earnings in the fourth quarter were $425 million, down $725 million from the fourth quarter of 2010. Lower industry refining margins contributed to a decrease in earnings of $740 million, while volume and mix effects decreased earnings by $30 million. Other factors increased earnings by $40 million.

Moving to slide 23. Sequentially, fourth quarter downstream earnings declined $1.2 billion, largely driven by significantly lower industry refining margins. Volume and mix effects increased earnings by $60 million, while other factors increased earnings by $360 million primarily due to inventory, or LIFO, benefits and higher gains on asset sales. The full year comparison of the downstream is shown on slide 24. Downstream full year 2011 earnings were nearly $4.5 billion, up $892 million from 2010. Higher industry refining margins contributed to an increase in earnings of $800 million.

Volume and mix effects improved earnings by $630 million reflecting the ongoing benefits from investments and refining optimization activities. Other effects decreased earnings by $540 million, mainly due to the absence of favorable tax effects and higher expenses. Turning now to the chemical, financial and operating results and starting on slide 25. Fourth quarter chemical earnings were $543 million, a decrease of $524 million versus the fourth quarter of 2010. Lower margins decreased earnings by $230 million, mainly in commodity chemicals, while volume effects decreased earnings $40 million. Other factors decreased earnings by $250 million primarily due to unfavorable tax effects.

Moving to slide 26. Sequentially, fourth quarter chemical earnings decreased $460 million. Commodity chemical margins declined significantly driving a negative earnings impact of $390 million. Volume effects increased earnings by $10 million while other effects decreased earnings by $80 million. On slide 27, we show the full year comparison for chemical results. 2011 earnings were nearly $4.4 billion, including record specialty chemical earnings of about $1.8 billion.

Overall, stronger margins increased earnings by $260 million while volume effects decreased earnings by $180 million, mainly due to higher planned maintenance in 2011. Other effects reduced earnings by $610 million, primarily due to unfavorable tax effects and higher planned maintenance expenses. While the fourth quarter was a reminder that the chemical business is cyclical in nature, Exxon Mobil's quality portfolio of both commodity and specialty chemicals provides upside benefit when commodity margins are strong and a stable, less cyclical specialties earnings base when commodity chemical margins are weaker. We continue to leverage our feed advantage, integration, cost discipline, and premium product offerings to outperform throughout the cycle.

While we manage our downstream and chemical businesses separately, we continue to capture benefits from the unique integration and optimization of these businesses. Both businesses delivered strong results in 2011 with combined earnings of $8.8 billion, up $360 million from 2010. Moving to slide 28. Exxon Mobil's fourth quarter and full year financial and operating performance was strong and reflects the ability of our business model and competitive advantages to deliver superior results. As we continue to focus on operational excellence, deploy high-impact technologies, and leverage our unparalleled global integration, Exxon Mobil remains well positioned to maximize long-term shareholder value.

Finally, I would like to mention two upcoming events. First, in mid-February, we will be releasing our 2011 reserves performance data. Second, as many of you will already have seen, our analyst meeting this year will take place at the New York Stock Exchange on Thursday, March 8. This will include a live audio webcast beginning at 9.00 AM Eastern, 8.00 AM Central Time. Exxon Mobil's presenters will be led by Chairman and CEO, Rex Tillerson. That concludes my prepared remarks. I would now be happy to take your questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: Thank you, Mr. Rosenthal. The question-and-answer session will be conducted electronically. (Operator Instructions) We'll take our first question from Arjun Murti with Goldman Sachs.

ARJUN MURTI, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Thank you, Dave. Two somewhat unrelated questions. Can you comment on the status of West Kerna and how that project is going, and then the related part of that is can you make any comments on adding acreage in Kurdistan? There's been a lot of press about that. I don't think you've put out anything officially, that's the first question, thank you.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Yes, let me, Arjun, let me actually answer those in reverse. I don't have any comments to make today on Kurdistan. I will, though, tell you that in the West Kerna field, things are proceeding on plan. We continue to meet our production commitments and progress the redevelopment projects in West Kerna and that's going very well.

The Common Sea Water Supply Project is also progressing and we are in the process of finalizing commercial terms with the Ministry of Oil and other participating IOCs. So, things are going well and continuing to progress as planned.

ARJUN MURTI: Thank you. The other question was just on US gas. Looks like your production ticked up here in the fourth quarter, obviously, the current gas outlook is pretty weak. You all, I know, take a longer-term view. Can you provide any comments on how you're thinking about your US gas rig count and outlook in light of what, at least, are currently pretty weak prices? Thank you.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Yes, thank you for that question, Arjun. That's a very topical item today and I know there's a lot of questions and a lot of interest in the US Gas Business and what we're seeing and what we're doing, so I might just take a moment and kind of address the broader picture of US Gas.

I'll start by saying we remain bullish on the future of Natural Gas as an energy source. For those of you that are familiar with our recently released energy outlook, you know we are very bullish on the demand side of Natural Gas as an energy source in the US. And as we all know, given the fairly steep decline in conventional gas, unconventional gas will play the dominant role going forward. In that regard, we are very pleased with our unconventional resource portfolio and look forward to a major participation in that space.

Now as we all know, due to record production this year and record storage levels, and a relatively mild winter to date, prices have weakened significantly recently. I can tell you that we have not curtailed any gas production and we're still running 65 to 70 rigs across the space. What has changed over the year is, we have reallocated a large number of those rigs to liquids and liquids-rich plays.

For example, if you were to step back a year and then come forward to today, we've actually doubled the percentage of the rigs in that fleet that are drilling either liquids or liquids-rich plays, and I mentioned some of those examples in my prepared remarks. So, although the overall size of the fleet has remained about the same, a very substantial portion of those rigs are drilling liquids or liquids-rich plays.

Nonetheless, I can also tell you that we are still drilling dry gas wells. We do have a few of those that are required for lease maintenance or meeting other contractual obligations. But, we are drilling a number that continue to provide good economics.

As you would expect, with a drillable well inventory of over 40,000 wells, we're able to put those things in order and have significant optionality and flexibility to drill them, and that really gives us an opportunity to maximize the value of that resource over a long period of time. So, if you look at the total market, we continue to be focused long term, while making the adjustments in our rig fleet to head to the higher value, higher margin products.

ARJUN MURTI: David, just a really quick follow-up.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Sure.

ARJUN MURTI: Given the comments on the Cardium and some of the oil plays, do you see the opportunity to raise your overall rig count more towards the liquids and liquids-rich plays, or 65 to 70, kind of plus or minus your number for this year?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: I think as we look across the year, I wouldn't expect the 65 to 70 to change a whole lot in total, but I think it would be reasonable to expect that we will continue to expand the focus of that drilling to the liquids and the liquids-rich plays, particularly in some of the areas where we are having good initial success and we'll look forward to, again, bringing on some more wells there. So, I think that's what you'll see kind of as the year progresses.

ARJUN MURTI: Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Our next question will come from Paul Sankey with Deutsche Bank.

PAUL SANKEY, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Hi, David.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Good morning, Paul. How are you?

PAUL SANKEY: Good, thank you, how are you?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: All right.

PAUL SANKEY: David, obviously, with these PSC effects you've had quite a significant step down in volumes. Thinking about your analyst meeting, I think that the 2011 number was guided to be around 4.6 million barrels a day of production. You're about 100,000 barrels a day lower than that.

Should we sort of reset your trajectory of growth from that lower level, or should we think about a structurally lower level you've talked about? I guess PSC volumes, which, I guess, are now lost, because I assume you're blowing through tranches there. Any clear change in how you're handling -- there is somewhat of a change in how your handling US drilling. Can you just sort of update us on the outlook for 2012, and I have a follow-up, thanks.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Sure, Paul. I think we'll give you a broad outlook on 2012 at the March analyst meeting, and we'll look at both this year and what to go forward. Certainly, if you look at our overall projection, or production for the year, again, if you back out the effects in particular on entitlements, we did, in fact, actually do a little better than the 4%. I think we had targeted 3% to 4%.

So, if I just look at the operational performance, we actually did as expected or perhaps even a little better than expected. As you did note, and as we note in the charts, we did see a fairly significant impact from entitlement volumes across the year. In particular, if you look year-on-year it's about 124,000 barrels a day in total.

About 100,000 of that was price-related, and the other 20,000 was tranche related, as we've talked about particularly in Nigeria and Angola. So, clearly, at the prices that we saw this year, we did see an impact. The prices that we were looking at, and we put together our outlook back in March, were a little more conservative than what we saw actually, and so that had the big effect. But, we'll look forward to giving a fulsome discussion in the March analyst meeting of volumes and drivers for those going forward here, again, in about a month.

PAUL SANKEY: And just more specifically, forgive me if I missed this in the comments, but there was a large gain in after sales and upstream. I think we've got the Apache, there was a deal with Apache in the North Sea. But could you talk about what else was sold? I'm not clear what that was, thank you.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Yes, we had a -- that was the biggest one, the biggest impact that you saw was in the North Sea. We had some minor other things going on, but the North Sea was the biggest deal and accounted for the bulk of the Asset Management gain that we talked about there that you see in the other category.

PAUL SANKEY: Okay, so that's quite specific that it was, obviously, more than 50% of the number was that specific deal?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Oh, sure, sure.

PAUL SANKEY: Okay, thank you very much.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Yes, that was the main item in that number.

PAUL SANKEY: That was the main item. Okay, I've got you, I understand, thank you.

OPERATOR: Next we'll hear from Faisel Khan with Citi.

FAISEL KHAN, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Good morning, David.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Good morning, Faisel, how are you?

FAISEL KHAN: All right, how are you doing?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Good, thank you.

FAISEL KHAN: All right, thanks. One more time, on the absolute gain in the quarter on the asset sales, it's $810 million year-over-year, but what is the absolute number for the quarter? And also, if you can give us the absolute number for the effects that took place in chemicals, the unfavorable tax, I think, change?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Sure. The absolute impact in the quarter, if you're looking on that $800 million, we had an impact of about a billion dollars in the quarter, was the absolute number.

FAISEL KHAN: Okay, understood, and then the effect of the tax, the unfavorable tax impact in the chemicals?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Yes, you interested the full year impact or looking at the quarterly?

FAISEL KHAN: Just the fourth quarter.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: If you look at the fourth quarter, again, relative to the prior year, that impact was really most of that $250 million that you see there. That was the bulk of it.

FAISEL KHAN: Okay, got you. And last question for me, if you could be a little more specific about the rig count in the US. You said you've been shifting a lot of the rigs to the liquids-rich plays, but of the 65 to 70 rigs you're running, how many of those rigs now are running in the liquids-rich plays versus the dry gas plays?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: I'll tell you, Faisel, for commercial reasons we don't want to be that specific. I think what's important is, that it is now a substantial proportion of the total. And, again, I mentioned several examples in my prepared remarks and you can see the increase we've had in the rigs there. So, without adding all that up and giving you a total, its been a significant increase over the last 12 months.

FAISEL KHAN: Okay, and then what about the Lower 48 production of liquids? How has that trended, or what number is that in the quarterly number for volumes?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: I don't think we've ever given, typically given a specific Lower 48 number. If you look at the total in the US, that number has been trending about flat or so over the course, and we've seen a number of ups and downs there, but nothing real specific to highlight.

FAISEL KHAN: Okay, all right, thanks, David. Appreciate it.

OPERATOR: We'll move on to Ed Westlake with Credit Suisse.

ED WESTLAKE, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Yes, David, just coming back to the volumes. If I look at it year-over-year, all of it's European gas, and that's probably weather and the economy. But that $214 million of net growth. Are there any other areas that you feel, as you look at the performance, that has disappointed you?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: You know, when we look across the year, in particular on the full year effect, I'll tell you one area where we did not perform quite as well as we would have expected would have been in downtime. For example, if you look at the full year downtime, year-over-year was worth about 35,000 barrels a day on a decrease in a number of areas. And I'm pleased to report that as we came across the end of the year, particularly as we went from the third quarter to the fourth quarter we actually got a lot of that back, and that was a big piece of the increase that you saw sequentially.

Other than that, I think, as we look across the year, all of our projects that came online, performing very well. The base decline performed about as expected, the projects that came online are doing well, and overall operations were good, but I think I've mentioned off and on across the year, we did have some unplanned downtime and maintenance outages and we are working on that. I'll say scheduled downtime was about as expected, so it was, clearly, the unplanned outages, but, again, about 35 kbd. Other than that, we're pretty pleased with how things went.

ED WESTLAKE: And then if I look at the cash flow, you've got $10 billion of total CapEx. You've got asset sales increasing. Should I read into this that you're going to be a little bit more aggressive about spending organically and then perhaps selling some of the tail assets? Or is it just timing in Q4 for that $10 billion run rate?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: I wouldn't read anything into that. We had $10 billion in the fourth quarter. I think that was about the same as it is in the prior year. We generally see a pretty big ramp up quarter-on-quarter as we get to the end of the year. Likewise, on divestments, and you've seen a number of those announced that haven't closed yet, and will as we move across this year, particularly in the downstream. I don't think there's anything special, other than it's all part of our ongoing Asset Management program.

I'll tell you a lot of these deals are a long time in the making, some years in the making, and others come up rather quickly as the situation warrants, so no change in direction. No change in philosophy for us. Again, timing, but we do have a continued program to look at the portfolio, add where we need to add, divest where it's favorable to us, and then restructure where it meets all the stakeholders needs. And I think you saw a lot of that over 2011 and, again, many of those deals will close in the first half of this year.

ED WESTLAKE: Thanks, David.

OPERATOR: Our next question will come from Paul Cheng with Barclays Capital.

PAUL CHENG, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Hi, David, good morning.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Good morning, Paul.

PAUL CHENG: I just want to make sure that I get the number right. You're saying that the absolute asset sales being in the upstream is about $1 billion in the fourth quarter?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Yes, in the fourth quarter.

PAUL CHENG: And then when I'm looking at from the fourth to the third quarter the other item is a positive $190 million. Does that mean that in the third quarter we have about $800 million in asset sales gain, or there's other things in that also?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Order of magnitude, that's about right. There are some puts and takes, but that's pretty close.

PAUL CHENG: So, what is the full year absolute asset sales gain? There's $2.2 billion that you show as Other. That is the number, or there are other things inside there also?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Well, if you're looking at the full year number where we show the $2.2 billion?

PAUL CHENG: Right.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Yes, the full year for the upstream is about, the delta is about $2.7 billion with an absolute of about $2.9 billion.

PAUL CHENG: So, absolutely it's about $2.9 billion in 2011, okay.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Yes.

PAUL CHENG: In Europe, the European gas is down $730 million year-over-year?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Right.

PAUL CHENG: How much of that is related to weather, and how much is actually the underlying capacity declined?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: I think if you look at the total amount, I think about half of that is weather and the other half declined more or less. Clearly, sequentially third quarter to fourth quarter we didn't see near what we were expecting.

PAUL CHENG: Okay. And I think you had mentioned, I probably just missed that, there's a cash on deposit from the future asset sales. How much is that and related to which deal?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Paul, good question. It's $3.6 billion that we have on deposit for potential asset sales that haven't closed, and although I don't want to give the specific details of what that relates to because, obviously, the deal hasn't closed, and that means we continue to have commercial discussions going on, but I did want you to know it was there, because what you have is cash without an earnings impact and should the transactions mature and close, then you'll see an earnings effect some quarter in the future without a cash flow. But that number is $3.2 billion.

PAUL CHENG: When do you expect to close your deal in Japan?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: By about mid-year.

PAUL CHENG: Mid-year. And I'm wondering, some of your other competitors in the downstream, the independent refining companies that are in the quarter, they have some significant hedging losses due to using WTI to hedge for the long haul crude supply. I'm wondering whether Exxon did any of that? And also, do you hedge and [not in the defense] for your long haul crude supply in your downstream? And if you do, do you use WTI or Brand contracts?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Paul, that's a good question and pretty a straightforward answer. No to all parts of that question. We don't do any hedging and we certainly don't speculate in the futures markets.

PAUL CHENG: Okay, very good. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Next we'll hear from Doug Leggate with Bank of America-Merrill Lynch.

DOUG LEGGATE, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Thank you, good morning, David.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Good morning, Doug, how are you doing?

DOUG LEGGATE: Not too bad, thank you. I'm going to try a couple also, if I may, and the first one is really more of a philosophical question on your US gas statements that you spent some time on earlier. We're all, obviously, fairly familiar with the XTO economics from the legacy portfolio, and I think it's probably fair to say that some of your dry gas production is probably challenged from our return on capital and an NPD standpoint.

So, given Exxon's focus on returns, given the early revenue, or of the dependence of those early wells on the early part of the production to basically justify the economics, at what point would Exxon consider basically zeroing out as dry gas drilling or indeed curtailing production? Is it a gas price or is it a philosophical decision that you just deep drilling right through?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Doug, I really can't comment or speculate on any forward operating decisions. The comments I made earlier really talked about where we are today and, again, the plan that I talked about in terms of what we're drilling and where we're going, but I really don't have a comment to make on what any future operating decisions that we might take.

DOUG LEGGATE: Okay, I thought it was worth a try, David. The second one is also a kind of philosophical question. As we look forward, and I guess you'll give us an update in March, but you have an awful lot of long life assets that are either already in or will be in the portfolio of the next couple of years, arguably stabilizing the underlying cash flow, maybe think about it another way of reducing the maintenance capital.

How do you ultimately think about changing the balance between dividends and share buybacks noting that through all your share buybacks over the last few years, your absolute dividend payment as a percentage of cash flow has actually declined fairly precipitously. How do you think about that? And I'll leave it there, thank you.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: That's good. Let me hit that in a couple of areas. One, in terms of the CapEx. Yes, as you know, we are in a CapEx mode now, and have been for the last year or two, and will, for the next couple years, investing in large legacy projects, that as we talked about before have all of their, or most all of their CapEx upfront.

Certainly, in the last few years, the Qatar investments would qualify for that. And now the two Kearl Oil Sands Projects, Morgan LNG, Papua New Guinea LNG, and those sorts of things. So surely, as I mentioned in my prepared remarks, a number of projects are due to come on in the 2012-2014 timeframe and we'll begin to see both the production and cash flows from that.

Without going too far beyond that, we've got a lot of other opportunities we're working on, as we've discussed and we'll discuss more at the analyst meeting, that we hope give us the opportunities to continue to spend CapEx in order to grow the business profitably. As you know, one of the opportunities we have in addition to our ongoing drilling program is the strategic cooperation agreement with Rosneft which we are progressing and progressing as planned, and, as I've mentioned in prior calls, that gives us tremendous exposure to what could be a very, very attractive opportunity.

Now, as far as the dividend versus share buyback, I don't have any change in our approach to communicate today. We are committed to continuing to provide a reliable and growing stable dividend to our shareholders, and then once we've invested in all of the attractive projects and opportunities we have available, returning a lot of the cash to the shareholders through share repurchases. So that's a long-term kind of approach we've taken over the last many years and I would expect going forward, although we continue to look at that all the time, every quarter, I don't have any change to communicate today.

DOUG LEGGATE: All right, appreciate the answers, David, thank you.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Doug Terreson with ISI Group.

DOUG TERRESON, ANALYST, ISI GROUP: Hi, David.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Good morning, Doug.

DOUG TERRESON: In the downstream between sales in Malaysia, I think it was Q3 and then Japan and consolidation of fuels, marketing and lubes, restructuring is becoming fairly meaningful in refining and marketing, so my question regards the strategic rationale behind these moves and whether you consider these actions as normal course of business or maybe more? And either way, the productivity benefits that the Company expects to realize from these actions?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Yes, that's a good question. I'll say it's really part of an ongoing program we've had in the downstream for a long time, as opposed to any specific change in strategy or event. We, like others, have been looking at our downstream assets around the world and where we have had areas, where in certain locations, that our assets are of significantly more value to others, we've actually sold those businesses.

The resulting impact has been very positive on our returns in the downstream, and so we continue to progress and look at those things. We've about finished up the retail conversion in the US and that has gone on very well and the earnings associated with those divestments have been very strong.

As you mentioned a couple of the other sales that we have out there in Malaysia, in Argentina, in Central America, that we announced last year should close some time in the first quarter or second quarter of this year. And then, the Japan restructuring that we mentioned here in the last couple of days, we should also close again by mid-year.

But, taking all of that into account, we do continue to invest in the business where it makes sense, the ultra-low-sulfur diesel investments that we've made in the last couple of years. I mentioned some additional lower-sulfur and cleaner burning fuel projects that are underway, as well as, of course, the chemicals projects that we have underway. So, we remain committed to these businesses but, again, as we said in our outlook for energy, in certain parts of the world, the demand for transportation of fuels is flat to down, and I would expect us to optimize there, and where we have opportunities for growth we will.

But I would say overall, if you look over the last couple of years, and kind of what's out there now, its been a very successful Asset Management program and we're very pleased with it, but it is an opportunistic program and I don't have any guidance going forward other than the deals we've got out there to close.

DOUG TERRESON: Okay, that follows. So, also in US E&P profitability has been soft over the past couple quarters and I realize that natural gas prices have been weak but crude oil has performed pretty well. And so, my question is whether you could comment on the cost trend that you're experiencing in US E&P and/or any other color that you could provide on US E&P profitability?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Sure. Certainly, on the overall unit margin or unit profitability we are, of course, impacted by the decline in gas prices. And while we do intend to give a nice update in March on the unconventional business in the US, I can tell you that some of the objectives we set out at the time of the merger are coming to fruition. We are seeing improvement in capital efficiency. We are seeing reductions in operating expense.

We're seeing improved productivity on the wells through a number of things, everything from pad spacing, to length of laterals, to how we array the laterals in certain areas. So, a number of both engineering and technology things we've brought to the table are paying off and I think that helps mitigate the impact of the lower expenses, or the lower prices, if you will. So, from that standpoint, I think we're progressing well and optimizing, again, that portfolio. But at the end of the day, the profitability on a book basis is certainly impacted by the declining price trend that we've seen over the course of the year.

DOUG TERRESON: Sure, thanks a lot, David.

OPERATOR: We'll move on to Robert Kessler with Tudor, Pickering, Holt & Company.

ROBERT KESSLER, ANALYST, TUDOR, PICKERING, HOLT & CO.: Good morning, David. One quick clarification on the US natural gas commentary and then also on the unconventional liquids. On the US natural gas, with your unchanged bullish long-term outlook, any thoughts on being a continued consolidator in the US E&P space? And on the unconventional liquids, thanks for the color on activity in different areas, can you provide maybe some maybe IP rates, and if I can sort of shoot for the moon, well-specific costs on the areas you highlighted?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Yes. Sure, let me hit those two questions. In terms of the first question, I don't have any specific guidance, but as we have said for a long time, I would continue to say we're always looking for opportunities that are out there and you've seen that in some of the acquisitions that we've made over the last year or so. We continue to look at opportunities, certainly, as the environment changes over time, we're always checking to see what's available and might be of value to us. But, again, no specifics. In terms of the individual IP rates, I don't have any specifics to give you.

I will say that if you look, for example, up in the Cardium, where some of the tide oil well rates that you've heard from others, ours are certainly doing well and at the upper end of that range. We're getting good rates in the Woodford Ardmore. We're looking forward to some of the other ones.

But, again, a lot of our drilling has been delineation in nature and we have yet to bring a lot of those wells on production, so I wouldn't want to give specifics. Other than to just conclude, and say that program is going well, and we're very optimistic, again, in particular, the Bakken, the Cardium and the Woodford Ardmore are all looking very attractive, and I look forward to give you more updates on those areas as this year progresses.

ROBERT KESSLER: Okay, thanks, David. If I could ask one quick clarification on the downstream, you mentioned the benefit of inventory liquidation. Sounds like you blew through a couple of LIFO liquidation layers. Any quantification of that benefit to earnings more explicitly, and any kind of strategy around liquidation of inventories around year end? Ad valorem tax purposes, for example, or is this just kind of an inherent volatility in the inventory balances?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Yes, I'll tell you, you didn't see a real big change. I'll tell you the absolute inventory, the LIFO effect for this year in the fourth quarter was $200 million and, frankly, that's about what it was last year. So we didn't see much of a change in any of our Businesses. About $200 million, but, again, no big shift in program. That's kind of typical as we optimize our inventories at year end.

ROBERT KESSLER: Okay, thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Next we'll hear from Jason Gammel with Macquarie.

JASON GAMMEL, ANALYST, MACQUARIE RESEARCH EQUITIES: Hi, David.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Hi, Jason, how are you?

JASON GAMMEL: I'm doing well, thanks. Hope you're doing well also. Just wanted to ask, really for an update on some of the other unconventional activity that weren't mentioned in the discussion. So I'll hold it to one, but it's multi-part if that's okay.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Sure.

JASON GAMMEL: First of all, Utica Shale. Have you actually spud a well there yet, and are you still in acreage position around 75,000, or have you increased that?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Sure. As I mentioned, we would be spudding a well in the first quarter of this year, and we do have one going down as we speak. The acreage position there is about 75,000 acres today and we're looking forward to working on that.

JASON GAMMEL: Great, and then on the Horn River Basin, David, can you talk about what activity levels are like during this particular drilling campaign, and if you have advanced any strategy towards potentially exporting that gas as LNG?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Yes, I'll hit the first one. We are, we do have a drilling program planned for this year. I think it will be about the same as we had last year, and, again, it's really related to evaluation and delineation as opposed to production, so a similar-sized program. And it's going to be, I think it will be about two wells, two to three wells, which is typically what we've been doing.

In terms of strategies for eventual monetization, I don't have any specific information to provide other than, of course, with a resource potentially as large as that, we are exploring all of the options that are out there and we'll continue to do so, and as soon as I have an update on that, I'll give it to you.

I might also mention the Neuquen Basin. I think I mentioned it briefly in my prepared remarks. We do have two wells going down there. They aren't completed yet, so I can't give you any specifics. But we continue to add acreage down there, and looking forward to an active drilling program and, really, trying to test the potential for both liquids and gas. So, that is active.

Another country that we've talked about before is Poland, and I think I mentioned in the last call that we would have had the two wells down in Poland. Those two wells did complete in the fourth quarter, and while we did find gas, it did not flow in commercial quantities in either of those two wells.

So, we'll be analyzing that and evaluating the various characteristics of the shale there and working on our go-forward plans. I think that's kind of an update. If there's a country I missed that you're interested I'd be happy to talk about it.

JASON GAMMEL: Maybe just as a follow-up, David, what is the condition of the service industry in Argentina? Are you able to find rigs and pressure pumping equipment, or are things fairly tight? And then I'll leave it at that?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Yes. In Argentina, we're doing okay. We farmed into a block there, and the operator there is pretty well established. So, at least for the activity that we have ongoing in the wells that we're trying to drill, it's not impacting our program, but we'll see how that turns out as we go forward and the activity in the area increases in general.

JASON GAMMEL: Thanks, David. Appreciate all the color.

OPERATOR: Allen Good with Morningstar has our next question.

ALLEN GOOD, ANALYST, MORNINGSTAR: Good morning, David. How are you?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Good morning, Allen.

ALLEN GOOD: Most of my questions have been answered. I just have a quick one. I know you said the reserve report was coming out in February, but could you give any indication if any reserves from Iraq were booked in this year, or anything else related more to Kearl given the go ahead with the expansion there?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: No, I think I'll wait and we'll, of course, talk about both of those, but both of those will be included in our press release and it will be out in mid-February, so we're only a couple of weeks away.

ALLEN GOOD: Okay, and then just one quick follow-up, on Ketchikan, is that still on schedule for this year, and any update you could give there would be helpful?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: I think the target is still for year end this year and I don't have any update for you different than that.

ALLEN GOOD: Okay, thank you very much.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Sure thing.

OPERATOR: Next we'll hear from Pavel Molchanov with Raymond James.

PAVEL MOLCHANOV, ANALYST, RAYMOND JAMES & ASSOCIATES: Hi. Thanks for taking my question. One quick one about, back to US gas. With 18 months having passed since you closed XTO, has the employee attrition rate been consistent with your expectations prior to closing?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Yes. In fact, that's turned out to be a pretty positive for us. Its been very stable. We haven't seen any significant increase, and on that front, things are pretty good. I think the folks over there are very pleased with the progress we're making in the business, in the program, the integration, the availability of technology and other resources to advance the programs that were underway. So, again, that's been a positive for us.

PAVEL MOLCHANOV: Okay, and then a quick one about Japan. The transaction with TonenGeneral, was that brought about by Exxon proactively, or were you approached by the buyer in this deal who was interested making this happen? Or in other words, can you tell us a little bit about the background to that deal?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: I really can't share any specifics along those lines. I can tell you, when you look at the restructuring and the assets evolved and how they are structured and managed today, and how they will be after the deal, this is a positive for all the stakeholders involved, and really better positions that combined business to meet the market needs of Japan. I think that's probably the most important part, without getting into the specifics about how it was initiated.

PAVEL MOLCHANOV: Okay, will Exxon have any wholly owned refineries in Japan after this closes?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: No, we won't.

PAVEL MOLCHANOV: Okay, understood. Thanks very much.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Sure thing.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Philip Weiss with Argus Research.

PHILIP WEISS, ANALYST, ARGUS RESEARCH COMPANY: Good morning. I did have one, most of my questions have been answered, but I do have one follow-up on the US. You said that the rig count that's being used for liquids-rich is rising but when I look at production, natural gas as a percentage of your total production has grown, and liquids has actually fallen a little bit. So, I wonder if you can just comment on when we might start to see that trend change?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Sure. The fall off in the liquids is really just the overall decline in the conventional, as well as some divestments. You'll recall we had a divestment in the Eastern Gulf of Mexico and that had an impact on us year-over-year in particularly in the second half.

In terms of when we'll see significant production growth out of the unconventional, I mentioned some of the increases in percentages, although we haven't given all of the specific production volumes, but we'll do that as we progress.

One of the things we've seen is a lot of the drilling is really around delineating the resource and appraising it, finding where the sweet spots are, determining what the best approach to fracking or otherwise producing those resources. A lot of time being spent on evaluating well spacing.

So, I think the best way to think about this is a lot of activity and a lot of drilling and a lot of planning, as opposed to being in a huge hurry to get a well on production and over to sales. But, clearly, as that program advances this year and we continue to put in the wells and the infrastructure, we would expect to see those volumes increase at a fairly hefty rate, and, again, we'll talk a little bit more about the overall program and what to expect at the meeting we have in March.

PHILIP WEISS: Great. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from John Herrlin with Societe Generale.

JOHN HERRLIN, ANALYST, SOCIETE GENERALE: Yes, hi, David.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Hello, John.

JOHN HERRLIN: Just a couple quick ones. For the Woodford-Cana, what's your split, do you know, between gas and liquids?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: In the Woodford Ardmore?

JOHN HERRLIN: Yes, I'm sorry, yes, sorry, yes.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Yes, I don't have a specific split number on that. I think what's more important, as opposed to specific production, is the emergence and the discovery, really, in the Ardmore Basin of the liquids potential. I'll tell you if you were thinking about rigs in particular in that, we've got eight rigs drilling liquids and two rigs drilling gas, if that was the real nature of your question. And so, again, early mover in there on our part over the last year or so, and really looking forward to ramping up the activity there.

JOHN HERRLIN: Okay, with many of your US liquids plays, you spoke of being in the delineation mode. Does that mean you're having to deal with HBP acreage capture issues, or you're just trying to get a sense of field sizes?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: No, it's not really the HBP capture. It's really figuring out what we've got and what the best way is to go about developing and producing it so that we optimize the total over a long period of time, as opposed to, again, being in a big hurry. If you think about it, it's what's the field size in the acreage position that we have, where are the sweet spots, and then where do you go first, and then how do you develop that to optimally produce.

And we do, I will say we probably spend a little more time than others working on the front end design and evaluation because, again, we're focused on what the overall long-term value is we can get out of that. And that's kind of the upfront investment in time and resources that we've seen here over the last year.

I guess the last thing I'll mention is, even as we're doing some of the these delineation and appraisal wells, even that, we find some fairly significant efficiency gains as we go from one area to the other and then capturing those allow us once we get to really producing the resource, we're not starting out from scratch, we've already got some experience. So, again, more to that as the year progresses.

JOHN HERRLIN: Okay, in terms of going from a delineation mode to a development mode, how long do you think that will take before you get your comfort level to reach that sort of level or degree of planning?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Well, I think it depends on the various areas and the resources. Some we've had efforts underway for a while now, and some we're just starting, really getting things underway and it will vary. But, again, I think what you'll find as the year progresses, I'll give you updates as we progress and really get to kind of the production levels, because it will be different among the various fields.

JOHN HERRLIN: Okay, thank you.

OPERATOR: Next we'll hear from Katherine Minyard with JPMorgan.

KATHERINE MINYARD, ANALYST, JPMORGAN SECURITIES INC.: Oh, hi, thank you very much for taking my questions. Just a couple of quick ones. What's the, as we kind of look at ExxonMobil's portfolio in North American natural gas, what's the usage been over either 2011 or the fourth quarter, just in terms of consumption at the refinery and even though oil sands level?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Kate, I don't have those specific numbers. I can tell you directionally, in the US one of the benefits we got out of the merger with XTO was an ability to optimize gas feeds into all of our refineries along the Gulf Coast and optimizing feed into there versus sales to third parties. So, I don't have those specific rates, but I can tell you we've been able to optimize that to the benefit of our refining economics.

Additionally, we've been able to also through integration optimize our feeds both natural gas for utilities, as well as ethane, into the chemical business, so that's ongoing. And probably if you talk about integration, that's probably more important than anything that we have going on up in the oil sands space. So, a clear benefit and one we're taking advantage of.

KATHERINE MINYARD: Okay, great, and then just switching gears to the cash position. When we think about ExxonMobil's potential uses of cash over the next, say, year or so, should we be considering potential under funded pension liabilities as a use of cash? I can appreciate that maybe the year end 2011 data isn't completely finalized, but is that something that might be on the table, as its been in years past?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Again, I think they're still sorting through all that and I think we'll publish that number when the K comes out here in a little while, but I'm not aware of anything significant on the table relative to what we've seen historically.

KATHERINE MINYARD: Okay, all right, great. Thank you so much.

OPERATOR: Next we'll hear from Mark Gilman with The Benchmark Company.

MARK GILMAN, ANALYST, THE BENCHMARK COMPANY: All right, David, good morning.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Good morning, Mark. I'm going to give you the last question this morning.

MARK GILMAN: Oh, boy, I guess I better make it good.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Yes.

MARK GILMAN: A couple, if I could. You mentioned in your prepared remarks asset sales gains in the downstream. Could you quantify that on an absolute basis in the quarter?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Sure. It was about $200 million.

MARK GILMAN: Okay. Its been indicated in the trades that you are in arrears, or I should say Baghdad is in arrears to the tune of $500-odd million on West Kerna. Can you comment on the validity of that?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Mark, I really can't comment specifically on the items that you mentioned, particularly in the trade press. What I can tell you is, we have an ongoing relationship with the Ministry on a number of administrative items, but things are, we're working through that, but I don't have any specific on any one item. We work on issues from procurement, to invoicing, to payment, to a number of things and those are ongoing.

MARK GILMAN: Okay, I was curious about the Tonen transaction. 22%, kind of an odd number in terms of your retained interest in Tonen. Can you give me some idea how that number came about, and, well, why it is that you would want to retain a 22% interest?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Yes, I can tell you the 22% represents the 80 million shares that we're keeping in the business. I can tell you, again, the whole transaction is really around optimizing the commercial structure in Japan, and when we looked at the various restructuring and consolidations and optimization of the assets in there, that's where we ended up. And it really represents, we're not, we're still committed to Japan.

You'll see a large presence of Exxon Mobil in there. All of our brands will be in there. We'll continue to provide services and technology, but it's really just, I think if you looked at the Japan market and how it's evolving, that restructuring was really kind of a natural next step in the integration of those assets and, again, will position the combined Company to better meet the needs of the market and add value for the stakeholders.

MARK GILMAN: Okay, last one for me. You've got some license renewals coming up in Abu Dhabi, you and others in the consortium. I think the expiration of those licenses is 2014. In your case in particular, is there any linkage between the potential renewal of those licenses and the terms under which they get renewed and your Upper Zakum project?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: We are involved in commercial discussions that are ongoing. But, Mark, I think as you can appreciate, I really couldn't comment on anything that had to do with the negotiations there or any of the specifics with fiscal terms or anything else.

MARK GILMAN: Okay, thought I'd give it a try. Thanks, David.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Mark, and thanks to everybody for being on the call today. Appreciate your time and questions and look forward to visiting with you at the March analyst meeting. So thank you very much.

OPERATOR: That does conclude today's conference call. Thank you for your participation.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
exxn : Exxon Mobil Corporation
   IN
i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1300003 : Crude Petroleum Extraction | iextra : Natural Gas/Oil Extraction
   NS
c151 : Earnings | m143 : Energy Markets | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | m14 : Commodity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020120214e81v003jt
  


 HD
 Q3  2011  Exxon  Mobil Corp Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
8,950 words
   PD
27 October 2011
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©011 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day and welcome to the Exxon Mobil Corporation third quarter 2011 earnings conference call. This call is being recorded. At this time for opening remarks, I'd like to turn the call over to the Vice President of Investor Relations and Secretary, Mr. David Rosenthal. Please go ahead, sir.

   TD
DAVID ROSENTHAL, VP, IR AND SECRETARY, EXXON MOBIL CORP: Good morning and welcome to Exxon Mobil's third-quarter earnings call and webcast. The focus of this call is Exxon Mobil's financial and operating results for the third quarter of 2011. I will refer to the slides that are available through the investor section of our website. Before we go further, I would like to draw your attention to our customary cautionary statement shown on slide 2.

Moving to slide 3, we provide an overview of some of the external factors impacting our results. The global economy and energy markets continue to face a challenging macroeconomic environment. Global economic growth was mixed in the third quarter. United States GDP in the third quarter, is expected to show some modest improvement from the second quarter, while economic growth in the European union continued to slow amid persistent sovereign debt concerns. In general, non-OECD growth remains robust, even with some signs of demand softening in China. Energy markets overall continued to weaken in the third quarter versus the second quarter, with both crude oil and natural gas prices declining. Commodity chemical margins also weakened across the quarter.

Turning now to the third quarter financial results as shown on slide 4, Exxon Mobil's third quarter 2011 earnings excluding special items, were $10.3 billion, an increase of $3 billion from the third quarter of 2010. Our effective tax rate for the quarter was 47%. Earnings per share for the quarter excluding special items were $2.13, up $0.69 from a year ago. The corporation distributed more than $7 billion to shareholders in the third quarter through dividends and share purchases to reduce shares outstanding. Of that total, $5 billion was distributed to purchase shares.

Share purchases to reduce shares outstanding are expected to be $5 billion in the fourth quarter of 2011. CapEx in the third quarter was $8.6 billion, consistent with the third quarter of 2010. Across our diverse portfolio we continue to invest in robust projects through the business cycle to help meet global demand for crude oil, natural gas, and finished products while supporting economic growth, including job creation. Our cash generation remains strong with $16.3 billion in cash flow from operations and asset sales. At the end of the third quarter 2011, cash and marketable securities totaled $11.3 billion and debt was $16.8 billion.

The next slide provides additional detail on third quarter sources and uses of funds. Over the quarter, cash and marketable securities increased from $10.3 billion to $11.3 billion. The combined impact of strong earnings, depreciation expense, lower working capital, and the benefit of our ongoing asset management program yielded $16.3 billion of cash flow from operations and asset sales. Uses included additions to plant property and equipment, or PP&E, of $7.5 billion and shareholder distributions of $7.3 billion. Additional financing and investing activities decreased our cash and marketable securities by $0.5 billion.

Moving on to slide 6, and a review of our segmented results. Exxon Mobil's third quarter 2011 earnings of $10.3 billion increased almost $3 billion, or 41%, from the third quarter of 2010. Upstream earnings increased $2.9 billion while Downstream earnings improved $419 million. Chemical earnings were down $226 million. Higher corporate and financing expenses decreased earnings $140 million, versus the third quarter of 2010, mainly due to tax items.

Corporate and financing expenses remain within our continued guidance of $500 million to $700 million per quarter. As shown on slide 7, Exxon Mobil's third quarter 2011 earnings of $10.3 billion, declined by $350 million compared with the second quarter of 2011, mainly due to weaker crude oil realizations and chemical margins, partially offset by higher Downstream margins.

Moving next to third quarter business highlights, and beginning on slide 8. During the quarter we continued to make good progress at Kearl, with construction now 75% complete. The Kearl Initial Phase Development is progressing as planned towards a late 2012 startup. The PNG LNG Project is also progressing as planned towards a 2014 startup. Recent milestones include the first weld on the 430--mile gas pipeline, mobilization of the first drilling rig, and construction of the LNG plant pipe racks, storage tanks, foundations and jetty.

We continue to wrap up activity in Iraq with 6 drilling rigs operating. Current gross production is approximately 370,000 barrels per day. We're also working with the Ministry of Oil, the South Oil Company, and other integrated oil companies involved in the development of the southern Iraq oil fields to advance the commercial and technical basis for the Common Sea Water Supply Project. At Banyu Urip, in Indonesia, key contracts were awarded, including the central processing facility, EPC contract, and the drilling rig contract. Additionally, the early production system continues to deliver approximately 20,000 barrels per day of crude oil production. Exxon Mobil also signed a principles of agreement with the government of Indonesia on key terms and conditions for a new production sharing contract for the development of the Natuna gas resource. The completion of the POA is the key milestone towards the development of Natuna.

Turning now to slide 9, Rosneft and Exxon Mobil signed a strategic cooperation agreement on August 30, to jointly participate in exploration and development activities in Russia, the United States, and other parts of the world. This includes 30 million acres in the Kara sea, which is one of the world's most prospective hydro-carbon provinces with high potential for liquids. As you can see from the map, the 30 million acres in the Kara sea is a very large area and is similar in size to the entire central Gulf of Mexico. Seismic surveys are planned in the Kara sea in 2012. In the 2.8 million acre Black Sea block, seismic surveys have begun with the potential for exploration drilling to follow in 2014. We are working closely with Rosneft to finalize the definitive agreements.

Turning now to an update on our unconventional activities on slide 10, Exxon Mobil's global portfolio of unconventional assets contains a growing number of highly prospective liquids-rich plays. We have approximately 410,000 net acres of leasehold and 7 operated rigs in the title reservoirs of the Bakken shale. In the Permian, where we hold approximately 800,000 net acres of leasehold, we are also evaluating unconventional potential that occurs across roughly 50% of this acreage. In the Bakken, liquids production in the third quarter rebounded strongly from the severe weather impacting operations in the first half of 2011, increasing by 19% from the second quarter and 25% year over year.

We are also involved in multiple emerging liquids-rich shale plays, the most active of which is the Woodford shale in the southern Oklahoma Ardmore Basin area. To date, we have amassed more than 150,000 net acres in this play through an aggressive leasing and acquisitions program. This leadership position has been built at an attractive cost, as we acquired resources for approximately $0.30 per 1,000 cubic feet equivalent and added the leasehold for under $600 per acre. Our activity in the Woodford Ardmore play, has ramped up significantly in 2011, with our operated rig count increasing from 3 to 7 rigs, and gross operated production more than tripling since year-end 2010. In our core development area, peak 7-day gross production rates have averaged 325 barrels per day of crude oil and 3.7 million cubic feet per day of natural gas. With the rich 1275 BTU gas, also yielding significant natural gas liquids, providing an average liquids rate per well of over 750 barrels per day and 2.9 million cubic feet per day of sales gas. We are continuing to ramp up drilling activity and are progressing both marketing and infrastructure plans for the play.

Exxon Mobil is also actively exploring several other early stage liquids-rich plays in the United States, including the Utica Shale play in eastern Ohio and western Pennsylvania. Our position in the Utica, stems from our recently completed acquisition of the Phillips companies, and represents incremental up-side to the Phillips acquisition which was focused on the Marcellus. The Phillips acquisition included 45,000 net acres prospective for the Utica in Ohio, and we have increased our position now to over 75,000 net acres. We anticipate drilling our first Utica wells in early 2012. Additionally, Exxon Mobil has a diverse portfolio of emerging unconventional resource opportunities outside of the US including several new plays with liquids potential. For example, in Germany and Argentina, we are in the early stages of evaluating several new tight oil opportunities. These opportunities represent a large and growing global portfolio of unconventional assets with the potential for significant value creation through the application of Exxon Mobil's advanced technologies, supplemented with strong operational and technology expertise from XTO.

Turning now to slide 11, with an update on our new synthetic lubricant basestocks project. During the quarter, Exxon Mobil Chemical announced plans to build a world-scale facility to manufacture metallocene polyalphaolefin or mPAO, a synthetic lubricant basestock at our integrated refining and chemical complex in baytown, Texas. This new facility will have the capacity to produce 50,000 tons per year of mPAO. This new, high viscosity, mPAO manufacturing capacity, demonstrates Exxon Mobil's technology leadership and our commitment to providing customers with the reliable supply of synthetic basestocks. Exxon Mobile Chemical is the world's largest PAO producer and offers the broadest range of advanced synthetic-based dock fluids. mPAO is primarily used in high performance synthetic lubricants and offers enhanced characteristics versus conventional PAO such as improved sheer and low-temperature properties.

Demand for high-performance lubricants is increasing, due to the greater emphasis placed on energy efficiency, improved equipment reliability, and extended drain intervals. This investment leverages Exxon Mobil's proprietary metallocene catalyst process and enables development of innovative synthetic lubricants that can help address lubrication challenges across a wide range of market sectors. This new plant at the Baytown complex, will be an important addition to our synthetic basestock manufacturing portfolio, which includes production facilities in Texas, New Jersey, and France, as well as various custom manufacturing arrangements around the world. Engineering, procurement, and construction activities have begun, and completion is expected in 2013.

Turning now to the Upstream financial and operating results starting on slide 12, Upstream earnings in the third quarter were $8.4 billion, up $2.9 billion from the third quarter of 2010. Stronger crude oil and natural gas realizations increased earnings by $3 billion. As crude oil realizations increased $32 per barrel and gas realizations increased $1.34 per kcf. Production mix and volume effects decreased earnings by $660 million, due mainly to the impact of lower entitlement volumes in West Africa, and base decline partly offset by the ramp up of Qatar, Sakhalin, and Iraq projects. Earnings were also positively impacted by the timing of liftings. All other items, primarily gains from asset divestments partly offset by higher exploration and operating expenses, increased earnings by approximately $600 million. Upstream after tax earnings per barrel for the third quarter of 2011 were $21.31.

Moving now to slide 13, oil equivalent volumes decreased 4% from the third quarter of last year, mainly due to the impact of lower entitlement volumes in West Africa, decline and divestments. Volumes were positively impacted by the ramp-up of projects in Qatar, Sakhalin, and Iraq and continued strong performance in our US unconventional resources business.

Turning now to sequential comparison starting on slide 14. Versus the second quarter of 2011, Upstream earnings decreased by $147 million. Lower realizations decreased earnings by $450 million, as crude oil realizations declined by over $5 per barrel. Production mix and volume effects decreased earnings by $90 million due mainly to lower entitlement volumes in West Africa and Iraq. Lower seasonal demand in Europe and decline. Earnings were positively impacted however, by fewer maintenance activities and the timing of liftings. Other items, primarily gains from asset divestments and favorable foreign exchange impacts, partially offset by higher exploration and operating expenses, increased earnings by $390 million.

Moving to slide 15, oil equivalent volumes decreased 3% from the second quarter of 2011, due mainly to lower entitlement volumes in West Africa and Iraq, lower seasonal demand in Europe and decline, partially offset by fewer maintenance activities. Lastly, I'll note that year-to-date oil equivalent volumes increased 5%, or 226,000 oil equivalent barrels per day, compared to the first 9 months of 2010. Excluding the impacts of lower entitlement volumes, quotas, and divestments, production was up over 8% and remains consistent with the 2011 volume guidance we communicated at the March analysts meeting of 3% to 4% growth versus 2010. For further data on regional volumes, please refer to the press release and the IR supplement.

Moving now to the Downstream financial and operating results and starting on slide 16. Downstream earnings in the third quarter were $1.6 billion, up $419 million from the third quarter of 2010. Improved refining margins increased earnings by over $1 billion. Continued benefits from our refining optimization activities contributed $110 million in volume and mix effects. Other factors, including unfavorable foreign exchange effects and lower gains on asset sales, decreased earnings by $710 million.

Moving to slide 17, sequentially, third-quarter Downstream earnings increased $223 million. Positive margin effects increased earnings by $360 million, while volume and mix effects increased earnings by $270 million, driven by refining optimization and lower maintenance activity. Other factors decreased earnings by $410 million largely due to unfavorable foreign exchange effects. Turning now to the Chemical, financial, and operating results starting on slide 18, third-quarter Chemical earnings were $1 billion, a decrease of $226 million versus the third quarter of 2010. Margins improved earnings by $50 million, while higher planned maintenance contributed to a negative $110 million volume and mix effect. Other factors decreased earnings by $170 million, primarily due to unfavorable tax effects and higher planned maintenance costs.

Moving now to slide 19, sequentially, third-quarter Chemical earnings decreased by $318 million. Lower commodity Chemical margins decreased earnings by $130 million, reflecting lower global demand consistent with the softening global economy. Volume mix effects decreased earnings by $50 million. Other effects decreased earnings by $140 million primarily due to unfavorable foreign exchange effects and higher planned maintenance costs. While the Chemical business is cyclical in nature, we continue to leverage feed advantage, integration and premium product offerings that outperform throughout the cycle and maintain a positive long term outlook on the business.

Moving to slide 20, while we manage our Downstream and Chemical businesses separately, we continue to capture benefits from the unique integration and optimization of these businesses. Third-quarter earnings were $2.6 billion for our combined Downstream and Chemical businesses.

Moving to slide 21, Exxon Mobil's third-quarter financial and operating performance was strong and reflects the ability of our business model and competitive advantages to deliver strong results. As we continue to focus on operational excellence, deploy high impact technologies, and leverage our unparalleled global integration, Exxon Mobil remains well positioned to maximize long-term shareholder value. That concludes my prepared remarks. I will now be happy to take your questions.

Questions and Answers

DAVID ROSENTHAL: (Operator Instructions).

OPERATOR: We'll take our first question from Doug Terreson with ISI.

DOUG TERRESON, ANALYST, ISI GROUP: Hi, David, how are you.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Good morning, Doug, how are you?

DOUG TERRESON: Good. Globally, the profitability seems to be rising, especially overseas which appears to be off-setting some of the weakness in the US. My question is whether you could provide a little bit more insight into the Upstream profitability trends, that is, in relation to the level of realizations or margins that may be called -- meaning are there other international mix effects besides the ramp-ups in the 3 countries you mentioned, and in the states, are the trends as simple as lower oil, but higher gas production related or are there other factors at work?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Let me actually answer those questions in reverse order. The impact you do see in the US is a mix effect, with some lower liquids production, being offset on a volume basis by higher gas production, overall, as we've trended in the last year or so. And you've seen that impact on our volume mix effects. Overseas, I would say most of the changes that you see there is really the benefit we're seeing in the project ramp-ups, in particular the Qatar trains. And you see that both in our non-US profitability, as well as the strength of our non-US gas realizations. So, those would be the primary factors.

DOUG TERRESON: Good. Also, you mentioned that Netuna was progressing, slowly but surely. And on Netuna, I wanted to see if we could a little bit more of a status update on that project, and specifically, whether you guys feel the partnership structure is settled, and also whether you believe current technology is present to effectively develop that project. Just a little bit of an update on that one.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Sure. Even though this project has been around a while and we've been looking at it and working on it. We're still in early days in terms of the definition of the project, the partnership, et cetera. I was pleased to report this morning that Exxon Mobil, Pertamina, Total, and Petronas have signed this principles of agreement, which will relate to the plan for exploration and development of the area. So while the POA is a good first step, I have to say we're still in the early days of bringing that project along and those negotiations for the final PSC are on-going.

DOUG TERRESON: I understand. Thanks a lot.

OPERATOR: Iain Reid with Jefferies.

IAIN REID, ANALYST, JEFFERIES & COMPANY: Good morning.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Good morning, Iain.

IAIN REID: I wonder if you'd give us an update on the Rosneft deal; in particular, where are you on negotiating the tax terms? Is there any special tax breaks that you're looking for in order to make this project work? And also, I think you are going to swap some assets with Rosneft in the US. Any decisions being made on which particular assets you're going to do that deal on? And I've got a question of chemicals after that if I can.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Sure. Let me hit both of those questions on that strategic cooperation agreement. In terms of tax terms and other issues around the definitive agreements, I can tell you work on those agreements is progressing on schedule. We're working very closely with Rosneft on that deal. And that's progressing. I can say in terms of, in particular, on fiscal terms, the Russian government does recognize the need for fiscal improvements in the offshore, and we are working with them to define how that might end up at the end of the day. But, I can't give a specific time frame for the finalization of those agreements other than to say work is progressing. In terms of the second question, I wouldn't refer to it as asset swaps, necessarily. I think a better way to portray it, is Rosneft will be given the opportunity to participate in various properties in the US.

For example, in the Gulf of Mexico, in the deep water, they will have an opportunity to farm in to some of our 100%-owned blocks. And they are evaluating those opportunities to make a decision. They may also take an interest in some of our unconventional resources in the US. And they're looking at that as well and what those opportunities might be. There is also potential for cooperation and joint partnership in other pieces of the business overseas, but again, those have yet to be finalized. I will say that we're looking forward to the multiple joint ventures and personnel exchanges that we're going to see in this agreement. And I think this will help really strengthen the relationship between the 2 companies, as well as provide valuable development opportunities for our staff. It's as the title suggested -- is a strategic cooperation agreement, and that includes technology development, that we've also talked about including the Arctic Research Center. So a number of things going on. And I would say again, early days, but things are progressing on schedule.

IAIN REID: Okay, thanks. And my Chemical question was, you talked about margin weakness in the second and third quarter. Is this a global GDP slowdown thing you are seeing in Asia, or the OECD, or where is that bit of weakness coming from? And do you think this is something which will extend into the fourth quarter and into next year now?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Let me hit the first part of that. As we've looked at margin trends sequentially across the last couple of quarters, we are seeing demand weakness overall and that has backed up into some downward pressure on margins. Asia is probably at bottom of cycle, if you look at historic trends. But we've also seen some weakening demand and margin pressure in Europe as well. Back again on the Asia side, there's a little bit of oversupply across some of the commodity products and that's pressuring margins. So once again we're reminded that this is a cyclical business, and the profits that we're earning now are certainly very strong given where we are in an otherwise pretty weakened economic environment, and in particular commodities.

Although I will say on the specialty side of the business, that business is holding up pretty well both from a volume and a margin standpoint. And we look at earnings decline across the last few quarters, most of that has been in the commodities section, as the specialties business has held up well.

As we look forward in the fourth quarter of next year, it's hard to judge what's going to happen although I will say, as you would expect, there'll be a close tie between economic activity levels and certainly the profitability of the commodity side of the business.

IAIN REID: Okay, thanks. A little bit of good news out of Europe for a change today.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Maybe.

OPERATOR: We'll take our next question from Evan Calio with Morgan Stanley.

EVAN CALIO, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Good morning. First question, on the US unconventional portfolio, last call you mentioned you're running 65 to 70 rigs. Can you update us on the rig count this quarter? And secondly, the commodity strip has come down very different than oil on the natural gas side. How do you consider any activity response to the environment? Or can you quantify -- I know you highlighted Woodford Ardmore and Utica. Can you quantify shift within that portfolio towards liquids. And I have a follow-up on the Black Sea.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Sure. As you mentioned, the environment has weakened a little bit on gas prices here in the US. I can tell you across the quarter, we're averaging right around 64, 65 rigs in the unconventional space, about what we've been doing over the last year or so. I don't have a quantification of actual rig movement. But I can tell you, as would expect, we have optimized that rig count towards the liquids-rich plays and ramped up there. And certainly, in terms of keeping the overall total flat backed off on some of the dry gas areas. In particular, as I mentioned some of the these new plays that we're in, we're anxious to ramp up drilling activity there and are doing so. So, I think just as you would have expected, we are certainly optimizing that rig count towards the liquids-rich plays and in particular some of the newer things we're working on.

EVAN CALIO: Great, That makes a lot of sense. On the -- just a follow-up on the Black Sea questions. In terms of the onshore or offshore assets that Rosneft will have the option to farm into, is this primarily an acreage opportunity or is there an associated production potential as well, and you didn't mention any time on Kar Kar, you mention any seismic this year. Is that also a 2014 timetable with the Black Sea?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Yes. Let me clarify, in the Black Sea we've got seismic underway now. And we look to potentially drill in a well in 2014. When you go up to the Kara sea, we would expect to begin the seismic operations next year, and then potentially, if things work out, drill a well in the 2015 time frame.

EVAN CALIO: Any update on the Kastamonu well? I believe that -- is that still drilling in the Turkish Black Sea?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: When you look at the Kastamonu well, was our first well. We have finished drilling that well. I can tell you that we did not encounter commercial quantities of hydrocarbons. We plugged and abandoned that well, and we did take that dry hole expense in our earnings this quarter. I can also tell you we continue to evaluate the results of that well and the well we drilled last year, as we look at the overall play there. I think as you look out across the next several months, our plans in the Black Sea are to, once TPAO is finished -- they've got the rig now drilling one of their blocks, we'll then take the rig up to Romania and drill our first well. Whether we'll get that spudded at the end of the year or it rolls into the first of the year, it depends on timing of the return of the rig. That will be the order. We'll drill Romania next, and then we'll evaluate based on the results and what we're seeing from our evaluation of the earlier wells, what the go- forward plan is there.

EVAN CALIO: If I could just slip in just one other. I know on the Hadrian discovery -- a large discovery. I know you were testing a deeper objective. Any update there?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: I'm glad you asked that, because I do have an update on that for everyone this morning. We have finished the well. We drilled to TD. And I can update for you now the pay that we have logged is now 1000 feet. I think if you look at how we've gone, we initially talked about 500 feet and then we updated it last quarter to 750 feet. And I can now confirm that the well has encountered more than 1000 feet of net oil and gas pay. And we are progressing. Plans for additional drilling, as we continue to evaluate what has turned out to be a very high quality prospective block.

EVAN CALIO: That's great news. Development plans, can we hear those soon?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: We're working on it. And as soon as those things are better progressed, we'll talk about those. At least for now, the news is good and again we are very pleased with the quality of this discovery in the Gulf of Mexico.

EVAN CALIO: Good news, thank you, David.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Our next question from Jason Gammel with Macquarie.

JOHN NELSON, ANALYST, MACQUARIE RESEARCH EQUITIES: Thanks. This is John Nelson for Jason Gammel.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: John, how are you today?

JOHN NELSON: How's it going?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Very good, thank you.

JOHN NELSON: Congrats on the quarter. Just wondering if I could get color on the 76,000 barrels per day of entitlement volumes that is you lost in the quarter. Just curious if there was any particular region that stood out or you could quantify that.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Sure, the primary area there is West Africa, as it was frankly when you look quarter-on-quarter, but if you're looking specifically sequentially, the bulk of that is in West Africa.

JOHN NELSON: Okay. And then just wondering, real quickly. Could you have any -- could you quantify any out of period tax charge taken in 3Q for the change in the UK tax law?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Yes, I can give you an update on that. That number was less than $100 million impact on our earnings this quarter.

JOHN NELSON: Less than $100 million including 3Q? Or specifically for out of.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: No, that would be the 3Q impact on earnings, just under $100 million.

JOHN NELSON: Great. Thank you.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Our next question from Doug Leggate with Bank of AmericaMerrill Lynch.

DOUG LEGGATE, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Thanks, good morning, David.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Good morning, Doug, how are you?

DOUG LEGGATE: Good. Thank you. Just a couple of quick ones. Going back to an earlier question on the strength of the international realizations. It's my favorite topic right now. Can you talk about the impact of Qatar this quarter. It looked like international gas realizations were flat despite a lower brand price and wondering if that was some kind of movement in the direction of the sales volumes after the downtime in Q2, and I've got a quick follow-up please.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: You hit it spot on, Doug. That is exactly what we saw. The impact of the higher volumes into the L and G market and in the impact on the overall realization that we saw internationally. So, you got that right.

DOUG LEGGATE: Do you think it's fair to describe that as a big factor in what's improving your international realizations.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Yes, I'd say that was the primary factor.

DOUG LEGGATE: Okay, great. The follow-up I have is really -- I don't know if you're going to be able to answer this one. You and I have had discussions about Kearl in the past, and given that we're getting close to seeing startup next year, albeit the end of the year, the economics have come under a bit of scrutiny. And I wonder if you could clear things up in terms of how Exxon sees the economics of Kearl and how it stacks relative to some of your other projects. And I will leave it at that.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Sure, Doug, that is a good question, and it stems from the discussion we initiated at the analysts meeting in March. I can tell you that as we've looked at this, that the Kearl returns are in the range of all the projects that Exxon Mobil participates in the deep-water Gulf of Mexico. When we look at the projects that we're involved in and those economics, and compare those to Kearl, I can confirm the returns are going to be consistent within that portfolio.

DOUG LEGGATE: Any perhaps update on the timing of the future expansions beyond Phase I?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: No, I can't give you the timing on the future expansion. As soon as we've got that thing locked down, we'll let you know. But we haven't made the final determination on that just yet.

DOUG LEGGATE: Thanks a lot, David.

OPERATOR: Our next question from Mark Gilman with The Benchmark Company.

MARK GILMAN, ANALYST, THE BENCHMARK COMPANY: David, good morning.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Good morning, Mark.

MARK GILMAN: Could I stick with the Kearl project for the just a second. Wonder if you could, given to 75% complete, give us an update on what the Phase I development cost looks like? Whether it's still along the lines of $100,000 of daily flowing barrel?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Yes, if you look at, as I mentioned, that we are 75% complete and that's going along very well. In terms of the cost, they've not changed from what we told you in March at the analysts meeting on the chart we showed. Those things are still the same as we mentioned at the time.

MARK GILMAN: Okay, if I could follow up with just some PSC related stuff. Looks to me as if there was a tranche effect encountered in West Africa. Is that accurate? Was it Nigeria or Angola? Also you mentioned lower entitlement in Iraq which strikes me, given the spending profile there, to be just a bit curious. Hopefully, you can flesh that out for me.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: We did have a tranche change in Nigeria, and that did impact part of those volumes. And I'm sorry, what was the second part of the question?

MARK GILMAN: You had indicted lower entitlements in Iraq, which struck me strange in light of the spending profile going forward as well as the price environment. Can you clarify what was going on there, maybe even provide an entitlement production number for Iraq in the period?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Yes, sure. Basically the situation in Iraq is quite simple. We became cost current last quarter and so during the second quarter we were catching up. The production barrels that we had reflected that, and this quarter those volumes have come down because we are cost current.

MARK GILMAN: Thank you, David.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Thank you.

OPERATOR: We'll take our next question from Paul Cheng with Barclays Capital.

PAUL CHENG, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Hi, good morning.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Good morning, Paul.

PAUL CHENG: Dave, a couple questions. First, can you tell us what is the asset sales gain, the actual amount in the third quarter, in the second quarter of this year, and whether they are primary in the D and P Segment.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Are you talking about the divestment gains?

PAUL CHENG: Yes.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: If you look at our divestments, most of the gains that we've seen in the second quarter, or in the third quarter, rather, were in the upstream. And as you look at the second quarter overall, we did have a series of divestments in the upstream and also some in the downstream. The place you really see the impact of the divestments this quarter, without giving a specific number, it's the biggest driver if you look quarter-over-quarter and even sequentially, and the other factor on our earnings waterfall chart there. The primary driver of those positive results are the divestments we had over the quarter.

PAUL CHENG: So it's roughly about $400 million sequentially higher asset sales gain?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: No. That's the total in there. There were some asset sales gains in there. But there were a number of other factors. We had some favorable 4 X and then we also had the increase in exploration expense. So again, without quoting a specific number on the asset divestments, I can tell you when you look at both of those waterfall charts, that's the primary driver of the positive impact.

PAUL CHENG: Because the second quarter does have a reasonable, sizable asset sales gain also, right?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: We did have some asset gains in the second quarter as well.

PAUL CHENG: Okay. And when you're talking about the foreign exchange unfavorable impact. Are those related to the translation of the balance sheet or is actually cash earning due to the impact on your calls as well as the translation back to the US dollar when you're the revenue side?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Yes, the primary impact that you see in the downstream on the unfavorable 4 X I mentioned is really the impact on the US dollar accrued payables that we have in the downstream.

PAUL CHENG: Okay. So on the balance sheet item?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Yes.

PAUL CHENG: Can I sneak in one final one?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Sure.

PAUL CHENG: You're talking about the production and driving into the shale oil, is there any number you can share what is your current well cost that you're running in Bakken? What in Permian basin and what is the EUR you are expecting and also the 30 day IP on those?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: I don't have additional details to share this morning other than the ones I mentioned in my prepared remarks. As you look at some of those plays, obviously, with the early wells that we are drilling and some of the optimizations we are doing, it really wouldn't be representative to start talking about well costs and that sort of thing because our expectation is as time goes on, those costs are going to go way down. I think what's encouraging though, is the significant addition we're making to our overall unconventional portfolio with the bulk of that here, as I mentioned this morning giving you an update on how we are doing on the liquids-rich plays.

PAUL CHENG: What is your total production in the third quarter for the shale oil?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: I don't have a specific breakout number for that in the quarter. I can tell you it's certainly going up. I mentioned a couple of examples. While it's a little premature to start talking about absolute volumes, I think the important thing for everyone to know is the activity is ramping up. The rigs are ramping up. The drill wells are ramping up. And we're progressing. I will give you a couple of examples, just for example. We've added 38 wells year-to-date in the Bakken, with 18 of those in the third quarter. I think that gives you a good feel of how the activity is going, and once we get a little farther down the curve we'll talk more about specific volumes.

PAUL CHENG: Thank you.

OPERATOR: We'll take our next question from Allen Good with Morningstar.

ALLEN GOOD, ANALYST, MORNINGSTAR: Good morning, David.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Good morning, Allen.

ALLEN GOOD: I had a quick question on LNG, and Golden Pass. It looked like this week, there was movement as far as viability of exports from the US. Just wanted to get your thoughts on how Exxon views, essentially LNG as a US and Golden Pass, and whether you're actually importing any LNG into the US currently?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: If you step back and look at the viability, first of all, of just LNG exports out of the US. That's a topical discussion today, and a lot of folks are looking at it and talking about it. I don't think it would come to any surprise to you know, that any marketing opportunity or development opportunity out there, certainly one that we're looking at, across the board, whether it's in the US or Canada. I can tell you though that Golden Pass is an LNG receiving terminal, and there are no current plans to change that into any form of an export terminal. So that's the status there. We've not brought any cargoes in recently that I'm aware of into the terminal. But it does remain obviously a very valuable asset for us. Other than that, I don't have any other comments to make. It will be interesting to see as time goes on if the viability of LNG exports materializes. That's just one of a number of options that are out there.

ALLEN GOOD: Last quarter you mentioned that drilling in Argentina would start in Q4. I was just wondering if that's still on track and any there's any sort of changes as far as outlook there given some of the recent tax announcements and changes with the government in Argentina.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: I'll start at the end and backup. We don't have changes contemplated in our plans at this point. We do have 2 wells that we're working on in the fourth quarter, consistent with what I mentioned last quarter and those wells are progressing. I don't have any results for you on that yet but we are working on those. The one thing I think that I alluded to in my prepared remarks and I've talked about the Nakin basin before and our large acreage position there. We are looking at the potential there for not only shale gas but also tight oil and shale oil. And so that's encouraging and we'll be progressing that, and as I mentioned, several other tide oil plays that are emerging that we're actively working on. Back to your basic question, no change in our plans in Argentina and the 2 wells are progressing.

ALLEN GOOD: And one more quick one, it looks like you added 1 rig from last quarter in Iraq. Do you have a goal as far as an exit rate on rigs there for the end of the year or an eventual plateau rate on rigs going into next year?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: No, I don't have anything specific on either of those. There are a lot of factors that will drive that. The real important milestone that we've reached is we've gotten up to 370,000 barrels a day. The 6 rigs are running. A lot of workover activity. And again, that progress is going very well. But I wouldn't want to speculate on what something might look like down the road either next quarter or after that.

ALLEN GOOD: All right. Thank you.

OPERATOR: We'll take our next question from Pavel Molchanov with Raymond James.

PAVEL MOLCHANOV, ANALYST, RAYMOND JAMES & ASSOCIATES: Thanks for taking my question. Dave, if I may want to downstream first. I believe Exxon is the only company in your peer group that has not been actively looking to sell refining assets in the past let's say 1 to 2 years. I'm just curious what you see in the refining market that seems to be different from what many of your peers are perceiving.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: That's a good question. Let me clarify that. Because, in fact, we have had some recent announcements about asset divestitures which include refining assets. You might recall over the course of the last several months, we announced divestitures in Argentina, various areas in Central America, and then most recently, the Malaysia downstream asset sales. So we have had quite a number of asset sales over the last year or so and again, they do include some refining assets. Now, if you look at refining in general across the board, as we talked about on many occasions, one of the tremendous competitive advantages we have in our refining circuit versus others is the full integration with most of our refineries, with the Chemicals and the Loops business. As we continue to optimize those facilities and get the kind of profitability and returns on those that we're generating, I wouldn't expect us to see a lot of change. So we're comfortable in what we're doing. We don't proactively tout major divestment objectives or programs. But as you look back across the years, we have been very active and have divested a number of assets, as those assets turned out to be worth more to others than they were to us. And we'll see what happens going forward. But right now we're in pretty good shape.

PAVEL MOLCHANOV: I appreciate that and just to be clear, I was mainly thinking North America and Europe. But the color on that is definitely useful. And secondly on Poland, some press articles in the past week mentioning your first frack job in the Polish shale acreage. Just an update on that would be great.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: We have a couple of wells there that we're in the process of fracking and flowing and cleaning up those wells. It would really be a little early for me to give you any initial results because we're just now literally, as we sit here working on those, and flowing them and testing them and seeing what we got. So as we get through the evaluation stage and clean those wells up and see how they perform, we'll be in a better position to perhaps give some color on that. But today it's just working on the operations.

PAVEL MOLCHANOV: We'll wait until the Q4 call. Thanks, Dave.

OPERATOR: Our next question from Ed Westlake with Credit Suisse.

ED WESTLAKE, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Hey, David. A lot of questions already answered. But can I come back to the entitlement issue. Basically, Q3 -- obviously it doesn't affect cash flow, but Q3 should be a better base if we're trying to get the volumes right going forward if you kept the oil prices flat?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: There are a number of things that affect the entitlement volumes. One, of course, not only the price, but the spend as well. When you look sequentially at the at that impact that we had, the 76 kbd, a fair amount of that was actually due to spending being down and the thus the recoupment volumes going down as the tranche change that I mentioned. So, in a constant price environment, you wouldn't see as big of an effect obviously. You would be more down to spending rates and of course, tranche changes. We did see pretty big movement, particularly quarter-on-quarter with that $30 increase in oil prices. And then again, sequentially, more spend-driven, rate of spend-driven, as well as Iraq being a cost current.

ED WESTLAKE: Okay. And then 2 small questions. The asset gains, you actually have a number for the asset gain in ENP in the quarter? You mentioned $600 million, a combination of a couple of things in there.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: I tell you, Ed, I don't have a specific number associated just with the asset divestments to talk about this morning. Again, I'll confirm, though, when you look at both the quarter- over-quarter as well as the sequential, the primary factor again driving the other earnings impact -- are the impacts of the divestments. Then there were a number of other things up and down.

ED WESTLAKE: Right. And then in R&M, the actual FX impact?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Sure, the actual impact in the downstream if you're looking third quarter '11 versus third quarter '10 was right at $300 million negative.

ED WESTLAKE: Right.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: And if you're looking, I'll just tell you if you are looking sequentially, it was also close to $300 million negative so fairly sizable 4X effects in the downstream this quarter.

ED WESTLAKE: Great. And obviously, there was a mix effect in terms of volumes with the liquids change, the flag $117 millions of extra tax and chemicals. The 47% rate was still a little high. Is anything else changing apart from the UK?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: There are a couple of other factors I'd mention. One, of course is the mix of profitability in terms of upstream, downstream, and US, non-US. And then you have the that effect where we had the absence of a few tax effects in chemicals and in core (inaudible) from last year and then a few negative impacts this year and the difference between those 2 also contributes to that 2 percentage point increase.

ED WESTLAKE: Right. Okay. Thanks very much, David.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Okay.

OPERATOR: We have a question, a follow-up from Mark Gilman with The Benchmark Company.

MARK GILMAN: David, there's been a lot said in some of the press regarding extensive maintenance activities on the gutter gas trains. Can you help us out a little bit and quantify to the best you can what that looks like for you in terms of both Qatar gas and ross gas both in the third quarter and for the balance of the year?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: If you look at the down time that we've seen in the Qatar trains, particularly over the last couple of quarters, I'll tell you that the work is done. And those trains are up. And we actually saw as we came from the second quarter into the third quarter, we actually had less maintenance and some improved volume performance out of that in the third quarter. So, now it is just normal operations. We did see improvement from the second quarter into the third quarter.

MARK GILMAN: Is there anything remaining that needs to be taken down for maintenance purposes in the fourth quarter?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: I'm not aware of anything major in the fourth quarter, so I would expect you could see basically normal operations.

MARK GILMAN: Okay, David. Thanks very much.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Our final question today comes from Paul Cheng with Barclays Capital.

PAUL CHENG: Dave, just 2 quick ones. You talk about the over-lift in the third quarter. Can you give us a number how much is over-lift and at the end of September from an inventory standpoint, are you still over-lift, under-lift or neutral?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: That's a good follow-up from the last quarter where I had mentioned how under-lifted we were. If we look sequentially, which is probably the best way to look at our net over-lift position, we were slightly over-lifted this quarter and under-lifted last quarter and that gave a net over-lift of about 80,000 barrels a day quarter-to-quarter on a net basis.

PAUL CHENG: So 80,000 barrels a day net over-lift? Is that at the end of September or sequentially?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: No, that's sequentially. So if you look, we were under-lifted. I think I mentioned in the second quarter about 69,000 barrels a day. We were over-lifted in the third quarter by about 14,000 barrels a day. And so the delta between those 2 is about 83,000 barrels.

PAUL CHENG: And at the end of the September, are you, from an inventory standpoint, are you now pretty much spondant?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Yes, where we are year-to-date we're probably pretty close. It may be a little under or over either way. But I think we're close on a year to date basis.

PAUL CHENG: Will you be able to share with us how much is the production you actually booked in from Iraq in the third quarter?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: No. As we typically do, I don't typically give a country specific number. But I can tell you as I mentioned earlier in the call, some of that change we saw in the net interest or rather in the entitlements column was Iraq getting cost current. But the most important thing in Iraq is that gross number which we have gotten up to 370,000 barrels a day and that's a real milestone for us.

PAUL CHENG: Thank you.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: All right. Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Mr. Rosenthal, there are no further questions in the queue. I'll turn it back to you for any closing remarks.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: I'd just like to say thank you to everybody for the participating in the call and have a good day.

OPERATOR: This does conclude today's conference. We appreciate your participation.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
exxn : Exxon Mobil Corporation | rsneft : Rosneft Oil Company OJSC | rosnft : Rosneftegaz
   IN
i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1300003 : Crude Petroleum Extraction | iextra : Natural Gas/Oil Extraction
   NS
c151 : Earnings | m143 : Energy Markets | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | m14 : Commodity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | qatar : Qatar | arg : Argentina | asiaz : Asia | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | gulfstz : Persian Gulf Regions | lamz : Latin America | meastz : Middle East | namz : North America | samz : South America | vista : VISTA Countries | wasiaz : Western Asia
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020111110e7ar0063k
  


 HD
 Q2  2011  Exxon  Mobil Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
10,184 words
   PD
28 July 2011
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©011 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day and welcome to this Exxon Mobil Corporation second-quarter 2011 earnings conference call. Today's call is being recorded.

   TD
At this time for opening remarks, I would like to turn the call over to the Vice President of Investor Relations and Secretary, Mr. David Rosenthal. Please go ahead, sir.

DAVID ROSENTHAL, VP OF IR AND SECRETARY, EXXON MOBIL CORPORATION: Good morning and welcome to ExxonMobil's second-quarter earnings call and webcast. The focus of this call is ExxonMobil's financial and operating results for the second quarter of 2011. I will refer to the slides that are available through the Investor section of our website.

Before we go further, I would like to draw your attention to our customary cautionary statement shown on slide 2.

Moving to slide 3, we provide an overview of some of the external factors impacting our results. The global economy and energy markets are being influenced by slower growth and continued uncertainty in the macro environment. A sustained economic recovery remains elusive as a result of persistent sovereign debt concerns, sluggish business investment and lower consumer spending.

Energy markets continued to see strengthening in crude oil prices in the second quarter, while US natural gas prices showed a modest increase. Downstream industry refining and marketing margins also improved during the quarter, while commodity chemical margins weakened slightly.

Turning now to the second-quarter financial results, as shown on slide 4, ExxonMobil's second-quarter 2011 earnings, excluding special items, were $10.7 billion, an increase of $3.1 billion from the second quarter of 2010. Our effective tax rate for the quarter was 45%. Earnings per share for the quarter, excluding special items, were $2.18, up $0.58 from a year ago.

The Corporation distributed more than $7 billion to shareholders in the second quarter through dividends and share purchases to reduce shares outstanding. Of that total, $5 billion was distributed to purchase shares. Share purchases to reduce shares outstanding are expected to be $5 billion in the third quarter of 2011.

CapEx in the second quarter was $10.3 billion, up $3.8 billion from the second quarter of 2010, reflecting the increase in our US unconventional activities, including the recently-completed acquisition of the Phillips companies. Across our diverse portfolio, we continue to invest in robust projects through the business cycle to help meet global demand for crude oil, natural gas and finished products.

Our cash generation remains very strong, with $14.4 billion in cash flow from operations and asset sales. At the end of the second quarter, cash and marketable securities totaled $10.3 billion and debt was $16.5 billion.

The next slide provides additional detail on second-quarter sources and uses of funds. Over the quarter, cash and marketable securities decreased from $13.2 billion to $10.3 billion. The combined impact of strong earnings, depreciation expense, higher working capital and the benefit of our ongoing asset management program yielded $14.4 billion of cash flow from operations. Uses included additions to plant, property and equipment, or PP&E, of $7.8 billion and shareholder distributions of $7.3 billion.

Additional financing and investing reduced our cash and marketable securities by $2.2 billion, including the acquisition of the Phillips companies.

We will now provide a review of segmented results, starting on slide 6. ExxonMobil's second-quarter 2011 earnings of $10.7 billion increased $3.1 billion, or 41%, from the second quarter of 2010. Upstream earnings increased $3.2 billion, while Downstream earnings improved by $136 million. Chemical earnings were essentially flat.

Higher corporate and financing expenses decreased earnings $174 million versus the second quarter of 2010, due mainly to the absence of favorable tax items. Corporate and financing expenses remain within our continued guidance of $500 million to $700 million per quarter.

As shown on slide 7, ExxonMobil's second-quarter 2011 earnings of $10.7 billion were in line with the first quarter of 2011, mainly due to higher Downstream earnings offset by slightly lower Chemical and Upstream earnings.

Moving next to the second-quarter business highlights, and beginning on slide 8. We will begin with an update on a number of our Upstream liquids projects. During the quarter, we fully funded the Banyu Urip project on the Cepu Block in Indonesia. The full field development is expected to recover 450 million oil equivalent barrels of reserves and deliver gross production of 165,000 barrels per day via a 60-mile pipeline to an offshore floating storage and offtake vessel in the Java Sea.

In Eastern Canada, we achieved early oil production from the first well of the Hibernia Southern extension project. Project development will continue over the next few years, including drilling more wells and providing water injection capability, with full production plateau anticipated in 2014.

We also continue to ramp up activity in Iraq, and currently have five drilling rigs operating. Current gross production is approximately 340,000 barrels per day. We are also progressing front-end engineering and agreements for the common seawater supply project.

And lastly, we continue to make strong progress at Kearl, where we are currently 68% complete with construction.

Turning now to our exploration activities on slide 9. Beginning in the Black Sea, where ExxonMobil holds 6.6 million net acres, the Deepwater Champion drillship arrived in the second quarter. We are now drilling the Kastamonu exploration well in the Turkish Black Sea. We expect to have results from this high-risk, high-potential exploration well later this year.

In the US Gulf of Mexico, where ExxonMobil holds 2.1 million net acres, we made a significant oil discovery with the Hadrian-5 exploration well, which commenced drilling in March, three days after receiving permit approval from the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management.

As recently reported, the Hadrian-5 wildcat confirmed the presence of a second oil accumulation in Keathley Canyon block 919. The well encountered 475 feet of net oil pay and a minor amount of gas. We are drilling ahead to deeper objectives, and have encountered an additional 250 feet of net oil pay to date.

Combined with our other Keathley Canyon blocks, we estimate a recoverable resource of more than 700 million oil equivalent barrels, making this one of the largest discoveries in the Gulf of Mexico in the last decade. More than 85% of the resource is oil.

We are also working with our joint venture partners and other lessees in the area to determine the best way to safely develop these resources as rapidly as possible.

Turning now to the Phillips acquisition, on slide 10. ExxonMobil concluded the acquisition of the Phillips companies on June 2, 2011. The Phillips transaction included 317,000 net acres across the heart of the rapidly growing Marcellus Shale play and nearly doubles ExxonMobil's acreage to more than 700,000 net acres in the play. XTO will manage the Phillips assets from the recently established Appalachia Division, headquartered in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.

Given the proximity to our current operations in southwestern Pennsylvania, the addition of the Phillips acreage will create significant value by leveraging regional synergies and also makes ExxonMobil a leading leaseholder in the Marcellus.

The Phillips properties currently produce 50 million net cubic feet per day of natural gas, which includes both shallow gas and deeper Marcellus production.

Turning now to our total US unconventional portfolio on slide 11, in the US, XTO is currently managing total resources of 76 trillion cubic feet equivalent, which represents an increase of almost 70% from what was initially recognized at the time of the merger. As shown in the chart, nearly two thirds of the resource additions are from revisions and corporate transfers, demonstrating the benefit of the XTO merger. The revisions resulted from by-the-bit activities such as downspacing, additional development and new plays. Over 12 trillion cubic feet equivalent of resource additions have been added through acquisitions, including the 2010 Ellora Haynesville Bossier and Petrohawk Fayetteville Shale acquisitions, the 2011 acquisition of the Phillips companies and several other low-cost acquisitions. These resources were added at an average cost of approximately $0.28 per thousand cubic feet equivalent.

Turning now to our global unconventional portfolio on slide 12. ExxonMobil has a diverse portfolio of emerging unconventional resource opportunities with access to more than 10 million net acres in North and South America, Europe and Southeast Asia.

Beginning in Argentina, we hold approximately 240,000 net acres in the prospective Neuquen Basin and will begin drilling in the fourth quarter of 2011.

In Canada, we are continuing drilling in the Cardium and the Horn River Basins. In Colombia, we are preparing to begin core hole drilling in the fourth quarter to evaluate heavy oil potential.

In Poland, we are preparing for well testing, and in Germany, we are progressing permit approvals for our well-testing program. In China, we are progressing opportunities with the Chinese national oil companies to apply ExxonMobil's leading-edge technology to develop unconventional gas resources.

Finally, in Indonesia, we have commenced coalbed methane drilling in the quarter and are now on our third well in the Barito Basin. These opportunities represent a large and growing global portfolio of unconventional assets with the potential for significant value creation through the application of ExxonMobil's advanced technologies and XTO's strong operational and technical expertise.

Turning now to the Upstream financial and operating results, starting on slide 13. Upstream earnings in the second quarter were $8.5 billion, up $3.2 billion from the second quarter of 2010. Stronger crude oil and natural gas realizations increased earnings by $3.6 billion, as crude oil realizations increased approximately $36 per barrel and gas realizations increased $1.42 per Kcf.

Production mix and volume effects decreased earnings by $480 million, due mainly to the impact of lower entitlement volumes, downtime and decline, partly offset by the ramp-up of Qatar and Iraq projects and the addition of XTO. Additionally, earnings were negatively impacted by the timing of liftings. Upstream after-tax earnings per barrel were $21.35.

Moving to slide 14, oil-equivalent volumes increased 10% from the second quarter of last year, mainly due to growth in our US unconventional resource business and the impact of Qatar and Iraq project ramp-up. Volumes were, however, negatively impacted by lower entitlement volumes, divestments, downtime, lower gas demand in Europe and decline.

Turning now to the sequential comparison, starting on slide 15. Versus the first quarter of 2011, Upstream earnings decreased by $134 million. Stronger realizations improved earnings by $1.2 billion, as crude oil realizations increased over $11 per barrel. Production mix and volume effects decreased earnings by $1.1 billion, due mainly to lower seasonal demand in Europe, higher maintenance and the impact of lower entitlement volumes. Additionally, earnings were negatively impacted by the timing of liftings.

Other items, primarily higher exploration and operating expenses, decreased earnings by $310 million.

Moving to slide 16, oil-equivalent volumes decreased 9% from the first quarter of 2011, due mainly to lower seasonal demand in Europe, downtime and the impact of lower entitlement volumes. The facilities that experienced downtime during the second quarter of 2011 are now essentially up and running.

Lastly, I will note that year-to-date oil-equivalent volumes increased 10%, or over 400,000 oil-equivalent barrels per day compared to the first six months of 2010. Excluding the impacts of entitlement volumes, quota effects and divestments, production was up over 12% and remains consistent with the 2011 volume guidance we communicated at the March Analyst meeting of 3% to 4% growth versus 2010.

For further data on regional volumes, please refer to the press release and IR supplement.

Moving now to the Downstream financial and operating results, starting on slide 17, downstream earnings in the second quarter were $1.4 billion, up $136 million from the second quarter of 2010. Improved margins increased earnings by $60 million, primarily driven by improved industry refining margins. Continued benefits from our refining optimization activities contributed $150 million in volume and mix effects, while other factors were a negative $70 million.

Moving to slide 18. Sequentially, second-quarter Downstream earnings increased $257 million. Higher industry refining and marketing margins increased earnings by $350 million, while volume and mix effects decreased earnings by $50 million. Other factors were a negative $40 million.

Turning now to the Chemical financial and operating results, and starting on slide 19, second-quarter Chemical earnings were $1.3 billion, resulting in a record $2.8 billion of earnings for the first half of 2011. This performance demonstrates the value of our balanced portfolio of commodity and specialty businesses, integrated worldscale facilities, premium products and technology applications that deliver superior feedstock advantage.

Second-quarter earnings were essentially even with the second quarter of 2010. Increased Chemical margins contributed $120 million, driven by strong demand. Volume and mix effects lowered earnings by $90 million, mainly due to higher planned maintenance activities. Other effects decreased earnings by $80 million.

Moving to slide 20, sequentially, second-quarter Chemical earnings decreased $195 million. Lower margins decreased earnings by $80 million, primarily due to weaker global aromatics margins. Other effects decreased earnings $110 million, due mainly to higher turnaround and maintenance costs and some unfavorable tax benefits.

Moving to slide 21. While we manage our Downstream and Chemical businesses separately, we continue to capture benefits from the unique integration and optimization of these businesses. Looking at our combined Downstream and Chemical results, second-quarter earnings were $2.7 billion.

Moving to slide 22, ExxonMobil's second-quarter financial and operating performance was strong, and reflects the ability of our business model and competitive advantages to deliver strong results. As we continue to focus on operational excellence, deploy high-impact technologies, and leverage our unparalleled global integration, ExxonMobil remains well-positioned to maximize long-term shareholder value.

That concludes my prepared remarks. I would now be happy to take your questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Doug Terreson, ISI.

DOUG TERRESON, ANALYST, ISI: Hi, David, how are you?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Good morning, Doug. How are you?

DOUG TERRESON: Doing great. I have a question, really just kind of a clarification. In the Upstream, you mentioned that the other item, which was fairly meaningful this quarter, which was $310 million, was exploration and something else. What was that something else, number one? And number two, was most of the delta this quarter exploration?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: If you are looking sequential at the $310 million, yes, the primary items there were the higher exploration expense, as well as some higher production OpEx associated with the maintenance activities I mentioned.

DOUG TERRESON: Okay. And then together, they add up to a decent-sized number. The $150 million in refining and marketing chemicals, just generally what were those?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: On the volume mix effects?

DOUG TERRESON: The other item, sequential?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Oh, sequential. Okay.

DOUG TERRESON: Yes, sorry.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Yes, if you are looking sequentially, on the Downstream earnings, the $40 million, there is really nothing significant to highlight. We did have some higher maintenance OpEx that I mentioned; that was the primary driver there.

DOUG TERRESON: Same in Chemicals, is that the way to think about it?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: In Chemicals, if you are looking at both, actually, sequentially and quarter over quarter, it is really higher turnaround OpEx (multiple speakers) the drivers there.

DOUG TERRESON: Okay. And also, you guys have obviously been very successful in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico. And I think you said you haven't even TD'd the exploration well yet. So it may be early, but do you have an idea as to future evaluation and approximate timing for that play? And also, is there transportation infrastructure in the area?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Well, if you look at what we are doing in the area -- and again, we do have a very nice oil discovery there -- and as we have mentioned publicly, we are going to work with our partners and other lessees in the area, particularly with the Lucius discovery, to take that well and include it with their reserves so we can get that production on safely and rapidly.

The rest of the block, of course, we have both the [Hazere] and North discovery, which is a standalone oil discovery that will not be included in that unit. We are working on what the optimal development scenario of that might be. And we have also announced that the Hadrian South discovery, which is gas, will also be processed up through the assets in the Lucius discovery, again, to get that gas to market.

So it is very fortunate that we have the ability to monetize a big portion of those reserves quickly. But at the same point, we are pretty excited, we are still drilling and we have got a lot of additional evaluation and appraisal to do out there. So it is a good success story and a nice opportunity to get some production on pretty quickly.

DOUG TERRESON: Sounds good, David. Thanks a lot.

OPERATOR: Blake Fernandez, Howard Weil.

BLAKE FERNANDEZ, ANALYST, HOWARD WEIL: Hi, David. Thanks for taking my question. Just wanted to clarify on Hadrian well we are talking that, you mentioned an incremental 250 feet of pay. I wanted to just confirm -- is that over and above what you had previously reported in the press release, and if so, does that indicate potential upside to the 700 million BOE?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: The answer to that is yes to both of your questions. That is in addition to what we had announced earlier, and certainly provides some upside. And also, as you know, is normal in this business that there will also be some redetermination opportunities as we progress the current development of the Hadrian-5 well.

So again, good news so far. Lots more to look at and evaluate. And certainly we will be evaluating the upside and we will assess the total that we have once we hit TD.

BLAKE FERNANDEZ: Okay, great, thanks. And my second question was on CapEx. If you look at the run rate for the first half of the year, it is an average of about $9 billion a quarter, which would kind of suggest about $36 billion total, which is maybe a couple of billion above what your guidance is. I am just curious, does the second half of year likely fall off a bit or are you maybe trending above where guidance was?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Well, I think the first thing to note is if you take out the Phillips acquisition, the CapEx in the first half is right in line with what we talked about at the March Analyst meeting. So ex-any acquisition opportunities that come along, I really don't have any different guidance than what we talked about earlier in the year.

BLAKE FERNANDEZ: Got it. Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Mark Gilman, The Benchmark Company.

MARK GILMAN, ANALYST, THE BENCHMARK COMPANY: David, good morning. If you could just help me and clarify in your sources and uses of funds and that reconciliation, exactly where is the Phillips acquisition showing up? I had thought it was in the additions to PP&E, and then there is this $2.2 billion item, which I guess, even with your comment, I still don't quite understand what it represents. You know was there debt associated with Phillips and that is part of that $2.2 billion?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Mark, thanks for the opportunity to clarify that. No, the entire $1.7 billion that we have paid for the Phillips acquisition is in that $2.2 billion number called additional financing and investing. (multiple speakers) So that is what that amount is. It is not in addition to PP&E.

MARK GILMAN: Okay. Was there debt associated with that acquisition, which I believe was a stock acquisition, not an asset acquisition?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: No, there was no debt associated with that.

MARK GILMAN: Okay. My second one, you referred in your comments to liftings and timing effects on the production numbers. Does that mean or should I assume that your liftings in the second quarter of '11 were lower than production, or was that delta versus the year-ago period associated with second quarter 2010?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: No, that is a good question. Let me clarify that. We were underlifted in the second quarter by about, in absolute terms, 69,000 barrels a day. And we were underlifted in the second quarter of last year about [26,000]. So the delta is an additional 43,000 barrel a day underlift.

And then sequentially, the factor was actually a little bigger. We were -- in the delta -- we were a little overlifted in the first quarter. So if we look at the delta between first and second quarters sequentially, we are net underlift position of 87,000 (technical difficulty).

MARK GILMAN: Try that last line one more time.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: If you are looking sequentially, we were underlifted in the second quarter 69,000 barrels a day. We were overlifted a little bit in the first quarter 18,000 barrels a day. So that net between quarters was 87,000 barrels a day (multiple speakers).

MARK GILMAN: Okay, got it. That 69,000 underlift, any particular region?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: The bulk of it was in West Africa and the North Sea.

MARK GILMAN: So relatively high-margin barrels?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Yes.

MARK GILMAN: Okay, David, thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Ed Westlake, Credit Suisse.

ED WESTLAKE, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Good morning David. Just a question on this CapEx. I mean, obviously, you are still responding after the XTO acquisition and picking up acreage here and there. I mean, should we think of sort of $2 billion here and there as a reasonable addition to your organic CapEx over the next couple of years?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: You know, I really don't have an answer to that because we don't have a specific target or objective. It is purely opportunistic. As I've mentioned before, we of course are pursuing resources around the world, including unconventional in the US, all the time. And when we find a really good opportunity like the Phillips acquisition, for example, where we can leverage either some already existing assets that we have or bring some technology to bear, we will take advantage of that opportunity.

But again, it is all about increasing value and particularly leveraging what we have in the base through the merger with XTO. As you kind of start to see on that chart that we showed, you are really starting to see how that acquisition has enabled the growth in that business that otherwise would have been very, very difficult to accomplish. And then in particular, when you look at the low cost that these incremental reserves and acreage are adding, you start to look across that portfolio, and then in addition, the opportunities that may come along for the additional volumes from overseas, you really start to see kind of what might be the value created by this global portfolio of unconventional assets. And again, with XTO as the enabler just a year ago, it is pretty remarkable that 12 months after this merger we have gone from 45 Tcf under management to 76 Tcf. So we are pretty pleased with that progress.

ED WESTLAKE: Maybe asking it a slightly different way. At 76 Tcf, do you think you have got enough, or do you think there are still going to be opportunities to continue to (multiple speakers)?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Well, you know, we never have enough. I hope we can find some additional opportunities. We are certainly pursuing those. And again, if we come across something that is attractive, that we can bring something to the party, to get value that others can't, we will of course take advantage of that. And again, as we have said from day one, we are looking for large, high-quality resources with upside potential where we can generate some synergies with the technology and operating expertise that we have. And again, we are actively pursuing those things, but without any specific target or objective.

ED WESTLAKE: And then one final question on the Downstream in the US. I guess perhaps a smaller uptick Q-on-Q than I guess I was looking for, given the market environment. And it could just be that 1Q was particularly strong or it could be that Q2 there were some operational hiccups. Can you talk to any [funnies] that might be between the sequential differences?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: As you mentioned, we did see some nice margin improvement in the US, particularly -- not only along the Gulf Coast, but as you are well aware of, in the MidCon area. We did have some downtime and maintenance in the second quarter. In particular, we were able to basically get back some of the volumes we lost in the first quarter from weather in the Gulf Coast; but that was offset by some maintenance activities in our Midwest refinery in Joliet.

ED WESTLAKE: Okay, thank you.

OPERATOR: Paul Cheng, Barclays Capital.

PAUL CHENG, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Hi, good morning. We heard from some industry news magazine talking about Papua, New Guinea, your LNG project may have some hiccup or some delay due to the labor or the way how the construction. So can you give us an update on what is going on over there, and is that going to result in any delay of the project startup?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: No, Paul -- thank you. I would be happy to give an update on that project. Things are going quite well. As a matter of fact, the project is progressing well. We have got project execution under way, including all the infrastructure development -- roads, bridges, site preparation camps, et cetera. We are scaling up the mobilization of the contractors as we get into the larger facility build. In fact, we have recently completed some very key milestones and the project continues as planned.

So I mean, there is always minor things that come up in any projects and we manage those, but as we look forward, the project is on target to deliver first LNG in 2014.

PAUL CHENG: Okay. Second question, in the second quarter, can you tell us what is the production we (inaudible) from your Iraqi project. And also then, you talk about the underlift in the second quarter and overlift in the first quarter. At the end of June, do you, from an inventory standpoint, (inaudible) or that you are underlift, overlift? As well as that in the second quarter, is there any meaningful (inaudible)?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Okay, Paul. Let me track all three of these. Okay, when we look at the Iraq project, as we typically don't give individual country volume numbers, I don't have a specific number for you from Iraq. I think the key issue in Iraq is the progress that we are making there. That is going very well. We have got five rigs running. I have got production in gross up to about 340,000 barrels a day. We are meeting our milestones. And we are working on the infrastructure necessary to continue to grow volumes.

As you know, the actual production that you might record in any given quarter is really going to be a function of the price in that quarter, as you divide your total revenue by the price to get the barrels. So I don't think that number would be as meaningful as really letting everybody know that the activity level is up, the production is up, we are meeting our expectations and things are going pretty well in Iraq.

If we look at the underlift position, I mentioned that in the second quarter, we were underlifted on an absolute basis about 69 Kbd. And that is kind of where we are at the end of the second quarter.

PAUL CHENG: So you are underlifted by about 69 at the end?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Yes.

PAUL CHENG: Okay. And then in terms of asset sales gains, (inaudible) meaningful asset sales gains in the second quarter? Given your cash proceeds on asset sales is about -- in the $1.7 billion, your capital base is pretty low. So I presume that you have some decent asset sales gain.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: We have an ongoing asset management program, and we have had some nice sales this year already. Of course, we had sales in the first quarter that we talked about. And in the second quarter, we did sell our gas-led assets in Europe and we did book an asset gain on that. I don't have a specific number for it, but that is included.

If you look quarter on quarter, in the second quarter, where we had the $60 million other effect, that asset gain is in that number.

PAUL CHENG: Dave, is that other sales you say is gas, so is in international E&P?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: I'm sorry. Excuse me, could you repeat that?

PAUL CHENG: The gain that you report, under which segment?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Oh, yes. That will be in the non-US E&P in the Upstream.

PAUL CHENG: Okay, thank you.

OPERATOR: Faisal Khan, Citigroup.

FAISEL KHAN, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Good morning. I just wanted to go back to your comments on the resources you've kind of -- the resource evolution of XTO. And I wanted to tie that, if I can, to the production volumes we have seen over the last few quarters.

It seems like overall US gas production volumes are relatively flat over the last few quarters and oil production is relatively flat too. So can you talk to me a little bit about the underlying growth of those assets and where we are today?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Sure. If you are looking at the -- let's talk about the XTO first and looking at that chart. Of course, the chart I showed is really the evolution of the resource base itself. And so most of that is acreage that we are just now evaluating, appraising, drilling and that sort of thing, so you don't see a whole lot of production from those resource adds just yet.

If you are looking at overall liquids and gas volumes in the US, if you are looking quarter on quarter, this year versus last year, you do see about 72,000 barrels a day increase in liquids. The bulk of that, of course, comes from XTO. And then you do see in the US about a 2.4 Bcf a day increase in gas. The bulk of that, of course, coming from XTO. So that gets you year over year.

When you are looking sequentially, first quarter into the second quarter, US liquids are flat. And that does reflect some improvement in the XTO volumes, offset by a decline in downtime effects. Gas as well in the US, about flat quarter on quarter sequentially. And that is just reflecting just kind of the normal decline, offset by the work programs.

And we also had, you might recall, a sale of some Gulf of Mexico assets, and that is contributing a little bit to the overall US numbers there. But overall, things are just as we expected.

FAISEL KHAN: So overall, you continue to expect this portfolio to grow production in the US over the foreseeable future?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Oh, sure. As we said in the Analyst Meeting, we do expect that production to grow over time, as we develop and bring some of these resources online. But of course, you know, that takes a little time and it is overtime, but we are working on it very aggressively.

FAISEL KHAN: Last question from me. In your refinery throughput volumes in Asia-Pacific, it looks like from the fourth quarter into the first quarter, those numbers went down for maintenance. And I thought -- in the second quarter, I thought your numbers would come back up, but it looks like volumes ticked down sequentially in Asia-Pacific first quarter, second quarter. I was wondering if we missed some sort of downtime or maintenance activity.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: It is. We did have continued maintenance, and it was actually a little higher even sequentially, second quarter versus first quarter. So second quarter was a big maintenance and turnaround quarter for us in general across the regions. But yes, you did see it in the Asia-Pacific area.

FAISEL KHAN: Okay. Are those facilities back up and running now at 100%?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Yes. You know -- 100%, I know that most of that maintenance and downtime is up and running, and certainly the turnarounds we are getting behind us.

FAISEL KHAN: Great. Thanks so much. Appreciate it.

OPERATOR: Evan Calio, Morgan Stanley.

EVAN CALIO, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Good morning David, how are you? Two questions. As you discussed, Exxon clearly leading the foray into unconventional gas and oil globally. And my question is on Polish Shale. I know we are approaching some important industry well results in the next few months. You have a second well in 4Q.

I guess with XTO's expertise, why not a faster rampup in Poland where we have very attractive royalties, receptive host country at least with the rash of hydrofracking concerns and then oil linked commodity prices? I mean why not why not a faster ramp there? And maybe you could discuss your recent farmout of 849% interest of the Podlasie Basin to Total.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Sure, let me step back and give you an overall update on Poland. Actually, we are progressing our activities there fairly rapidly. We had a 3D seismic acquisition program that we concluded in April of this year, and we have got -- we are currently processing those surveys on one of the concessions. And also we have drilled -- we drilled one well that we suspended in February. We drilled another well that we suspended in April. And well test activity on those wells is underway, and we would expect to have those results sometime in the fall.

So we are progressing what we would view as pretty aggressively here. And one of the things that, of course, helps that is the ability to leverage the XTO resources and have them help work on this, and both define the appraisal program as well as understand what we have there as we move forward. (multiple speakers) Excuse me?

EVAN CALIO: Yes, with local services recently when your competitors locked up Halliburton in a contract, I mean how do you see availability of services and how are you proceeding to make sure that you have what you need to develop that resource?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Well, clearly getting services is a challenge to the broader industry as we all advance our plans there. I can tell you without being specific in terms of contracts that we have in place that we don't have any issues with services and getting the facilities we need. So we are moving right along, and again, there is no obstacles in the way of progress and we continue to progress that fairly rapidly.

EVAN CALIO: Okay, good. Thank you. A second question, on international gas realizations. It is has typically been well-correlated with a lagged Brent. Some correlation has been dropping, which I guess would be a function of mix in Qatar volumes.

Can you provide any regional delivery destination on contracted LNG volumes generally? And then I guess it would be interesting to know what percent was moving into Asian markets, where slopes are north of 14 today.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Sure. Let me hit the latter one and then I will come back to the former one. There really hasn't been any change in the delivery destinations of the LNG coming out of Qatar. As we have said before, about two thirds of it is heading into the Asia-Pac area, and the other third, which is of course spot, some of that is going to Europe, some of it is going into the Asia-Pac area. So I think that strategy is working out very well.

We did see, when you look at the price realization, a bit of a mix effect in the quarter. We did have some downtime on the LNG trains. But that volume was offset by higher flowing gas deliveries into the local market.

As we have talked about before, the realizations and the margins in the local market are less than what you see, obviously, in the delivered LNG. So we did have a mix effect on the overall realization that you saw in our international gas business.

EVAN CALIO: And then just one last question on a matter of clarification. I think on volumes, you said in your remarks that volumes off-line in the quarter were -- they were out for maintenance or back. Were you referencing both European and Qatar gas volumes?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Yes, as we look out at where we have the maintenance and downtime over the quarter -- and again, a lot of that -- of course, a lot of that is your normal scheduled maintenance that you have seasonally in the second quarter, and so we saw some of that. And yes, that maintenance -- if you look at it, that maintenance by and large, that is back online. We do still have some stuff we are working on. But all of it is either online or coming online and will be up shortly.

EVAN CALIO: Okay, good stuff. Thank you, David.

OPERATOR: Iain Reid, Jefferies.

IAIN REID, ANALYST, JEFFERIES & COMPANY: Hi there, David. Can I ask you two questions? On the resource base you are showing there for XTO what you have managed to obviously improve significantly since the merger, can you say how much of that is liquids in terms of the way you have determined the resource?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: I don't have the exact split with me. I can tell you, obviously, the bulk of it is going to be gas. I know there is some liquids content in there, but I just don't have the breakdown of that resource.

IAIN REID: Okay. And just thinking more generally about your unconventional gas in the US in particular, you know, I think you have made statements about trying to shift some of your activities towards oil. Could we expect to see quite a lot of that resource remaining undeveloped at this sort of level of gas prices? Or how do you think about the kind of short-term economics of developing this enormous resource now in the US?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Let me make a couple of comments on that. Certainly we are optimizing the rigs and equipment that we have and the human resources that we have available to the highest-return opportunities, which of course does include trying to optimize that mix between liquids and gas volumes. And we are actively pursuing that, as are others, and that is going quite well.

I will tell you in the US, when we are looking at our gas wells, all of our gas wells are economically attractive that we are drilling. We have a paced development of the gas resources. We are fortunate that we have very few leases that we have to drill to hold. We have got a very high percentage held by production or fee property. So we are really able to maximize the returns we are getting and optimize where we are locating our drilling activity.

So as we look out today, we have got between 65 and 70 rigs running, and those rigs are drilling economically attractive rigs even at today's prices.

IAIN REID: How many of those rigs are drilling oil prospects -- or unconventional prospects?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Let's see. I don't know that I have that detailed breakdown. Clearly, when you look at the size and the relative size of our resource, most of them of course are in gas. I can tell you just as an example, we have got seven rigs running in the Bakken. That is up, as you know, from the rigs that were running at the time of the merger, so we continue to progress that.

And of course, we do have a number of rigs running in the Eagle Ford. If I recall right, that is about two rigs running in the Eagle Ford, for example. And we continue to access those resources as quickly as possible.

So I would say in summary, other than the Bakken and the Eagle Ford, anywhere we have an opportunity to optimize a rig and get it on liquids production, we are certainly doing that.

Another area, although I don't have the exact rig count, we are pursuing tight oil in West Texas. That is just another example of where we have ramped up that activity here recently. So overall, again, it is take that resource, optimize your people and your equipment for the highest impact wells. And that could be liquids and it could also be very attractive gas wells.

IAIN REID: Thanks, David. Could I just ask one more clarification, actually, which I think I missed earlier? What was the absolute volume number in terms of maintenance in the quarter in the Upstream?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Sure. If I look at maintenance, absolute level of maintenance in the Upstream for the quarter, we had about an extra 37,000 barrels a day, if you look at what we are doing in the second quarter of 2011 versus the second quarter of '10. And sequentially -- this is probably a more important number to you -- if I look sequentially first quarter to second quarter, we had right at 100,000 barrels a day additional maintenance in the second quarter compared to the first quarter.

IAIN REID: Thanks a lot, David. That's great.

OPERATOR: Doug Leggett, Bank of AmericaMerrill Lynch.

DOUG LEGGATE, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Hi, David, how are you? I am sorry to labor this maintenance issue. Clearly, there seems to be an issue relating to the kind of margins that came off-line. Could you quantify, please, the, if possible, order of magnitude as to the absolute maintenance off-line in the second quarter as opposed to the deltas versus prior quarters.

And if I may dig a little bit into Qatar in particular, because my understanding is you kind of got like $1, $1.50 type domestic prices versus oil-linked prices internationally. So if you could maybe quantify how much Qatar volumes are off-line also. And I have got a quick follow-up, please.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: I don't have any specific details on the absolute amounts of the downtime. I can tell you if you are looking sequentially in Qatar, we had about 27,000 barrels of oil equivalent a day off-line, as we did some work there. But that is the delta. I don't know what the absolute amounts were between the quarters. But we did see sequentially some maintenance activity there.

DOUG LEGGATE: Would it be fair to characterize that 27,000 as moving from oil-linked to something on the $1, $1.50 type level?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: I think you could see it as moving from delivered LNG as instead going in -- flowing gas into the country. I don't want to quote any prices or differentials. But as we have talked about before, the flowing gas into the domestic market sells at a much lower price than our delivered LNG does.

DOUG LEGGATE: Got it. My follow-up is just a very quick one. I don't know if you mentioned this earlier, and if you did, I apologize. I was late getting on the call. Cash flow, what was the working capital impact in the quarter? Because it looked a bit light relative to what the run rate should probably have been. I will leave it there. Thanks.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Sure. If you are looking just in the second quarter, we did see a working capital build of about $2 billion in the quarter.

DOUG LEGGATE: Great stuff. Any thoughts on how the share buybacks evolve beyond the third quarter given the current environment?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: No, I don't have any guidance to give on that, other than in the third quarter, we intend to purchase another $5 billion worth of shares.

DOUG LEGGATE: All right. Thanks, David.

OPERATOR: Paul Sankey, Deutsche Bank.

PAUL SANKEY, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Hi, David. I love results, David, you know I do. David, we have been obviously over a lot of this various stuff. But just on European gas volumes, can you clarify what looks like a 20% down move year over year in volumes? I think you were at 3.26 Bcf a day down to 2.69. I know there is probably ways of parsing what you have previously said into an answer on this, but what was the kind of dynamic behind that down move?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: If we look at the move down of notionally 600 a day -- you are talking about quarter on quarter second quarter.

PAUL SANKEY: Yes.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Actually, about a third of that was European demand, just lower demand quarter on quarter. And then the rest of it was just normal decline, and we also had some downtime -- additional downtime in the second quarter.

PAUL SANKEY: Okay, thank you. I assume -- and I can check the data, but you can probably just tell me that you are not bringing any LNG into the US market.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Yes, we are not bringing any LNG to speak of into the US market.

PAUL SANKEY: When we were together earlier this year, you did say that your views were changing on exports of LNG from the US. Can you update us on that, please?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Well, I remember discussing this. I don't think I said our views have changed. I said we, like everybody else, of course are always analyzing all the opportunities that might be out there. Some folks are already announcing and discussing plans that they have. And what I can clarify for you is that we don't currently have any plans to either re-export LNG or export LNG from the US market.

But again, we have got a lot of gas and we are continually evaluating all the opportunities to bring that gas to market.

PAUL SANKEY: I think I should clarify. I think what you were saying is that 2, 3 years ago, you would have thought exports were totally out of the question, whereas now it becomes a bet on whether or not these differentials, these regional price differentials will hold for (multiple speakers).

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Clearly, for those who are looking at this and when you are going to talk about building liquefaction capacity in the US, you are either making that 25 or 30 year bet on the continued spread between European spot prices and US spot prices as they exist today, or you're going to find a way to get that gas to the Far East.

So yes, three or four years ago, I don't think anybody was talking about it. As we have noted, across the industry, there are folks talking about it. But we will need to see how that progresses over time.

PAUL SANKEY: Sure. I think what you have also said more or less is that really you are going to continue pursuing the XTO business model, I guess with the merger of the best practices of both companies. But essentially, the business model of quite aggressive growth and acquisitions on an ongoing basis.

And it seems that you have kept up the pace of XTO acquisitions since the takeover. Is it fair to say that we should -- and I think Ed Westlake was referring to this -- consider that to be the business model going forward? And therefore, as we have seen in this quarter's results, add in an extra slug of acquisition capital on top of the guidance of, I think, $33 billion to $37 billion a year of CapEx that you gave us at the Analyst Meeting?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: You know, Paul, let me answer that kind of in two separate ways. Yes, the XTO model is continuing. We have been able to acquire both a lot of small acreage positions in terms of getting acreage that is surrounding acreage that we are ready have. And we don't talk about those, but those are all going.

And then we have, as I mentioned, between last year and this year, in just 12 months, made some really nice opportunistic acquisitions at very attractive prices to what we have.

So assuming that we can continue to find these things -- and we are looking at them -- I don't have a number for you or anything to put in the model, other than to say as these things come up and we find them and they have the same characteristics as what we have been looking at, yes, I would expect us to take advantage of those opportunities. Particularly, again, given the leverage we get from that XTO organization and where it is located and what they already have. And the ability to add these things without adding a lot of overhead and without having to change organizations and do that sort of thing, these things are very attractive. And we certainly hope we will continue to have these opportunities, but I just wouldn't have any guidance in terms of a number because it could be a fairly wide range.

PAUL SANKEY: Yes, I understand. On the pipelines, firstly, could you update us on the near Billings spill? Any news that you would want to share with us on that?

And secondly, are you intending to do anything to address the big spread that we have between these inland crudes, obviously manifested in the Brent and the WTI spreads? But what is your view on that and any potential investments you would make to address that spread? Thanks.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Let me hit the Silvertip Pipeline incident first. And I would like to say right up front that we deeply regret that incident and we are fully committed to completing the cleanup, learning about what happened there, how to prevent something like it from happening again, and really maintaining our focus on effective cleanup and remediation of the impacting area and taking care of the folks that were impacted by this incident.

Progress is going very well. We got about 800 people working out there on that, and the cleanup is progressing very well.

When we look at Billings, Billings is still running at reduced rates. We are working on the logistics to be able to supply feed to that refinery, other than what used to come through the pipeline. We have begun some preliminary work on replacing the pipeline, including discussions on permitting requirements and that sort of thing, lining up equipment and materials. I can't give you a time as when we might be fully restored there, but we are progressing that, at the same time, again, as we are progressing the cleanup and the impacts from the initial spill.

If we look more broadly at our supply organization and what is going on today in the MidCon in particular, and folks talking about as we all know the constraints there that are generating this widespread, we are, as we have talked about before, optimizing to the extent possible not only the advantage you can get in the MidCon with the Brent-WTI spread; but also, when you look at our refining circuit all the way from Canada, all the way down to the US Gulf Coast, we continue to optimize our own feed plates and really to process a number of advantaged crudes, including the Canadian heavy crudes, shale oil, other heavy crudes, shale oil that is coming out of the US. So a lot of those things are advantaged to a Brent or an LLS crude, for example. And to the extent we are able to get those and run them into our refining circuit, we are certainly doing so.

So it is not just the WTI-Brent effect in the MidCon, but also the ability to move these other crudes into your refineries, again, both in Canada and the Gulf Coast. And we are actively pursuing that and that is reflected in some of the volume mix impacts that you see.

PAUL SANKEY: (technical difficulty) there is probably one minute to go in this call, but are you using rail at all?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Are we using rail to move crudes?

PAUL SANKEY: Yes.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: I believe we are moving some of our Bakken crude out by rail.

PAUL SANKEY: Okay, David, thank you. I will leave it there. I know we are out of time. Thanks.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Thank you. I am more than happy to take a few more questions.

OPERATOR: John Herrlin, Societe Generale.

JOHN HERRLIN, ANALYST, SOCIETE GENERALE: Thanks, David. Your international exploration expense was about $0.5 billion higher than normal. Could you attribute it to projects or were you spending more on seismic? What was going on there internationally?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Yes, if you look internationally at the exploration expense, the driver there for the increase, we had some dry hole expense in the Philippines and also in Vietnam in the quarter.

JOHN HERRLIN: Okay. You gave the 1P for your unconventional reserve adds at -- or 3P at $0.28. What about 1P for the unconventional or proven?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: I don't have a number just for the proven. The way we look at this really is how much acreage are we getting and what are we paying for it. And then as we look at that total resource base that is out there, what are we getting and how much are we paying for that.

And then annually, as we always do -- and we will do that in February -- we will do a more robust reserves reporting of the proved as well as the unproved.

The real purpose of the chart today was just kind of to step back at the one-year postmerger mark and kind of give you folks an update on the progress we have made in just a short year in terms of leveraging what we got at the merger, and really showing the advantages that we are getting now in the resource base.

And also tell you from a transition standpoint, things continue to go very well. Attrition remains low. Management team is still in place, and the organization is working hard on the opportunities they had at the time of the merger, and then all the opportunities that we have added over the last 12 months.

So when you think strategically about the acquisition and the objectives we laid out at the time we talked about the merger, those objectives are being met and we are very pleased with the progress and very excited about the future.

JOHN HERRLIN: Okay. Two more. You mentioned the attrition rate. What is low -- percentagewise?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: We are not quoting a percentage. It is equivalent to what it has been prior to the merger, the same rates kind of that people have had before. It is fairly low. But again, I think the important thing for us is 13 months after the merger, it is remaining low and it just hasn't been an issue for us.

JOHN HERRLIN: Okay. With the Phillips acquisition, are you capitalizing most of that?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Yes. We will be capitalizing that acquisition.

JOHN HERRLIN: Okay. Last one for me. As you get more unconventional, as you start losing things like West African output, you know, I think a lot of people have been getting around the question of maybe you're losing higher-margin barrels and you're going to more cost-intensive type activities on a unit basis. Should we assume that your operating costs Upstream are going to start to increase a little bit?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: You know, when you look across our portfolio and the diversity, both from a resource standpoint as well as a geographic standpoint, at any given time, depending on how we are bringing those volumes onstream, you might see upturns and downturns in both profitability and unit cost.

You know, a lot of these things come on in big chunks. Obviously, bringing Qatar on over the last few years had an impact. We have talked about the impact Kearl will have and some of the other major projects.

So I wouldn't want to make an overall judgment as to what to expect going forward. And then quarter to quarter, of course, as we saw this quarter, you do see impacts of things like exploration expense, maintenance expense associated with activity. But going forward, you know, I really wouldn't have any guidance to give on direction one way or the other.

JOHN HERRLIN: Okay, thank you.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: I probably have time for one more question.

OPERATOR: Pavel Molchanov, Raymond James.

PAVEL MOLCHANOV, ANALYST, RAYMOND JAMES: Thanks for taking my question. I will squeeze this one in. Since the last call, we have seen yet another one of your peer companies split into upstream and downstream halves. And of course, we have seen others gradually divesting refineries. Exxon has kind of been absent from that process. Just wanted to get your thoughts on that industry dynamic.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: I really can't speak for some of our competitors and what they are doing with their business plans. Clearly, when we look at our Downstream business and the tremendous value we generate with integration with the Chemicals business and how that whole portfolio is generating the types of earnings and the types of returns that you have seen them generate over the last couple of years, every time we look at this, we conclude that our integrated model combined with our global functional organization just delivers what we have referred to in the past as a sum of the parts plus kind of valuation. And so for ExxonMobil, as long as we can continue to maintain that advantage, and in fact increase it through technology advances and some of the investments we are making, I think you will see over time that model will continue to work for us.

Now, if it is broken for others or others don't see the same kind of advantage that we do, it is not surprising that you might see some different approaches. But I wouldn't classify it as lagging some of the others. I'd really view it as just continuing to take advantage of the unique situation we have and the competitive advantages we get out of that and continue to exploit it.

PAVEL MOLCHANOV: Thanks for the color.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Okay. Thank you all very much.

OPERATOR: That does conclude today's conference. Again, thank you for your participation.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
exxn : Exxon Mobil Corporation
   IN
i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1300003 : Crude Petroleum Extraction | iextra : Natural Gas/Oil Extraction
   NS
c15 : Performance | c151 : Earnings | m143 : Energy Markets | ntra : Transcript | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | m14 : Commodity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | qatar : Qatar | cana : Canada | pol : Poland | asiaz : Asia | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | eecz : European Union Countries | eeurz : Central/Eastern Europe | eurz : Europe | gulfstz : Persian Gulf Regions | meastz : Middle East | namz : North America | wasiaz : Western Asia
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020110811e77s006y5
  


 HD
 Q1  2011  Exxon  Mobil Corp Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
9,506 words
   PD
28 April 2011
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©011 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day and welcome to this Exxon Mobil Corporation first-quarter 2011 earnings conference call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time, for opening remarks, I would like to turn the call over to the Vice President of Investor Relations and Secretary, Mr. David Rosenthal. Please go ahead, sir.

   TD
DAVID ROSENTHAL, VP OF IR AND SECRETARY, EXXON MOBIL CORPORATION: Good morning, and welcome to ExxonMobil's first-quarter earnings call and webcast. The focus of this call is ExxonMobil's financial and operating results for the first quarter of 2011. I will refer to the slides that are available through the Investors section of our website.

But before we go further, I would like to draw your attention to our customary caution statement shown on slide 2.

Moving to slide 3, we provide an overview of some of the external factors impacting our results. The global economic recovery remains uncertain as a result of continued sovereign debt concerns, inflationary pressures in major non-OECD countries, and the tragic events in Japan.

Energy markets are experiencing greater uncertainty, with political unrest in North Africa and the Middle East. These events, along with the effects of the weak US dollar, have resulted in significantly higher crude oil prices.

Natural gas prices outside the United States also increased relative to the first quarter of 2010. In addition, refining margins in the United States and the Asia-Pacific region improved relative to a weak first-quarter 2010 environment for the downstream. We also saw strong chemical margins, especially commodity margins in the United States and Europe.

Turning now to the first-quarter financial results, as shown on slide 4, ExxonMobil's first-quarter 2011 earnings excluding special items were $10.7 billion, an increase of $4.4 billion from the first quarter of 2010.

Our effective tax rate for the quarter was 47%. Earnings per share for the quarter excluding special items were $2.14, up $0.81 from a year ago.

The Corporation distributed more than $7 billion to shareholders in the first quarter through dividends and share purchases to reduce shares outstanding. Of that total, $5 billion was distributed to purchase shares. Share purchases to reduce shares outstanding are expected to be $5 billion in the second quarter of 2011.

CapEx in the first quarter was $7.8 billion, up over $900 million from the first quarter of 2010, reflecting the increase in our US unconventional activities.

Across our diverse portfolio, we continue to invest in robust projects through the business cycle to help meet global demand for crude oil, natural gas and finished products.

Our cash generation remains very strong, with $18.2 billion in cash flow from operations and asset sales. At the end of the first quarter of 2011, our cash balance was $13.2 billion, and debt was $15.9 billion.

The next slide provides additional detail on first-quarter sources and uses of cash. Over the quarter, our cash balance grew from $8.5 billion to $13.2 billion. The combined impact of strong earnings, depreciation expense, lower working capital and the benefit of our ongoing asset management program yielded $18.2 billion of cash flow from operations.

Uses of cash included additions to plant, property and equipment, or PP&E, of $7.1 billion, and shareholder distributions of $7.2 billion.

We will now provide a review of segmented results, starting on slide 6. ExxonMobil's first-quarter 2011 earnings of $10.7 billion increased $4.4 billion or 69% from the first quarter of 2010, with strong results across all business lines. Upstream earnings increased $2.9 billion, while downstream earnings improved by $1.1 billion, and chemical earnings grew about $270 million.

Corporate and financing expenses of $640 million during the quarter were down $160 million versus the first quarter of 2010, due mainly to the absence of the tax charge related to the US healthcare legislation, and remained within our continued guidance of $500 million to $700 million per quarter.

As shown on slide 7, ExxonMobil's first-quarter 2011 earnings of $10.7 billion increased $1.4 billion from the fourth quarter of 2010, mainly due to higher earnings in the upstream and chemical businesses.

Moving next to the upstream results and beginning on slide 8, ExxonMobil, along with our coventurers, reached a major production milestone in the redevelopment of the West Qurna I oilfield in southern Iraq. We achieved the improved production target under the contract by increasing production 10% above the initial field production rate of 244,000 barrels per day gross. The current field production is now about 320,000 barrels per day gross.

Day-to-day operations have been transferred to the West Qurna I field operating division, which is staffed by personnel from the South Oil Company and ExxonMobil. Operations include drilling new wells, working over existing wells, and debottlenecking and optimizing facilities. We currently have three drilling rigs operating in the field and expect to add additional rigs during the year.

Turning now to our exploration and development activities on slide 9, beginning with our deepwater activity in the US Gulf of Mexico, where ExxonMobil holds 2.1 million net acres, we are currently drilling the Hadrian-5 exploration well, which spud in March, within several days of receiving permit approval from the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management. Hadrian-5 is a further evaluation of the Hadrian North oil complex. The Hadrian South gas discovery is fully appraised.

As you know, we and other members of the Marine Well Containment Company recently announced the readiness of an initial well-containment response system. Work is continuing on additional enhancements to expand the system, which will be deployed next year. The Marine Well Containment Company membership continues to grow and now consists of 10 member companies.

Finally, building on our strong position in Norway, ExxonMobil was awarded three new production licenses as part of the Norwegian Continental Shelf 21st licensing round. These include one operated production license and two nonoperated licenses.

Moving now to slide 10, in Indonesia, ExxonMobil made another discovery on the Cepu block in East Java Province. A Kedung Keris well was drilled to a total depth of 7032 feet and encountered an oil column of 561 feet in the target carbonate zone. The Kedung Keris discovery is located approximately 9 miles from the Banyu Urip oil discovery, which was made in 2001. The Banyu Urip early production system continues to perform well, and activities are progressing on the future 450 million barrel oilfield development.

We are also evaluating our coalbed methane acreage in the onshore Barito Basin, which covers approximately 290,000 net acres. Exploration drilling commenced with the first coalbed methane well in early April, and drilling operations are ongoing.

Turning now to the upstream financial and operating results and starting on slide 11, upstream earnings in the first quarter were $8.7 billion, up $2.9 billion from the first quarter of 2010. Stronger crude oil and natural gas realizations increased earnings by $2.6 billion as crude oil realizations increased over $25 per barrel and gas realizations increased $0.72 per kcf.

Production mix and volume effects decreased earnings by $160 million, due mainly to the impact of high prices on entitlement volumes, higher downtime, and decline, partly offset by the ramp-up of Qatar project and the addition of XTO.

Other items, primarily a gain on the sale of Western Canada assets and the absence of prior-year dry holes, increased earnings by $470 million. Upstream after-tax earnings per barrel were $20.

Moving to slide 12, oil equivalent volumes increased 10.5% from the first quarter of last year, mainly due to growth in our US unconventional resource business and the impact of Qatar project ramp-up. Volumes were, however, negatively impacted by higher prices on entitlement volumes, higher downtime, decline and divestments.

Turning now to the sequential comparison and starting on slide 13, versus the fourth quarter of 2010, upstream earnings increased by $1.2 billion, with stronger realizations resulting in an additional $1.3 billion in earnings as crude oil realizations increased over $16 per barrel and global gas realizations increased $0.79 per kcf.

Production mix and volume effects decreased earnings by $520 million, due mainly to the impact of higher prices on entitlement volumes, higher downtime and divestments. Other items, primarily asset management activity and lower operating expenses, increased earnings by $410 million.

Moving to slide 14, oil equivalent volumes decreased 3% from the fourth quarter of 2010, due mainly to the impact of higher prices on entitlement volumes, downtime and divestments. For further data on regional volumes, please refer to the press release and the IR supplement.

Moving now to the downstream and starting on slide 15, during the quarter ExxonMobil Lubricants & Specialties renewed the long-standing technology partnership with the Vodafone McLaren Mercedes Formula One team. The new multiyear agreement maintains the longest continuous oil company sponsorship of a Grand Prix race team. As part of the agreement, we will continue providing Vodafone McLaren Mercedes with Mobil 1 lubricant technology, expertise and support to develop next-generation lubricants for the racecar engine and gearbox.

ExxonMobil will continue to leverage learnings from the extreme conditions of Formula One racing to further enhance Mobil 1 synthetic oil formulations. With this agreement, ExxonMobil will also supply a range of specialized lubricant products for use at the McLaren Technology Center. These products will include high-performance cutting fluids used in the manufacturing of racecar components; Mobil SHC synthetic grease for the wind tunnel; and Mobil Delvac 1 synthetic diesel engine oil to help reduce fuel consumption and improve emissions of the Vodafone McLaren Mercedes truck fleet.

Turning now to the downstream financial and operating results starting on slide 16, downstream earnings in the first quarter were $1.1 billion, up $1.1 billion from the first quarter of 2010. The improved industry margins increased earnings by $470 million, driven by higher refining margins, partly offset by lower marketing margins.

Continued benefits from our refining optimization activities contributed $350 million in volume and mix effects, while other factors improved earnings by $240 million, primarily due to favorable foreign exchange effects.

Moving to slide 17, sequentially, first-quarter downstream earnings were essentially flat. Higher industry margins -- higher industry refining margins, partly offset by lower marketing margins, increased earnings by $160 million. Volume and mix effects were a negative $270 million, primarily due to higher turnaround and maintenance activities. Other factors contributed $60 million.

Turning now to our chemical business, starting on slide 18, ExxonMobil Chemical recently announced the grand opening of our world-class Shanghai Technology Center in China. Our investment in this new facility demonstrates the strategic importance of technology and its critical role in supporting the long-term value of our chemical business.

The 220,000-square-foot facility is equipped with more than 200 state-of-the-art processing machines and analytical instruments. The Center also has 22 development-scale and 16 commercial-scale product processing machines, allowing us to perform full-scale testing to serve our chemical customer needs in the fast-growing China and broader Asia markets.

The Shanghai Technology Center is supported by more than 300 employees from our technology, sales/marketing, and supply chain groups. Today, the Chinese petrochemical market is the largest in the world. And through 2020, China will represent over one-third of global petrochemical demand growth. Shanghai Technology Center is well positioned to support this growth by providing our customers with product and processing solutions that add value to their businesses.

Turning now to slide 19, during the quarter, Saudi Basic Industries Corporation, or SABIC, announced that work on our proposed joint-venture elastomers project has moved into the front-end engineering and design phase. As previously announced, plans are to establish a domestic supply of more than 400,000 tons per year of synthetic rubber, thermoplastic specialty polymers, and carbon black to serve emerging local and international markets in Asia and the Middle East.

ExxonMobil and SABIC are targeting development of a globally competitive project with best-in-class industry costs and have selected Jubail Industrial City as the site for the new manufacturing unit in order to expand integration opportunities within the existing KEMYA petrochemical joint venture.

The Saudi elastomers project continues a long history of investment in Saudi Arabia and builds on the strong relationship with SABIC to meet the growing customer need for our products.

Turning now to the chemical financial and operating results and starting on slide 20, first-quarter chemical earnings were a record $1.5 billion, up $267 million from the first quarter of 2010, again demonstrating the value of a balanced portfolio of commodity and specialty businesses, world-scale facilities with strong operational performance and technology application to deliver superior feedstock advantage.

Higher margins contributed $470 million in earnings, primarily driven by stronger commodity chemicals margins and our feedstock advantage. Other effects decreased earnings by $200 million due to higher planned maintenance costs, unfavorable foreign exchange effects and the absence of asset management gains.

Moving to slide 21, sequentially, first-quarter chemical earnings increased about $450 million. Margin effects increase earnings by $340 million, primarily due to stronger global commodity chemicals margins. Other effects increase earnings by $100 million, due mainly to lower turnaround and maintenance costs this quarter.

Moving to slide 22, while we manage our downstream and chemical businesses separately, we continue to capture benefits from the unique integration and optimization of these businesses. Looking at our combined downstream and chemical results, first-quarter earnings were $2.6 billion, up $1.3 billion from the first quarter of 2010.

Moving to slide 23, ExxonMobil's first-quarter financial and operating performance was strong and reflects the ability of our business model and competitive advantages to deliver superior results. We maintain a continuous focus on operational excellence and improving upon our industry-leading safety performance, while continuing with the disciplined execution of our long-term investment plan.

As we continue to deploy high-impact technologies and leverage our unparalleled global integration, ExxonMobil remains well positioned to maximize long-term shareholder value.

That concludes my prepared remarks, and I would now be happy to take your questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Mark Gilman, The Benchmark Company.

MARK GILMAN, ANALYST, THE BENCHMARK COMPANY: Wonder if you could comment on what you did in the quarter with respect to the tax rate increase in the UK. Did you accrue at the higher rate? And address that in the context of the overall increase in the effective tax rate, which one might have suspected from a higher price, but E&P earnings were actually a lower percentage than they were in the fourth quarter. I also had a follow-up.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Sure, Mark. That's a good question, given some of the other results that are out there. We did not accrue any impact associated with the increase in taxes in the UK that were recently announced. As you probably know, for US GAAP purposes, effective changes in tax laws are reflected only on the enactment date, as opposed to IFRS, where the effect of these changes are reflected for laws enacted or laws that are substantially enacted or anticipated to have that kind of an effect.

So we will reflect the impact of that in our earnings at the time that it is fully enacted.

MARK GILMAN: Okay. And in terms of the tax rate itself going up to 47% in the quarter, despite the fact that the E&P percentage of income was lower in this quarter than in the fourth quarter?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Yes, if you're looking sequentially, I guess, if you're looking at the increase, then, from the fourth quarter to the first quarter, where we went from 43% to 47%, the biggest factor in the increase there was some absence of some favorable tax items that we had in the fourth quarter, as well as we did see a little change in the mix that added about 1% or so.

So we are down quarter on quarter, and up sequentially.

MARK GILMAN: Okay. My follow-up relates to Iraq, David, and whether or not you included any production in the quarter from Iraq, and if you could indicate what kind of impact that will have in terms of the way you are reporting your financials.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Sure. If we look at volumes in the first quarter, they were de minimis, given the timing that we reached the production target that we were looking for. So we will see increased volumes as we head into the second quarter.

OPERATOR: Paul Sankey, Deutsche Bank.

PAUL SANKEY, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: A quick opener -- forgive me if you gave this number, but do you have a net debt number for the end of the quarter?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Sure. Net debt at the end of the quarter was right at about $15.9 billion.

PAUL SANKEY: And how much of that is cash?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: No, I'm sorry, that's the actual debt.

PAUL SANKEY: Oh, right.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Yes, I'm sorry. The cash balance was $13.2 billion. So the difference in those, then, is about $2.6 billion, $2.7 billion.

PAUL SANKEY: Great, thanks. If I could not count that as a question and ask you two from here, firstly, on CapEx, in the US, clearly you've had a big jump in US CapEx year over year. You're at just over $2 billion of spending. I was wondering, could you just talk a little bit more about that number going forward? And I'm thinking, given your comments on the Gulf of Mexico, about where that $2 billion breaks down to, and where you expect it to go from here. Thanks.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Sure. If we look at the CapEx increase quarter on quarter in the US, that's really all the ambition of XTO and the fact that we didn't report CapEx in the first quarter of last year for them, and we've added it this year. And that's the bulk of the US increase that you see in the first quarter.

PAUL SANKEY: But I would imagine that you had a lower level of activity in the Gulf of Mexico, right? And you would expect that to ramp back up going forward?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Yes, I don't have an exact number, but I would assume the activity in the Gulf was a little bit less. Certainly we will see that increasing in this quarter as we're drilling the Hadrian well, and that will -- as I mentioned, has spudded and is going down. And so, yes, we will see that. So we will see a little pickup there in the second quarter.

PAUL SANKEY: And what about for the XTO stuff? I mean, I know you've reached the level of rigs that you've kind of held flat. Is that the expectation let's say for the remainder of 2011?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Yes, that's pretty much. I think you'll see us probably be somewhere in that 65- to 70-rig quarter -- quarter rate, which is about flat where we've been. Obviously, as we look at that portfolio, we are optimizing the use of those rigs and making sure that we are obviously hitting the liquids-rich areas to the extent possible, and as well as prioritizing our gas rigs and utilization, and of course, utilization of fracking crews and other support services and equipment to make sure that we are maximizing the value of that program. But we are very pleased with how things are going in the first quarter and looking forward to a good year.

PAUL SANKEY: And then, if we just roll that through the combination of the two things, you've got the rigs at around the same level. Would you expect the CapEx for those rigs to remain at around the same level, or are you seeing cost increases?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: No, I think that's a reasonable expectation as we are looking across the year. That's consistent with the guidance that we had in the March analyst meeting. But as we look across the year, we would expect costs to be generally flat. That's kind of what we are seeing now here in the first quarter.

PAUL SANKEY: Great. And then just -- I hope it's not too long a question, but when I look at your financial and operating information, your refining capacity for 2010 is given at 6.25 million barrels a day. And if I look at your utilization rate in Q1, assuming that's the right number for Q1, 5.18 million of throughput. That's about an 82% utilization rate. If I remember rightly, 2010 was a -- well, I can see from the history was a low year for utilization at 84% with quite a lot of turnarounds.

My question is, how come utilization is so low? Is it a Japan effect? Is there some other issue there? And would we expect that to bounce higher for the rest of the year? And I will leave it there. Thanks.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Sure, Paul, that's a good question. We've got a couple of factors going on. We did see in the first quarter, particularly relative to the first quarter of last year, some higher turnaround activity in Europe and across Asia. And of course, we did see some impact in Japan related to the tragic events there.

I can tell you that all of our facilities in Japan are up and running full-bore. We obviously brought those up as quickly as possible in order to help relieve the product supply disruption effects in Japan, and we are very pleased with how that effort is going.

Utilization in the US is doing well. So, again, other than the planned maintenance and turnaround activities outside of the US, we're doing pretty well.

OPERATOR: Doug Leggate, Bank of America-Merrill Lynch.

DOUG LEGGATE, ANALYST, BOFA-MERRILL LYNCH: So, David, a couple of questions. I'm trying to understand the production movements in the quarter. Obviously, there's a lot of moving parts here, so maybe we'll just highlight some of the ones that jumped out to us.

Asia-Pacific gas seems to be down a fair bit, and I'm guessing production sharing contracts impacted African oil. But if you could confirm those two things, maybe talk a little bit about them, but if you could also explain what's going on with liquids in Europe. And then I have a follow-up, please.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: If you look broadly across our volumes, we did see some impacts, as I mentioned in my prepared remarks, from downtime. And we did see that in the Asia-Pacific gas business. We did have some downtime in Qatar, and that affected our gas business there.

Liquids, of course, you are seeing a big decline relative to the impact of the high prices on entitlements. And as we mentioned in the chart there, you are seeing some impact of divestments, the two divestments that we announced, Gulf of Mexico and Canada, on both liquids and gas.

But across the board, large impacts, of course, some PSC entitlement effects, and then the downtime that we had in a number of places.

I will also mention, while we are talking about overall volumes, we did have some downtime across West Africa that lowered our volumes there. And as you know, there was downtime up on the North Slope that affected the Prudhoe Bay volume.

So, while we did see that downtime effect in the first quarter -- and that's both relative to last year and the fourth quarter this year in particular -- all of that production is back online. So we would expect to get those impacts back, as well as the earnings in the second quarter.

DOUG LEGGATE: Broadly, David, can you quantify the absolute impact of what has come back on stream? Or do you want me to take that offline?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: I don't have that number on the top of my head, so yes, we will take that offline.

DOUG LEGGATE: Okay. My follow-up is fairly quick, I think. The exploration charges were quite light to the peers relative to the run rate from last year. Is that basically a reflection of the success levels you've had? Is spending down? Is it seasonal, or can you give us some idea of what the trend is there, please? And I'll leave it there. Thanks.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Sure. That one is pretty straightforward. It is just the absence of the dry hole costs that we had last year, in particular Libya and some of the other places that you are aware of. And then the rest is just timing. You know, we have a very large exploration program getting underway this year. We've got the Hadrian well going down now. Turkey will be spudding in the second quarter. So, some timing, of course, across the quarters, but the main quarter-on-quarter impact that you see on exploration expense is the absence of the dry hole costs that we booked last year.

OPERATOR: Doug Terreson, ISI.

DOUG TERRESON, ANALYST, ISI: So, in chemicals, you guys have historically invested when competitive advantages were present rather than when you had really high cyclical returns. And it has obviously served you well over time. But at the same time, the returns in the US chemicals business are about the highest in the global portfolio, which suggests that opportunities for value-added investment might be present.

And so, while I don't think that the guys said too much on US chemicals at the analyst meeting, I wanted to see if you could comment on the level of interest and investment in this business -- that is, if there is any -- and if so, in what product areas, given kind of the surprising strength in this area.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Doug, as you point out, we do have a long history of investing through the price cycle in the chemicals business. And that has served us well and is, of course, serving us well now. And we would expect it to do the same in the future as we bring the Singapore plant up.

When we look in the US, we are currently enjoying a terrific feedstock advantage. Basically, as you know, everybody is running ethane to the extent that they can into their crackers, and we are taking advantage of that.

As we look longer term in the US chemical business, the first place you've got to start is demand, and demand growth for the product. And we don't see the demand in the US being near as strong as opportunities that we have elsewhere, particularly in the Asia-Pacific region, and in particular serving the markets there, and of course in the Middle East.

So I think the growth prospects for demand pull is definitely outside of the US. And then if we look at where we are today, we are happy with our portfolio and the integration that we have with our other refineries and that that we've talked about in the past.

So while times are real good now and we are taking advantage of them, we are really focusing the bulk of our investment plan and our growth prospects outside of the US.

DOUG TERRESON: Okay, simple enough. And also, given the geographical scope of your operations, your information on oil demand trends are usually as good or better than anybody's. And on this point, while most of the rise in oil prices unfolded in the latter part of the first quarter and there are lag effects in many countries, meaning it may be too early to know, I wanted to see if you would comment on trend in OECD and non-OECD demand, that is if you have updated information from these regions.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: I don't have any really updated demand relative to the broad things that we talked about in our energy outlook. I think things are pretty consistent with that.

As I mentioned, of course, we are seeing some inflationary pressures in the developing countries, and the impact that that might have near term on demand relative to economic growth remains to be seen. But as we look out long term, we expect to see growth consistent with our energy outlook, but no real change.

OPERATOR: Edward Westlake, Credit Suisse.

EDWARD WESTLAKE, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Thanks for the cash flow statement in the presentation -- very, very helpful.

Just a quick question on chemicals in the international markets. And obviously there are meant to be some startups coming on this year, and obviously oil prices have pushed up, and that may impact demand.

What are happening to the -- because that was a lot of the surprise -- the chemical margins as you start into this quarter or your outlook for the rest of the year?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Yes, as we are looking -- let's start with what we saw in the first quarter, which was very strong margins kind of across the board, in particular in commodities in the US and Europe. And of course, those were levered up by our feedstock flexibility and the advantages we have there, so we had a real strong quarter. Specialties as well, given the increase in economic activity and industrial demand. So kind of hitting on all cylinders there in the first quarter.

You know, as we look into the future, it would be very difficult for me to predict or speculate on margins going forward. A lot of that is driven by economic activity and what's going on.

Margins are firm as we look around what's going on today. But again, given the impact that the economy and changes can have on growth, and fairly quickly, on prices, I wouldn't want to speculate. But I would say that one of the important things about taking advantage of what you get is to have your operations that are up and running. And we are focusing on that. We have very good, high utilizations. And so if margins remain strong, we will certainly take advantage of it and maximize feed flexibility. But overall prices and demands, that would be tough for me to look out the window and speculate on that.

EDWARD WESTLAKE: And then my follow-up is on this sort of volume/mix shift as we go quarter to quarter. And obviously, in Q4, you had $870 million gain versus Q3, and then this quarter you lost $520 million. And you mentioned PSCs and downtime.

Is it right for us to assume that most of that is downtime in terms of that vol/mix kind of impact?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Yes, if you are looking quarter on quarter, you know, one of the biggest impacts there is entitlements had a big impact. And again, as I mentioned, downtime was the other. And that really hit our liquids. So what you see quarter on quarter sequentially is liquids volumes went down because of those effects, and gas volumes went up. And we don't, we're not -- at current prices, we're not making the same money on the US gas business as we are on our liquids.

So as I mentioned earlier, all of the downtime is back up and running, and we are pleased to have those volumes back. Crude oil prices remain strong. So to the extent that that continues to have impacts on entitlements, we will see those going forward. But I think when you look at what we control, it's good to have the downside behind us and the volumes back online.

EDWARD WESTLAKE: And a follow-on from Mark's question. Do you have a number for the UK tax charge at this point in terms of the charge you might take in Q3?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: You know, I don't have that number yet. We will have that -- obviously, if that goes through, we will have that in the second quarter.

OPERATOR: Faisel Khan, Citi.

FAISEL KHAN, ANALYT, CITIGROUP: I'm wondering if you could elaborate a little bit more on the -- you talked about the asset management effects of I think about $410 million or so in the upstream business sequentially. What exactly is -- when you talk about asset management, what does that exactly mean?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Sure. We've got -- and asset management is only one factor in that $410 million, and you are basically seeing in there the impact of the Western Canada sale that we had in the first quarter of this year. But that was mostly offset by the gain on the sale of the Eastern Gulf of Mexico last quarter.

So if we look at that $410 million quarter to quarter sequentially, the biggest impact in there is on lower operating expenses. So you have a combination of lower field expense, and then as the question was mentioned earlier, lower exploration expense quarter on quarter because of the effects I mentioned.

So the big impact in that $410 million sequentially is really lower operating expense.

FAISEL KHAN: Okay, got you. And one last question. On the chemical business, if I'm looking at US chemical product sales, as I go back and look at those volumes kind of over the last few quarters, it looks like you peaked out at about 2.6 million tons in the third quarter of last year. But you're still kind of operating around this 2.2 million ton range. Is there something going on with some of the assets, that you are selling less product than you did in the third quarter of last year?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: No, there's really nothing going on from an asset perspective. We had a little higher turnaround activity in the fourth quarter.

One of the effects that you see, for example, when you compare our first-quarter volumes in '11 compared to the first-quarter volume of last year, we did have an opportunity -- you might recall, this time last year I mentioned that a number of our competitors' units were down for various reasons. And we had an opportunity to really pick up some spots sales, particularly in the US, in the commodity business and took advantage of that. And so that was being pretty opportunistic.

As we look across the quarters, kind of balancing things out and taking into account maintenance timing and that sort of thing, no real change. In fact, I will tell you, from a utilization standpoint, we are running our facilities at a rate that's above the industry averages that have been announced. Uptime has been great. And I think I said a minute ago, that business is kind of hitting on all cylinders right now, and we are very pleased with the financial results.

FAISEL KHAN: Okay, great. Thanks for the time.

OPERATOR: Blake Fernandez, Howard Weil.

BLAKE FERNANDEZ, ANALYST, HOWARD WEIL: A question for you. I know you addressed the asset sales in Western Canada and the Gulf of Mexico, but when you look just in general, the asset divestitures have kind of ticked higher here the last couple of quarters compared to where we were trending previously. And I'm just curious, is that a sign of increased divestiture activity to come?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: No, I wouldn't read anything into that particularly. As you know, we have a long-standing practice and a long-standing program. I think we mentioned at the March analyst meeting, if you go back to the merger, we divested about $40 billion worth of assets. That's a pretty big program.

It's opportunistic; it's ongoing. Obviously, you'll have the timing of certain things, but nothing major, nothing out of the ordinary. Always evaluating opportunities, always talking to folks that are interested in our assets. And as we've said before, someone comes along and places a higher value, for whatever reason, on an asset than we do, we are certainly going to talk to them about that opportunity.

But I wouldn't look at the recent trend as any sign or indicator of increased or lower activity levels to come.

BLAKE FERNANDEZ: Okay, thanks. And then one follow-up, if I could, just on the share repurchases -- may not get very far on this, but I will give it a stab anyway. I guess I was thinking maybe there was a chance that repurchase program would have bumped up a bit heading into 2Q, just given the elevated commodity environment and the fact that the cash balance is back up to $13 billion. Would you say there is maybe an upward bias should commodity prices stay where they are here?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: I wouldn't necessarily say there is any bias with respect to the share purchases. You know, we did have very strong cash flows in the first quarter, for the reasons I mentioned. That did enable us to really follow the cash strategy that we've talked about many times. We have a very large investment program this year.

I hope everybody noticed the announcement yesterday of our fairly sizable dividend increase. So we were pleased to be able to fund that and then have the ability to fund another $5 billion of share repurchases, while at the same time maintaining our strong balance sheet, and most importantly, maintaining financial flexibility.

And of course, as we talk about a lot, maintaining discipline in investments and uses of cash throughout the cycle is one of our key objectives, and we continue to manage the business along those lines.

OPERATOR: Iain Reid, Jefferies.

IAIN REID, ANALYST, JEFFERIES & COMPANY: Yes, I'd like to echo the thanks for the cash flow statements. I'm looking forward to the balance sheet next quarter. (laughter)

DAVID ROSENTHAL: It will be out shortly.

IAIN REID: Yes, yes, I know. Just a couple of questions. Going back to Iraq, you know, the industry gossip is that things are tougher than people expected in Iraq in terms of production buildup. There's a fair amount of infrastructure to be installed. I think you're responsible for the water injection system.

Can you talk about what you think these volumes might rise to over the balance of this year and going into the next couple of years, and also, how we should think about how your booked production is going to look like out of that?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Sure. Let me kind of hit the second question first and then move back to the first one.

If we look at our production and the increases that we've got and are achieving, they are right on schedule. They are right on plan. We are not seeing any real constraints moving up to 320,000 barrels a day. And so from that standpoint, we are pleased and look forward to continuing our progress.

As I mentioned from a production booking standpoint, very low in the first quarter because of the timing of hitting that target. And you'll see that ramp up here a bit over the second quarter. We've got three rigs running now, we've got more rigs coming, workovers, facilities optimization. So all of that stuff is up and running.

Now, as we go down the road, not only ourselves but the rest of the industry, there are infrastructure needs to be addressed, one of which you know on the water injection site, ExxonMobil is leading that study, and that progresses. There are also needs for additional export capacity and facilities to move the oil out of the country. And those are being addressed as well.

But both of those are large-scale efforts that need to be undertaken. But it's too early for me to predict either the timing or the ultimate potential, because it will be -- there will be a number of factors that affect that. But I think your observation is spot-on. Things are going very well right now, and we've got some infrastructure issues to address in the coming months and years.

BLAKE FERNANDEZ: Okay. And can I ask, last quarter you gave us a number for XTO's earnings per barrel as distinct from the rest of the portfolio. Can you update us on that for this quarter?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: I wasn't planning on giving any XTO-specific earnings numbers. We've kind of got that all wrapped up in our US results that you've seen reported and would continue to do that.

I would offer, though, as we look at that unconventional business now through the end of the first quarter, we are very pleased with the progress we're making on the integration. We are especially pleased with the synergistic results that we are starting to see, the fruition coming to bear of our efforts, both on the addition of XTO Resources to our global unconventional program. We've got folks working on planning of our efforts there. We have drilled some wells. We've got others planned. And we are certainly benefiting from the expertise that they bring to the table.

Likewise, here in the US, we are really starting to see the benefit of combining some of heritage ExxonMobil's technology capabilities and research capabilities, and some of the technologies that we developed in the tight gas realm, being applied to the XTO business. And I don't have any numbers to quote today, but I can tell you directionally if you look at the objectives we have of improving capital efficiency, improving productivity and lowering operating costs, we are making good progress and are very pleased with how that's going.

So the story there remains very positive, and we look forward to the upcoming quarters and years to, again, really get out of that resource what we had planned.

OPERATOR: Paul Cheng, Barclays Capital.

PAUL CHENG, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Dave, when I'm looking at your European gas output in the first quarter, it's 4.8 Bcf versus the first quarter 2010 is 5.1 Bcf. I guess I'm a little bit surprised that you dropped that much, given the first-quarter 2011 weather was pretty cold and the pricing was strong. So we would expect that you probably have maxed out your gas output because the demand is there.

So if that means that year over year we are dropping by, say, around 8% on the -- upper 7% on the underlying decline curve on your European gas capacity, or that the first-quarter 2010 is just maybe some one-off timing issue that the number is high?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Paul, that is an excellent question. And interestingly enough, even though European demand was high in the first quarter '11, it was actually less than the first quarter of '10 and really accounted for at least half, if not a little more, of the decrease you saw quarter on quarter, with the balance basically being a decline. But yes, we did see an overall demand drop relative to the first quarter of last year in Europe.

PAUL CHENG: Interesting. I would've thought that the demand -- so the underlying decline is more like in the 3% to 4%; it's not the 7%?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Yes, I didn't do that calculation, but yes, if you are looking overall at the decline, figure about half of that is demand and the other half is decline.

PAUL CHENG: Okay. Then you were talking about Iraq earlier. Can you tell us how the accounting works in terms of reporting the production and earning, now that you're above 10%? So if -- does that mean if production in excess of the baseline, then you just report your 65% share, or how exactly is the accounting in terms of reporting the production and the earnings is going to be?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Sure. Paul, as you know, those contracts in Iraq are unique. They do exhibit some elements that look like a PSC in terms of cost recovery. You do have, of course, then, the remuneration, the fee that you get above the 10%. And then, of course, the actual volumes that you book are impacted by prices as well.

So as we move forward, we will be booking production just as the way we said those contracts work. We will get the volumes for cost recovery. And then we will get the volumes associated with the remuneration fee. And then we will book the reserves accordingly as well.

PAUL CHENG: So you basically will book similar like what you did in the PSC you have in your -- let's say you spend $100 million in the costs, and then your fee, let's say for argument's sake is going to be $10 million. So you would book -- your production will be equal to whatever -- let's say if it is $100 oil, then you book 11 million barrels in the production -- 1.1 million barrels in production. Is that the way that you're going to do?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: You know, directionally, Paul, I think the math flows the way you are suggesting. I'm sure there's a few nuances. But directionally speaking, that's how that's going to work.

PAUL CHENG: Okay. If I could sneak in just a quick one, you're not going to talk about the XTO contribution; can you tell us what is the XTO oil and gas production for the quarter?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: No, we really, again, heading into this year, now that we've fully integrated that business into the rest of the US results, we weren't planning to break out either the earnings or absolute production level. But of course, if you look at the net growth year over year that we show in the volumes chart, the bulk of that is XTO.

So, again, I will give you an indicator. We drilled, I think, 900-some wells in XTO last year, and we've already drilled 200 in the first quarter of this year. So, again, the business is doing well, but it's now going to be reported and fully integrated in with the rest of our US results.

OPERATOR: Katherine Minyard, JPMorgan.

KATHERINE MINYARD, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Just a couple of quick questions on the entitlement sensitivity, both quarter over quarter and year over year. In your slide where you compare year over year, you've got about a 65,000 barrel a day change, and I've got about a $28 change in the Brent oil price, so that's about 2300 barrels a day per $1 change in oil.

Then if I look at the quarter over quarter, it looks to be about a 5000 barrel a day change per dollar per barrel oil price change. So I was curious as to what the ratable sensitivity is on a go-forward basis, and whether there was any one-off impact in the most recent quarter or over the course of the last year that would be skewing that.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Sure, Katherine. That's an excellent question. And the biggest factor we have in the sequential quarter, more so than in the quarter on quarter, is really in the price and spend effect. And the thing you have to keep in mind is both price and spend impact that.

And so what we saw was, we had higher prices quarter to quarter from the fourth quarter to the first quarter, and much lower spending. But you've kind of got a double whammy there of lower spending and higher prices significantly lowering the volumes that you get. We didn't see that impact (multiple speakers) quarter.

KATHERINE MINYARD: Okay, and is there a rate we should be thinking about on a go-forward basis?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: On a go-forward basis, I really couldn't give you a number because, again, I don't know what crude oil prices are going to do. Directionally, our spend levels tend to increase across the year, particularly relative fourth quarter to first quarter. You tend to see higher spending in the fourth quarter and lower spending in the first quarter, and we've seen that effect. So I really wouldn't have a number going forward other than to say the biggest impact on us is going to be the level of spending, and then of course what crude oil prices do.

OPERATOR: Allen Good, Morningstar.

ALLEN GOOD, ANALYST, MORNINGSTAR: Just a quick question -- can you give an update on Golden Pass and what kind of activity you are seeing down there?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Sure, I would be happy to give you an overall update on that project. Things are going quite well. As you know, we are commissioning that in two phases. We've got the first phase done. That commissioning cargo actually arrived, the first one in the fourth quarter last year. We brought in five additional cargoes, got that thing up and running, actually exported some gas into the pipeline, and all the facilities are working.

As we sit here today, Phase 2 is complete and in the commissioning stage. And we brought in a cargo for that. So we continue on the full commissioning and startup of that terminal. And as you know, that's part of a broader strategy out of Qatar to have a footprint in all the -- a regas footprint in all the major markets, and have left about a third of our volumes out of Qatar to be available to the spot market.

And as the strategy was unfolded, the ability to divert those cargoes to get the highest netback is exactly what we are seeing today. And so we are taking all available cargoes into Europe, where we enjoy a nice spread there, as well as demand in the Asia-Pac market for spot cargoes in addition to our term contracts is also strong.

So we are very pleased with how all these facilities are coming along and especially pleased with the performance of our balance and mix of commercial arrangements.

ALLEN GOOD: Thanks for those comments on the LNG market. Just one more follow-up. On the downstream earnings for international, there was a drop-off there from Q4 to this first quarter. Just want to confirm that that was due to the turnarounds that you mentioned earlier throughout Europe and Asia, and wanted to confirm that most of those facilities are back online and producing at full capacity.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Yes, you're right. The primary impact was the turnaround and maintenance-related activities. And as we're looking today -- and that was across Europe and Asia-Pacific. And where we are sitting here today, those facilities are back up and running and came out of a very successful maintenance period.

ALLEN GOOD: Okay. And any more anticipated turnarounds, either in Europe or throughout the US, through the remainder of the year?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: You know, I don't have a turnaround schedule, but I think you will see normal turnaround maintenance activities in the US here in the second quarter, kind of consistent with what we normally do and what industry normally does.

OPERATOR: Pavel Molchanov, Raymond James.

PAVEL MOLCHANOV, ANALYST, RAYMOND JAMES: Thanks for taking my question. Kind of a broad question, if I may -- it's been almost a year, of course, since XTO closed. And I'm curious, how has the Company's unconventional gas plans evolved for your overseas acreage, and in particular if any of the drilling timetables have changed?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: I wouldn't say any of the drilling timetables have changed. Nonetheless, we do have a very active program underway, both coming out of 2010 as well as into 2011.

For example, if you look at the Poland resources, we've been actively acquiring 3D seismic. We did get a well down in one of our licenses in the first quarter, and it finished up in February. We've got a second well that spud in February. So we're starting to do our evaluation program, our drilling program, and would expect to continue to do that as the year goes on.

If you look at Germany, there again, we have continued our evaluation efforts there and are drilling some additional wells. We expect that program to continue on. But again, things are going about as we had planned, both in the shale gas in Germany, as well in coalbed methane. We are getting wells down and are evaluating those results, and that will determine the pace and extent of our program going forward. But we continue to view those opportunities very highly.

I will tell you another area for us outside of the country is Argentina, where we have also acquired a fairly large acreage position there. And we are doing evaluation and preparations to commence drilling there later on.

So if I kind of step back and look at our total global unconventional portfolio, we continue to add to our acreage positions. We are continuing to pursue additional acreage positions, and again, as I mentioned a little earlier, really leveraging the capabilities of ExxonMobil and XTO to both evaluate those prospects and, to the extent that any of them prove to be commercial, move into the development program.

So, about as planned, but certainly a higher level of activity recently than a couple of years ago.

PAVEL MOLCHANOV: Appreciate the color on that. And then just real quick, any changes at PNG LNG on either startup of -- timing startup or CapEx estimates?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: No, I don't have any updated information. That project is on plan and doing fine. And we continue to project that we are going to deliver first LNG out of there sometime in 2014, so that project is going well.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: We probably have time for one last question.

OPERATOR: Mark Gilman, The Benchmark Company.

MARK GILMAN: David, what specifically was the gain on the Western Canada asset sale in the quarter?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Mark, as I typically do or don't do, I really don't have a number specifically for any one asset sale in a quarter.

MARK GILMAN: Okay. I'll try just one other one in light of that. Was there any lifting variance at all in this quarter, David, that could have impacted the upstream side sales less than or greater than the underlying level of production?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: You know, as we look quarter on quarter sequentially, I don't recall there being any impact.

MARK GILMAN: Okay, thanks very much.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: All right, well, I will conclude the conversation, then, by thanking everyone for your time today and your questions. And we will look forward to the second-quarter earnings call in July. Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: This does conclude today's conference. We thank you for your participation.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
exxn : Exxon Mobil Corporation
   IN
i1300014 : Natural Gas Extraction | i2512 : Basic Organic Chemicals | i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i25 : Chemicals | iextra : Natural Gas/Oil Extraction | i1300003 : Crude Petroleum Extraction
   NS
cnatrd : Natural Reserves/Resources Discovery | csbnew : Starting a Business | e211 : Government Taxation/Revenue | gmora : Motor Racing | c11 : Plans/Strategy | c15 : Performance | c22 : New Products/Services | m143 : Energy Markets | ntra : Transcript | c151 : Earnings | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | csmlbs : Small Business/Entrepreneurs | e21 : Government Finance | ecat : Economic News | gmoto : Motor Sports | gspo : Sports/Recreation | m14 : Commodity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter | nrgn : Routine General News
   RE
usa : United States | qatar : Qatar | cana : Canada | asiaz : Asia | gulfstz : Persian Gulf Regions | meastz : Middle East | namz : North America | wasiaz : Western Asia
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020110512e74s006sh
  


 HD
 Q2  2010  Exxon  Mobil Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
10,054 words
   PD
29 July 2010
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©010 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
OPERATOR: Good day and welcome to the ExxonMobil Corporation's second quarter 2010 earnings conference call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time for opening remarks, I would like to turn the call over to the Vice President and Investor Relations Secretary, Mr. David Rosenthal. Please go ahead sir.

DAVID ROSENTHAL, VP & IR SECRETARY, EXXONMOBIL CORPORATION: Good morning, and welcome to ExxonMobil's teleconference and webcast on our second quarter 2010 financial and operating results.

   TD
As you are aware from this morning's press release, ExxonMobil's second quarter earnings and operating performance were strong. Reflecting the successful execution of our long term investment plan and the disciplined focus on operational excellence. We continue to see the effects of mixed economic activity around the world, impact the pace of economic recovery, and near term supply and demand balances. While crude oil prices remain well above levels of a year ago, natural gas prices and downstream margins have shown only modest improvement. Chemical performance was strong in the second quarter, and continues to reflect the value of our world scale facilities, proprietary technology and premium product offering.

Before we go further, I would like to draw your attention to our cautionary statement. Statements of future events or conditions are forward-looking statements. Actual results, including resource recoveries, volume growth and project outcomes, could differ materially, due to factors I discuss, and factors noted in our SEC filings. Please see factors affecting future results and the Form 8-K we furnished this morning, which are available through the Investor section of our website. Please also see the Frequently Used Terms and the 2009 Financial and Operating Review on our website. This material defines key terms I will use today, and shows ExxonMobil's net interest in specific projects.

Now, I am pleased to turn your attention to the second quarter results. ExxonMobil's second quarter 2010 earnings were $7.6 billion. An increase of $3.6 billion, from the second quarter of 2009, reflecting higher crude oil prices, upstream volume growth, improved downstream margins and strong chemical results. Earnings excluding special items were also $7.6 billion, up $3.5 billion from 2009, as last year's earnings included a $140 million special charge related to interest on the Valdez settlement. Earnings per share, excluding special items, were $1.60, up $0.76 from a year ago. During the quart-- during the second quarter of 2010, ExxonMobil distributed more than $3.4 billion to shareholders, including dividends of over $2 billion and share purchases to reduce shares outstanding of about $1.4 billion. Again, demonstrating our commitment to return cash to shareholders.

Turning now to our business line results, and some of the milestones we have achieved since the last earnings call, first in the upstream, on June 25, 2010, ExxonMobil completed the merger with XTO Energy Inc. Through this transaction, we have acquired a resource base in excess of 45 trillion cubic feet of gas equivalent at a cost well under $1 per KCF equivalent. ExxonMobil is now the largest natural gas producer in the US. On a combined basis, the XTO merger will almost triple ExxonMobil's US natural gas production from 1.3 billion cubic feet per day to nearly 3.7 billion cubic feet per day. With this addition, ExxonMobil's global unconventional portfolio now exceeds 8 million acres.

During the quarter, ExxonMobil progressed our plans in the West Qurna-1 field in Iraq. We are pleased with the progress we, and the South Oil Company, are making to restore and enhance recovery from this field. Production uplift and longer term redevelopment activities continue to advance. We also began establishing our offices in country. In addition, ExxonMobil was selected to lead a concept selection study for a large scale sea water supply system. We have initiated work on this study with the Iraqi ministry of oil, other government ministries and IOCs, with field rehabilitation contracts in the area. Overall, we are on target with our planned activity.

In compliance with the US drilling moratorium, ExxonMobil suspended drilling activities offshore the US, including activities at our Hoover Diana platform in the Gulf of Mexico. Plans for an appraisal well at the Hadrian discovery in the Gulf of Mexico were also delayed. Our production operations have not been affected by the moratorium, and we do not anticipate it to have a significant impact on our 2010 production outlook. ExxonMobil is actively involved in significant industry efforts to improve prevention, well intervention, and spill response capabilities.

In July, ExxonMobil, along with Chevron, Conoco Phillips and Shell, announced a plan to build and deploy a rapid response system that will be available to capture and contain oil in the event of a potential future underwater well blowout in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico. The four companies have committed $1 billion to fund the initial cost of the system and will form a nonprofit organization called the Marine Well Containment Company to operate and maintain this system. Deepwater production is critical for meeting future energy needs.

Turning now to activities in our unconventional resource portfolio, a significant level of drilling activity continues in the US. During the quarter, we spud the first well on our Berkus Ranch acreage in the Eagle Ford shale of South Texas. ExxonMobil holds 50,000 acres in this emerging shale gas plain. In the Haynesville shale gas play, we recently commenced production from the first well on acreage held by ExxonMobil prior to the XTO merger and a second well is near completion. In the Marcellus, we have six wells on production with an additional five wells ready for tie in, and three wells waiting on completion. During the second half of 2010, we plan to further increase activity in the Haynesville, Fayetteville, Marcellus, Eagle Ford and Bakken shall plays.

Moving to Canada, we continue to evaluate our significant acreage position in the Horn River shale gas play. Completion operations are underway on the 2009 and 2010 winter season wells. Five more wells are planned for the next drilling season, which will begin in the fourth quarter of this year.

Moving to our active global exploration drilling program. In the Turkish Black Sea, we are completing the subsurface technical evaluation of our operated blocks and expect to begin exploratory drilling in 2011. Our partners progressed drilling on the [Sinnott-1] exploration well and we anticipate completion in the third quarter. In the Romanian Black Sea our partner, Petrom, has completed acquisition and processing of a new 3-D seismic data set and we are progressing the technical evaluation of the block. In Indonesia we continue drilling and evaluation of our Deepwater acreage.

Moving to the Philippines, we drilled our third exploration well in the Deepwater block SV56, in the [San] Dokken Basin in the Sulu Sea and have made another gas discovery. Drilling of an additional prospect is planned to commence in the third quarter. Finally, our partners commenced drilling the Lona Exploration Well in the Orphan Basin offshore Newfoundland, and we expect to reach the objective in the third quarter.

Turning now to the upstream operating results, upstream earnings in the second quarter were $5.3 billion, up $1.5 billion from the second quarter of 2009. Upstream after tax earnings per barrel were $14.67 in the second quarter of 2010. Higher crude oil prices and natural gas realizations increased earnings by $1.6 billion. Worldwide crude oil realizations were up over $18 per barrel and natural gas realizations were up $0.55 per KCF from second quarter 2009. Volume and mix effects increased earnings by $110 million, driven by the project start ups in Cutter. Other affects decreased earnings by $170 million due primarily to the absence of last year's settlement of the offshore California lease litigation. In total, oil equivalent volumes increased over 8% from the second quarter of last year.

Entitlement volume effects, including price and spend impacts and PSC net interest reductions decreased volumes by 100,000 barrels per day while lower OPEC quota effects increased volumes by 53,000 barrels per day. Excluding the impact of entitlement effects OPEC quotas and divestments, production was up almost 360,000 barrels per day or nearly 10% as project ramp ups in Cutter and Kazakhstan more than offset net field decline.

Liquids production decreased 21,000 barrels per day from the second quarter of last year. Excluding the impact of entitlement effects, OPEC quotas, and divestments, liquids production was up about 1% as project ramp ups in Cutter and Kazakhstan more than offset net field decline. Gas volumes increased nearly 2 billion cubic feet per day or almost 25% from the second quarter of 2009, driven by new project volumes in Cutter and higher demand in Europe partly offset by net field decline.

Turning now to the sequential comparison, versus the first quarter of 2010 upstream decreased about $480 million. Overall, realizations decreased by $130 million, primarily due to lower natural gas realizations. Volume and mix effects reduced earnings by $450 million, driven by seasonally lower natural gas demand Europe and increased scheduled maintenance activities, mainly in Cutter. Other items contributed $100 million to earnings. Liquids volume -- liquids production decreased 89,000 barrels per day, primarily due to increased scheduled maintenance activities. Natural gas production was down 14%, as new project volumes in Cutter were more than offset by seasonally lower demand in Europe and increased scheduled maintenance activities. In total, oil equivalent volumes were down 8% from the first quarter. For further data on regional volumes, please refer to the press release and the IR supplement.

Moving now to the downstream. Earlier this month, ExxonMobil and synthetic genomics announced a significant step forward in the research and testing of algae biofuels with the opening of a new greenhouse facility in La Jolla, California. A new facility moves the project from a laboratory setting to an environment that better reflects real world conditions for algae production. ExxonMobil and SGI researchers are using the facility to evaluate whether large scale quantities of affordable fuel can be produced from algae.

Our refining business continues to progress investments in projects to reduce emissions and improve air quality. For example, at our Sarnia Refinery in Canada, a new, state of the art facility to lower sulfite -- sulfur dioxide emissions was recently commissioned. Progress also continues in our efforts to reduce sulfur levels in transportation fuels. At our Antwerp Refinery in Belgium, a new high-pressure [hydrocheater] capable of meeting lower sulfur specifications for diesel is in the final stages of construction. At our Sriracha Refinery In Thailand we have begun work on a clean fuels project to produce low sulfur diesel and gasoline with commissioning anticipate by year end 2011.

Turning now to the downstream operating results, downstream earnings in the second quarter were $1.2 billion, up $710 million from the second quarter of 2009. Higher margins increased earnings by $780 million, driven by higher industry refining and marketing margins. Volume and mix effects increased earnings by $170 million, including the benefits from our refining optimization efforts. Other factors decreased earnings by $240 million, mainly due to negative foreign exchange impacts. Sequentially, second quarter downstream earnings increased by nearly $1.2 billion. Higher margins increased earnings by $830 million, reflecting improved industry refining and marketing margins. Volume and mix effects increased earnings by $90 million, reflecting improved seasonal demand. Other factors increased earnings by $260 million, including favorable tax items and asset management activities.

Turning now to our chemical business, during the quarter, ExxonMobil reached a significant milestone in the expansion of our integrated chemical and refining complex in Singapore, with the arrival of seven world scale furnace modules. Combined with ExxonMobil's state of the art proprietary technology, these furnaces are part of a feed flexible steam cracker that will have an ethylene production capacity of 1 million metric tonnes per year. In addition, the expanded complex will produce a range of premium products to capture demand growth in Asia. The anticipated mechanical completion and start up activities will be phased in beginning later this year and continuing through 2011.

Turning now to chemical operating results, second quarter chemical earnings were $1.4 billion, up $1 billion from the second quarter of 2009. Stronger margins improved earnings by $840 million, driven by continued strong feed stock advantage and higher realizations. Volume and mix effects increased earnings by $120 million, volumes increased 4%, reflecting the Fujian start up as well as condition recovery from the depressed demand levels seen in 2009. Other effects improved earnings by $40 million.

Sequentially, second quarter chemical earnings increased by $120 million. Higher margins increased earnings by $310 million, as realizations increased despite some impact from new industry capacity coming on stream in Asia. Positive volume and mix effects increased earnings by $80 million. Other effects decreased earnings by $270 million, largely due to the absence of asset management activities and unfavorable foreign exchange impacts.

While we manage our downstream and chemical businesses separately, we continue to capture benefits from the unique integration and optimization of these businesses. Our combined second quarter earnings were $2.6 billion, up $1.7 billion from second quarter 2009, reflecting the competitive advantage of our integrated downstream and chemical business model.

Turning now our corporate and financing segment, corporate and financing expenses were $365 million during the quarter. Compared to $600 million in the second quarter of 2009. This is less than our continuing guidance of $500 million to $700 million, with the reduction mainly due to favorable tax effects. Compared with the first quarter of 2010, corporate and financing expenses decreased by about $440 million, reflecting the absence of the expense associated with the US healthcare legislation and favorable tax effects. The effective tax rate for the second quarter was 43%.

At the end of the second quarter, our cash balance was $13 billion, and debt was just over $20 billion, including $11.4 billion of XTO debt at fair market value. As we indicated in our recent teleconference, we will look for economic opportunities to restructure the XTO debt obligations in order to reduce debt service costs, and to enhance capital structure flexibility. Since the XTO closing, we have repaid $800 million of XTO's commercial paper and bank loans. In addition, in July, we repurchased $2.5 billion of XTO's long-term bonds in a very successful tender offer. These actions will significantly reduce ongoing cash interest payments with a small negative one-time impact on third quarter earnings.

The corporation distributed $3.4 billion to shareholders in the second quarter through dividends and share purchases to reduce shares outstanding. Of that total, about $1.4 billion dollars was distributed to purchase shares. Total purchases for the quarter were limited due to trading restrictions related to the XTO energy transaction. Following XTO's proxy solicitation period, we resumed open market purchases. Share purchases to reduce shares outstanding are expected to be $3 billion in the third quarter of 2010. CapEx in the second quarter was $6.5 billion, in line with spending in the second quarter 2009. We continue to invest in robust projects through the business cycle, to help meet global demand for crude oil, natural gas and finished products.

In summary these strong results reflect the strength of ExxonMobil's business model. We remain confident that our long-term perspective, financial strength, and disciplined investment approach will continue to deliver superior, differentiated results and position us well for the future.

That concludes my prepared remarks and I would now be happy to take your questions.

OPERATOR: Thank you, Mr. Rosenthal. (Operator instructions). And we'll take our first question from Doug Terreson with International Strategy and Investment.

DOUG TERRESON, ANALYST, ISI GROUP: Good morning, David.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Good morning, Doug, how are you?

DOUG TERRESON: I'm doing fine. In refining and marketing, you guys had a strong result. And I noticed a growth in refinery throughput (inaudible) exceeds sales in both the US and Asia-Pacific again, which seems to be a recurring feature in the recent quarters. And on this point, I wanted to see if you could provide some insight into this dynamic in both regions, that is, does the trend relate to increased exports or efficiency gains in refining, which I think you referred to? Or is there a sales mix dynamic on the marketing side that's in place? So any color on this pattern is appreciated.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Sure, Doug, if we look at our refining throughput in the second quarter of 2010 versus last year, we were down overall across our global circuit about 98 KVD, or a couple of percent.

DOUG TERRESON: Right.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: We did see some, some geographic mix along those lines, the US and Europe were up and Asia-Pacific was down considerably due to some -- due to a lot of planned maintenance.

If we look at our refining throughput in relation to our sales, there are a number of factors going on there in terms of optimizing the refinery, as well as we have had a number of divestments in our marketing business. And you'll see some of the discontinuity there between, between throughput and, and sales in the marketplace. But other than that, nothing, nothing of any consequence to really focus on.

DOUG TERRESON: Okay. So let me ask you one more question just to clarify. So are these numbers adjusted for portfolio management activities?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: No, they are straight up and don't affect any adjustment. What you see is the impact of the portfolio management activities in the reduction, particularly in final product sales.

DOUG TERRESON: Okay. Thanks.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: All right.

OPERATOR: And we'll go ahead and take our next question from Evan Calio with Morgan Stanley.

EVAN CALIO, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Good afternoon, thanks for taking my call.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Evan, are you are you?

EVAN CALIO: I'm good. I'm good. Look, I know you discussed there was for impact on production from the Gulf of Mexico. Yet with at least one rig in the gulf, I think you mentioned drilling Hadrian, are there any thoughts given the moratorium or rig availability to accelerating any of your other exploration prospects? And also while you did mention most of the things that we were looking for in 2010, you didn't mention Brazil and exploration activity and I want to confirm you are still expecting to spud that in 3Q or any update there?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Sure. Let me, let me hit those in the reverse order you asked them. We are still planning to span our third well in Brazil in the fourth quarter of this year, so no change to those plans.

When we look at the moratorium impacts in the Gulf, there is really no near term impact for us either way. We did have to suspend work on the Hadrian 3 well, but that is just -- that's a timing issue, and if you really, if you step back and look at our global exploration activity, that is progressing as planned. No real changes in terms of moving things around, either from a timing perspective or geographic perspective, so we are continuing on. You are starting to see, I think some of the benefits of having a very diverse portfolio. We don't have any one footprint more than the others across the world, so, so slight delay in the Gulf of Mexico, but progressing full speed ahead in the rest of the world.

EVAN CALIO: Okay. Thank you. And great quarter in the downstream. My second question is on the downstream. Can you provide any color on Asian utilization? I know 1Q lower utilization drove lower profitability this quarter. It is even lower. I mean, is this -- how can we think about the operation of these assets going forward? Is this primarily driven out of Japan?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: The, when we look at that area of the world, it's really a very simple story. It is a maintenance and turn around story. We have had heavy, heavy turn around activity in the second quarter. We did see a little offset with the successful start up of Fujian, but really when you look at the, at the profitability of our non-US results quarter to quarter we did see an increase, again, given the higher industry refining and marketing margins. But that was, as I mentioned, offset somewhat by the turn around activity. But other than that, going forward, wouldn't expect to see any major change. Get the turn arounds and planned maintenance behind us and, and then move on with the business.

EVAN CALIO: Great. Thank you.

OPERATOR: We'll take our next question from Jason Gammel with Macquarie.

JASON GAMMEL, ANALYST, MACQUARIE RESEARCH EQUITIES: Hi David, how are you today?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Morning Jason, I'm doing fine. How are you?

JASON GAMMEL: I'm great, thanks. Jason, I appreciate the qualitative comments about your pickup in activity in North American natural gas. I believe your rig count's up to about seventy-five now. Do you think you'll continue growing from there? And is there a target level that you have, say by year end, for number of rigs running in the US?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: We look at that, at our unconventional portfolio. As I mentioned we are seeing a ramp up in activity and we've seen certainly seen a fairly significant ramp up since the end of last year. We are finding that we have a, a very high quality, very deep inventory of drillable prospects in our unconventional acreage position, both what we had prior to the merger and then of course, with the recent merger with XTO.

So it, it's our expectation that overall drilling activity would continue to increase. As I mentioned in our prepared remarks, it's really across-the-board in all of the major plays, where we continue to, I mean, we are only a month into this merger, but we are already well underway with activities to optimize the portfolio between the heritage ExxonMobil and XTO assets, making sure we have equipment in the right place to generate the highest returns and profitability. And while we don't have any specific target for year end, or any objective that we are shooting for, we certainly, again, do see a number of opportunities to pursue. And I would expect to see the rig count continue to increase as we go across the year. And that's all related to, to activity, which continues to increase. And again, we are really starting to see the benefits of combining the two organizations, and getting after this, this massive, high quality portfolio of unconventional acreage that we have to deal with.

JASON GAMMEL: That is very helpful, thanks, David. If I could, for my second question, shift over to the chemical segment. Obviously phenomenal margin environment in the second quarter. Can you talk about the business conditions you have seen thus far in the third quarter? And if we should think about the second quarter as being a peak? Or if it's been reasonably sustainable?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Thank you for the comment on the chemical business. We are extremely pleased with the results that we've seen in the second quarter. As you know, across the industry, we did see some demand continue to improve, versus last year. Both in the US, as well as, as overseas. We benefited greatly from our ability to, to manage our feed stocks and take advantage of lower cost feed stocks to run. And the other thing we saw really is an outcome of our focus on operational excellence. We had very high run rates and utilizations, particularly in the US, when some others were down. So rather than looking at it, as an anomaly, I would say particularly from an operating performance and feed stock advantage, we really saw the benefit of our facilities in integration with the downstream.

Now, as we look out forward for the rest of the year, you know, it's hard to predict what's going to happen. A lot of that will depend on overall economic activity. And that will be a big driver. There are, I think, as you were alluding to, some, some new start ups, [Kracker] is starting up in the industry, particularly in the Middle East and Asia-Pacific, and I think it would be natural to expect some pressure on prices and margins as those units come on stream. But you know, that's the nature of the chemical business. This stuff comes on in lumps. We are building our, of course, our huge expansion in Singapore, and as you mentioned some of the other facilities are coming on.

So if we look long-term we are still very positive and bullish on the industry and our prospects, like our position, we are invested through the cycle and again we are very pleased with the earnings performance in the second quarter and optimistic on the long-term profitability of that business going forward.

JASON GAMMEL: I appreciate your comments, David.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Doug Leggate with Bank of AmericaMerrill Lynch.

DOUG LEGGATE, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Thank you. Good morning, David.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Good morning, Doug.

DOUG LEGGATE: A couple of things, David, that, I guess the first one, my kind of favorite one I guess, is the -- some color on where you are in ramping up some of the major projects that you had over the last twelve months. I guess if you could just kind of give us an update, where Al Khaleej and perhaps the seventh trains in Qatar now stands, and maybe an outline for what the major project starts are we should expect over the balance of this year? That would be my first question please.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Okay. Yes. That is something I'm very happy to give you an update on. When we look back over the last twelve to eighteen months of -- at the very large -- really, the culmination of a very large investment program as you noted, all of our trains are up and running and at capacity today. That, that investment has been a great success story for us. As you know we brought the trains up last year and train seven this year. And again they are up and running flat out and performing very well and those projects contributed greatly to both the volume growth that you saw in this quarter as well as earnings.

AKG2 is also up and running. We went through start up and commissioning in the second quarter, and that project is coming along well and meeting our expectations. So if I were to put my arms around the whole suite of investments, particularly the ones in Cutter, we are very please with how that's gone. Things continue to go well and, and as we take a look at the results, we are seeing the returns that we expected when we approved these investments early on and again, we are pleased with how things are going.

As we look to the balance of this year, we are looking to start up the Odoptu project in Sakhalin later here in the third quarter and that project is going well, as have all of our projects at Sakhalin to date. And then later in the second half we will be commissioning and starting up the Golden Pass LNG re-gas terminal. So, all of the projects are on schedule, things are going well, and then of course longer term we continue to make great progress on the Pearl project, as you know that is scheduled to start up by year end 2012. Gorgon is progressing well with our partners there, and the Papua, New Guinea LNG project is also progressing well. So, number of things going on, pipeline continues to be good and things continue to go really just as we had expected.

DOUG LEGGATE: Would you say, David, that the start up costs that really had depressed some of your, I guess you could call it, your capture rate in the upstream, is that largely washed through the system now? Or do you still feel you are being, you're being weighed down by some of that on a unit earnings basis?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: You saw a lot that last year as we were starting up the large trains in Cutter. As we come into this year, of course, you continue to see some of those impacts, impacts with train seven starting up earlier in the year and then of course the Al Khaleej-2 start up and commissioning of those facilities here, here in the second quarter. So, we are still seeing some of that on unit profitability as we crank these, these projects up. But again was we look at the projects and how they are performing, their profit contribution, as well as the returns we are getting, we are pleased with what we are seeing and again, it is really pretty much as we had, had expected.

DOUG LEGGATE: Great stuff. My second question is more, more, I guess, general relating to the moratorium, David. Your announcement mid quarter relating to, I guess, after the quarter, relating to the deepwater response and the you know the agreement you have struck with the other operators, can you just give us some color? What kind of response have you had from the administration? How has this maybe played into your discussions? And if you could just frame your thoughts, or Exxon's thoughts, as to how this moratorium may play out over the balance of the year? Perhaps when you get back to work in the Gulf of Mexico? If you can put a -- you know, some color on that?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Let me talk about the marine well containment system with's announced with our partners. That of course, is a, is a very nice proactive industry effort. We've already committed $1 billion dollars to it and I can tell you the response across-the-board has been positive. I think people view this as a positive step on industry. To, to look at the response side of the equation. And we are really meeting with legislators and government officials and policy makers and others in industry, on an ongoing basis. We are very engaged, and this, of course is just one of many efforts we and others in industry are taking really to, to improve both prevention and response from these type of events.

As we look out the balance of the year at the moratorium, I really don't have you know, really, any comment or outlook as to, as to what the eventual duration of that moratorium will be or what the impacts will be coming out of it. We'll just have to wait and see as things play out. And, and you know, as the circumstances allow, we are anxious to get back to work on our portfolio in the Gulf, and continue business as normal.

DOUG LEGGATE: Got it. Thanks a lot, David.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Thank you.

OPERATOR: And we'll take our next question from Paul Cheng with Barclays Capital.

PAUL CHENG, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Hey, good morning, David.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Morning Paul.

PAUL CHENG: So sorry, a number of very quick questions. In Iraq, can you give us some idea that when you would actually hit on the ground start drilling? Any kind of time line you can share?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Well you know, Paul, things are, things are progressing, in Iraq as I mentioned in my comments. We are very pleased with how things are going. I would tell you that, that with all the progress that were being made and the planning and up front meetings with our partners, and the appropriate government agencies, things are progressing well, planning is progressing well. We are doing some contracting right now with vendors that will obviously be required for, for drilling and well work of existing wells. So I don't have a target for when the first we'll going to be down or when the first you know the next work over's going to happen. But I will tell you that things are progressing. And as you might have heard, we are also currently leading a concept selection study for a common sea water facility, that is underway and as I mentioned in my, in my prepared remarks, working with both the appropriate government industries, as well as others in the area. So again, I would have to summarize Iraq as things are progressing, things are moving along, as we had planned, but it's still pretty early to start talking about specific dates or times or objectives.

PAUL CHENG: Can you share with that how many people that Exxon employed that you may now on the ground?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: You know, I don't have that exact count. But we do have people in country. And we do have plans and efforts underway to set up our office facilities. Again, you know, we are kind of progressing in due course. As you would expect, building the operations, building the organization, getting squared away. I think the most important thing is, is to really come up with the right plan to achieve the objectives that we have. Execute that plan, and make sure that you stay on track. And I would say we are meeting those objectives kind of as we go along here. So things are progressing, and each quarter, you know, we'll be able to give you a little more of an update on the actual results.

PAUL CHENG: Okay. Dave, in your second quarter Africa, oil production sequentially dropped from 666,000 barrels (inaudible) per day to about 600 barrels per day. Is there any major maintenance work in the second quarter lead to that decline? Or is just the normal field decline in the PSC effect?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Well, there is a, there is a few things going on in West Africa and you hit them. We did see the impact of higher prices on our PSC entitlements. We also saw some -- there we did see some decline and some maintenance. We did have, you know, some scheduled maintenance that we were doing. We've also seen some, some timing of liftings around there, but nothing out of the ordinary.

PAUL CHENG: Okay. How much is the maintenance piece that led to the sequential decline?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Look at the maintenance impact on the sequential decline, it was not as big as the as the PSC impacts. But it was, you know, a portion of that. But literally, really, the biggest impact were the PSC effects, followed by decline, and then the maintenance.

PAUL CHENG: Okay. A final question. Can you the share with us what is the affect loss on the sequential basis from the first quarter by (inaudible)? And also that (inaudible) what is the price finalization impact for the quarter, also by (inaudible) sequentially through the first quarter?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: On the 4X, Paul, are you interested in sequential, or quarterly?

PAUL CHENG: Yes sequential from the first to the second quarter.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Sure. Actually overall it was pretty small. In total we were under $100 million in total. And if we look at the segments, we had very little in the upstream, slightly positive. Downstream less than $50 million negative, chemicals less than $100 million negative. So, so not a, not a lot, but certainly there. If we look at sequential, if we look at price finalization, if you look at sequential, there was really no impact. We saw some impact quarter on quarter but not sequential.

PAUL CHENG: Okay. How about in the tax gain or loss by (inaudible)?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Excuse me?

PAUL CHENG: How about the tax adjustment? Any special -- ?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Oh, oh, okay. Sure. We did see some tax effects, one time positive tax effects. Both in corp and fin, and the downstream, they weren't major relative to other impacts like, like margins and volume, but we did have some favorable effects in the downstream. But again --

PAUL CHENG: Are we talking about $100 million, $200 million or less? Any kind of rough guideline?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Yes, you know, if you look at what we're doing, it was notionally in that, in that $100 million to $200 million range.

PAUL CHENG: Okay. Very good. Thank you.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Sure.

OPERATOR: And we'll go to our next question from Robert Kessler with Simmons & Co.

ROBERT KESSLER, ANALYST, SIMMONS & COMPANY INTERNATIONAL: Hi David.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Hi. How are you today?

ROBERT KESSLER: Good thanks. Two questions for you. The firstly, with respect to your ramp up in North American onshore gas activity, do you think of that component as your portfolio as being a net user of cash flow after CapEx over the next few years? You know, hedging aside, obviously, as you liquidate that position, over time. Call it at $5 gas will it be using more cash flow than it generates as you ramp up activity?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: I think, I think if you look at what our plans are as we work on that, that resource again, both what we had prior to the merge and now that, that combined portfolio, our focus there is really on,on the activity increasing, the rigs and increasing the activity, executing our plan as we, as we go about the business and optimizing. If we look out, over time, we do expect all of that to be accretive to cash flow. As we ramp up activity, and ramp up the production there. But again, I have to say, the real focus of the organization today is optimizing the portfolio, getting the resources in the right place, getting activity increases where we can generate the most cash and the most earnings. And then again really looking at how we integrate technology into this business because that is one of the real levers that we expect to get out of this.

So, I'll tell you, we haven't spend a lot of time you know working on the specific financial parameters, and it is really a focus on operations excellence, resource development, optimization, still pretty early. But I'll tell you we are a month into this and we are very excited over what we're seeing in terms of both opportunity generation, as I mentioned, the inventory, as well as the benefits we're getting of combining our two organizations. And again, starting to look at what technology advantage we can get by bringing ExxonMobil's technology into this resource. So accretive to cash flow, over time, but more importantly, the ability to develop this resource, and add shareholder value.

ROBERT KESSLER: Justify to clarify. You say accretive to cash flow over time. I'm trying to I guess ask whether it lives within cash flow after CapEx? Is that how you are defining accretive to cash flow? Or?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: You know, when we look at the business, and how we are managing it, in terms of cash flows, it is our expected that on an operating cash flow basis it's going to be accretive. The levels of CapEx and, and exactly the timing of those, as they relate to activity, I really don't have any specifics. Particularly on a quarter to quarter basis. But again, over time, we expect this thing to generate attractive returns, and be accretive to cash flows, and take advantage of that.

ROBERT KESSLER: Okay, thanks for that. And then my other quick question was on the common sea water facility study any Iraq. Can you give us some perspective on timing and deliverables from that study? You know, any kind of early thoughts on the size of a processing plant and CapEx, obviously those are probably things that will be under study. But any incremental color there would be appreciated.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Sure. I think you've, I think you've hit the nail on the head. All of those things are currently under study. We have just gotten this effort, effort underway. And of course the things you have to do is size this thing, figure out what's needed in what time frame, hit the timing, and pace of the investments, and all of that. And we are really just at the early stages of that effort and that project. And, and we'll certainly have more to say, as time goes by.

I think, I think what's really important is it does, of course, represent a step forward, not only for ExxonMobil but the rest of the industry. And the Iraqi ministries, as well. It is going to be a complex study, a lot of partners, many stake holders. But I, but I will tell you we have a fairly ambitious time line here. Probably about a twenty week study, which again, is pretty ambitious, given the size of it. But we are excited to be leading this and look forward to progressing it and again, keeping that progress march toward meeting our objectives.

ROBERT KESSLER: Great. Thank you very much.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Thank you.

OPERATOR: And we'll go to our next question from Faisel Kahn with Citigroup.

FAISEL KAHN, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Good morning, David.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Good morning, Faisel, how are you?

FAISEL KAHN: Good, how are you doing?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: I'm good, thank you.

FAISEL KAHN: All right. You mentioned a few times in our prepared remarks and in an earlier question about maintenance namely in West Africa and also in Qatar. Can you give us an idea of what the, what the volume impact was for your maintenance schedule this, this season?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: If we look at maintenance kind of across the business, particularly sequentially, as you know, as we head into the second quarter, you typically see an increase in scheduled maintenance relative to the first quarter. And so both as we looked kind of geographically in the North Sea, we, we see the maintenance there. And then I highlighted Africa. If we look at some of the specifics on, on liquids, looks like it's about oh, 90,000 barrels a day on liquids is related to maintenance. On the gas side, probably across-the-board, in order of 500 MCF a day across the projects. So, and that, of course, would be mainly in Cutter as we are having some scheduled maintenance. So nothing out of the ordinary. Everything is on schedule and as planned. But you do see those, those impacts kind of across-the-board and particularly in Africa on the oil side, and then Cutter on the gas side.

FAISEL KAHN: Okay, and I think you mentioned under liftings, too. What were you underlifted by in the quarter?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: It was really, if you are looking at, at the, the earnings contribution from the volumes, it was just, we saw some, some timing, the lifting across the quarter, particularly if you look at where we were in the second quarter of this year, versus the second quarter of last year, and it's, it's notionally, about 50,000 barrels a day.

FAISEL KAHN: Okay. Got you. And I was wondering if you could give me any update on what's going on in your lower Saxi area or, for that matter, eastern Europe? Have you had any success with your extended reach wells and have your unconventional drilling in the area?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Yes, as we look at that portfolio, we are continuing to progress activities in, in both Germany as well as in Poland. If we look at what's going on in Germany, of course as you'll recall, we have both a shale gas play there as well as a couple of million acres of coal bed methane. On the shale side, as you know, I think we have talked about before, we do have three wells down, we have also taken -- acquired some new seismic data and that evaluation is ongoing, so we still have an active program underway to evaluate that. The wells that we drilled are being evaluated. As, as I mentioned as is the seismic and we have plans down the road to continue drilling in the shale.

On the coal bed methane side, we are planning operations for our first drilling activities, and those plans are underway, and we'll add that to the evaluation that we have been doing across that play. So ongoing, continued progress, those are long-term ventures, long-term prospects. Good news is, we, again, I think as I have mentioned before, we have a very long holding period there and, and we are progressing. In, in Poland, we continue to progress our activities there as well. With the evaluation efforts going on, planning for wells, but in terms of actually drilling horizontal wells and fracturing or testing, we haven't, we are not at that stage yet, but we are certainly progressing to that point.

So continuing to do the evaluation work, pleased with the opportunity and the potential of that large resource, and progressing really with the evaluation.

FAISEL KAHN: Great. And last question. On the XTO assets, I believe before the, before the transaction was consummated, the foot of notional production growth target for XTO was about 10% for this year. Is there any reason to think that that won't continue?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Well, I don't really have a specific outlook for you, for the year, other than to say CapEx and investment is on plan. We are continuing drill the wells, and I don't have any information that would suggest that there is any change in, in that outlook. I think if you look at what ExxonMobil said at the March Analyst's Meeting and some of the data you referenced for XTO and you combine those two, I wouldn't, I don't think there, there is any change in that combined outlook for the balance of the year.

FAISEL KAHN: Great. Thank you very much.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Thank you.

OPERATOR: We'll go to our next question from Edward Westlake with Credit Suisse.

EDWARD WESTLAKE, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Hey, good morning David.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Good morning.

EDWARD WESTLAKE: Just a quick one. International exploration, a big program obviously 2010 and 2011, you had a high expense international exploration in Q1 and obviously down substantially in Q2. Maybe justify some color on whether that is activity or it's recognition of, of discoveries? And you spoke about San Dokken, I think you said, said gas a second discovery. Maybe a comment on the pathway for commercialization there?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Sure. We'll start out with the international exploration program that is progressing as planned. As you know we have, have drilled a number of prospects over the last year of we have a number more to go in some of our very large program efforts that we have underway and some new play concepts. You do see a decrease in exploration expense from first quarter to second quarter, and that is just the timing of dry hole expense for the, for the wells, and first quarter was higher in the second quarter.

As we look towards the well that I mentioned, it was a gas discovery in the Philippines. It's, it's way too early to talk about development timing or concepts. We have a number of other prospects to drill, and we continue to develop plans to do that. So, certainly a positive outcome on the wells to date. But a little early to be talking about size and development planning.

EDWARD WESTLAKE: Thanks. And then my second question is around cash flow. Obviously you got the, the limited disclosure. But $9.6 billion including asset sales of $0.5 billion, do you have a number for what the working capital was? Movement in that to try and get cash flow from operations before working capital moves?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Sure, if you are looking at the cash flow change from the second quarter of this year to last year, we did see, in total, cash from operations of about $6.6 billion. The real impact there is, is the, is the cash, the increase in earnings of $3.6 billion and then really, it is the absence of the $3 billion pension payment that we made last year. Working capital was pretty marginal, quarter on quarter.

EDWARD WESTLAKE: Okay. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Mark Gilman with Benchmark Company.

MARK GILMAN, ANALYST, THE BENCHMARK COMPANY: Thank you, David. Good morning. I had a couple of volume related questions, if you didn't mind. I'm guessing XTO contributed about 125 million a day to the quarter production on the US gas side. Is that about ride right?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: You are pretty close. It was 135 MCF a day.

MARK GILMAN: Okay. Good enough. On the -- your discussion regarding the West Africa. It is my understanding, I think, that there was a net interest effect reduction in the quarter, which shows up in one of, in one of your variance charts. Is that in fact true? And did it occur in Angola?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: It was about 25 kbd, and that was in Angola.

MARK GILMAN: Okay. I guess you did not specifically mention Thunder Horse maintenance. Give me a rough idea what the impact of that was on the second quarter volumes?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Sure, and I'm glad you raise that. When we look at our liquids change quarter on quarter, Thunder Horse was a piece of that notionally in the 15,000 to 20,000-barrel a day impact to us in the US.

MARK GILMAN: That is net to you David?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Yes that would be net to us.

MARK GILMAN: Okay and finally, just a little bit of an update on how the [Pionce] program is going?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: The Pionce program has been progressing very well. We did see a nice ramp up in volumes in the, in the second quarter compared to the first quarter. In fact, we were at about 170 mcf a day, in Pionce, and that is progressing nicely.

MARK GILMAN: That 170 compares to what in the first quarter, David?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: If we look quarter on quarter on Pionce, that impact was, it was about -- I don't have that right here. I think if we look, it was notionally 30, I think as I recall.

MARK GILMAN: And that's --

DAVID ROSENTHAL: 30 MCF a day.

MARK GILMAN: And that was second quarter '09 or first quarter '10?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: That was, I think, we are looking at second quarter 09 -- second quarter '10 versus second quarter '09, it is about in that range.

MARK GILMAN: Okay. Thank you very much David.

OPERATOR: And our next question comes from [Pavil Mochenov] with Raymond James.

PAVIL MOCHENOV, ANALYST, RAYMOND JAMES: Hi, thanks for taking my question. First one on XTO. Can you talk about retention rates? And particularly, are they tracking with your pre-closing expectations?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Yes. That is a very positive impact for us. Since the, since the merger, and you know, as we said in our teleconference a couple of weeks ago, if you went all the way back to the announcement in December 2009, forward to the closing of the merger, we were looking at about 1%, which was actually lower than XTO had experienced in the past. We are now a month into, into the post merger time frame, and we really haven't seen any change in a, in attrition rates. I would tell you, really kind of flip that coin over. What we are seeing is tremendous level of excitement and enthusiasm, not only from the XTO organization, but from the ExxonMobil folks that have joined that organization. And I'll tell you, everybody's working hard on optimization, and, and really excited about the synergies of those two companies can generate together. And we are just not seeing any attrition.

PAVIL MOCHENOV: Appreciate the color on that. And then just quickly can you give a quick update on the PNG/ LNG project.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Sure the Papua, New Guinea LNG project continues to progress on schedule. We've got a lot of -- lof of work going on. We are spending a fair amount of money as we speak. And, and a lot of the, the site work and other project work is ongoing. And, and, you know, we expect to continue this project on schedule. Continue the execution of, of the construction. We've got a lot of engineering and procurement and contracting going on. A lot of early works. Kind of the normal activity you would see when you are building a big LNG facility. We'll get to work on pipeline works in the second half and just a lot of work progressing as you would expect.

PAVIL MOCHENOV: Thank you.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Paul Sankey with Deutsche Bank.

PAUL SANKEY, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Hi David.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Morning Paul, are you are you?

PAUL SANKEY: Good thank you. Quickly, because I know we are running out of time, on the Gulf of Mexico and Washington, DC, I was wondering what the Exxon view is for the appropriate level of liability and whether or not, I guess, we could assume that unlimited liability would ultimately be an advantage for bigger companies with very big balance sheets? Thanks.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Paul, it would be hard for me to speculate on, on what the final outcome might be on any, any legislation or any changes in liability estimates. I know there is a lot of discussion in Washington these days on a number of topics. That being one of them. As you would expect, we're part of that dialog engaged in Washington, engaged with the policy makers, making sure everybody is aware of the various consequences that might come out of a number of the things that are being considered. But with regard to a specific item, like the liability cap, really wouldn't have a comment.

And then likewise, when we talk about potential opportunities, out of that, you know, there again, I would have to say, it's early, and it's tough to speculate, given the tremendous uncertainty about how all of this might shake out, you know, when the dust settles and the smoke clears. So I think we'll, we'll really have to wait and see how things turn out and then, as you would guess, we'll take advantage of any opportunities that come along that add value. But it's really too early to speculate on the final outcome.

PAUL SANKEY: So there isn't a specific Exxon, if you like, policy regarding what would be appropriate from a liability standpoint?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: No, we really, I really wouldn't have anything specific to offer up on that.

PAUL SANKEY: Okay David, thanks a lot.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Paul.

OPERATOR: And our next question from Blake Fernandez with Howard Weil.

BLAKE FERNANDEZ, ANALYST, HOWARD WEIL INCORPORATED: Hi, good morning, David. Thanks for taking my question.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Morning Blake. How are you?

BLAKE FERNANDEZ: My question is on share repurchases. I know you have given the guidance for next quarter, but just from a big picture standpoint we have seen the cash balance diminish over the past couple of years quite dramatically as you have continued to repurchase shares, but we have really seen it kind of stable out between call it the $10 billion to $15 billion range recently. And I'm just curious, is that, is the current run rate of $2 billion to $3 billion a year -- a quarter of share repurchases kind of the good run rate until that cash balance begins to kind of increase? Is that a good way to look at it?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: I think, a really good way to look at, at the share repurchases is really in the context of what we've talked about before. That is really our fly wheel. As we look at our operating cash flows, look at our OpEx requirements, funding the investment plan, paying the growing dividend, and then as we've said the balances available for share repurchases. We do look at that on a quarterly basis, taking a number of factors into account, I don't have any forward guidance for you, other than that you have seen in the third quarter, we did increase the share purchase rate over and above what we were doing prior to the merger and we are back in the market. We are expecting to buy about $3 billion worth in the quarter.

When we look at our cash balances, of course those are, those are subject to the cash flows of the business and dependent to a great extent on global commodity prices and margins. But as we look at our overall cash needs and wanting to maintain flexibility within a conservative capital structure, we kind of manage all of this together and don't have any specific target on any one of the items. So, so really, all I can tell is cash flows were strong, we did end the quarter with about $13 billion in cash and we are going to buy about $3 billion of shares back in the third quarter.

BLAKE FERNANDEZ: Okay. Good. Fair enough. Thanks David.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Thank you.

OPERATOR: And that does conclude the question and answer session today. At this time, Mr. Rosenthal, I'll turn the conference back over to you for any additional closing remarks.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Thank you very much. Just to conclude and wrap-up today, I would like to thank everybody for your time and your thoughtful questions. Enjoyed the opportunity to visit with you and look forward to talking again in a few months about our third quarter results.

OPERATOR: And that does conclude today's conference. We thank you for your participation.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
exxn : Exxon Mobil Corporation
   IN
i3251 : Mining/Oil/Gas Field Machinery | i1300013 : Natural Gas Exploration | iindstrls : Industrials | i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i32 : Machinery/Industrial Goods | iexplo : Natural Gas/Oil Exploration | i1300003 : Crude Petroleum Extraction | iextra : Natural Gas/Oil Extraction
   NS
cnatrd : Natural Reserves/Resources Discovery | c11 : Plans/Strategy | c15 : Performance | c151 : Earnings | m143 : Energy Markets | ntra : Transcript | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | m14 : Commodity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020100812e67t0028x
  


 HD
 Q1  2009  Exxon  Mobil Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
8,891 words
   PD
30 April 2009
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©009 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
OPERATOR: Thank you for standing by, and welcome to the ExxonMobil Corporation first quarter 2009 earnings conference call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time for opening remarks, I would like to turn the conference over to the Vice President of Investor Relations and Secretary, David Rosenthal.

   TD
DAVID ROSENTHAL, VP, SECRETARY, EXXONMOBIL CORPORATION: Good morning, and welcome to ExxonMobil Mobil's teleconference and webcast on our first quarter 2009 financial and operating results. As you are aware from this morning's Press Release, ExxonMobil's first quarter earnings performance reflects the strength of our business model during this period of global economic weaknesses. Crude oil and natural gas prices were well below the levels of a year-ago, reducing the absolute level of earning. However, our operating performance was strong and we delivered solid results. While we continue to see significant changes in markets and in our industry, ExxonMobil remains committed to investigating in our portfolio of advantage projects throughout the business cycle; and we remain well positioned for the future, as a direct result of our long-term focus, capital discipline, financial strength, and rigorous approach to risk management. Before we go further, I would like to draw your attention to our cautionary statement. Please note that estimates, plans and expectations are forward-looking statements.

Actual results, including resource recoveries, volume growth and project outcomes, could differ materially due to factors I discuss and factors noted in our SEC filings. Please see factors affecting future results and the Form 8-K we furnished this morning, which are available through the investor section of our website. Please also see the frequently used terms, the supplements to this morning's press release and the 2008 financial and operating review on our website. This material defines key terms I will use today, shows ExxonMobil's net interest in specific projects, and includes our SEC Regulation G disclosure. Now I'm pleased to turn your attention to the first quarter results. ExxonMobil's first quarter 2009 earnings and earnings excluding special items were $4.6 billion, a reduction of 6.3 billion from the first quarter of 2008, reflecting a sharp reduction in commodity prices. Earnings per share were $0.92, down $1.10 from a year ago.

During the first quarter of 2009, ExxonMobil distributed a total of $9 billion to shareholders, including dividends of $2 billion, and share purchases to reduce shares outstanding of $7 billion -- again, demonstrating our commitment to return cash to shareholders. Reported results and the earnings per share calculation are consistent with the new FASB accounting standards adopted by the Corporation in the first quarter of 2009. Please refer to page 6 in our press release for more information. I would now like to share some of the milestones we have achieved since the last earnings call. In April, ExxonMobil and our joint venture partners inaugurated the Cutter Gas 2 project at Ras Laffan Industrial City Cutter. This project recognizes another technological milestone that will make cleaner burning natural gas available to significantly more people across the globe. The project includes two Liquefied Natural Gas trains, Trains 4 and 5, each of which is designed to produce 7.8 million tons per year of LNG, about 50% more than any other LNG train currently in service worldwide.

Both trains are expected to start up this year. In addition to the two LNG trains, the Cutter Gas 2 project includes a fleet of the world's largest LNG carriers, and the South Hook LNG terminal Cutter 2 project includes a fleet of the world's largest LNG carriers in Milford Haven, Wales. The first cargo arrived at the South Hook terminal in March. The terminal adds to the U.K.'s LNG import capacity and energy diversity with the ability to deliver up to 2 billion cubic feet of gas daily into the natural gas grid when full operational capacity is reached. The Cutter Gas 2 project represents industry's first linkage of natural gas production, liquefaction, shipping and regasification infrastructure together into a sing fully-integrated LNG development and supply initiative.

In total, we expect nine major project startups during 2009: Four LNG trains in Cutter; Cutter Gas 2, Trains 4 and 5; and RasGas Trains 6 and 7; the South Hook LNG terminal; the Adriatic LNG terminal in Porta Levante, Italy; Al Khaleej Gas Phase 2 in Cutter; Piceance Phase 1 in Colorado; and the [Tereance] project offshore Norway. These major project startups demonstrate our continuing commitment to bring additional oil and gas supplies to market. During the quarter, ExxonMobil's US production operations earned the Gas Processor's Association 2009 Company Safety Award. This marks the third time in four years that ExxonMobil's US production organization has earned this award, demonstrating our continuing commitment to industry-leading safety performance. In exploration, the semi-submersible drilling rig West Aquarius began drilling the [Raincong] 1 well in the deepwater [Suro Monto] block offshore Indonesia. The West Aquarius joins the West Polaris as the second of three new state-of-the-art drilling rigs we will utilize to evaluate our highly perspective deepwater acreage portfolio over the next few years. [Raincong] 1 is the first of several wells that the West Aquarius will drill offshore Indonesia and the Philippines during the course of this year.

In Brazil, the West Polaris moved from the Azula well in block BM-S-22 to spud the second well in the drilling program, [Agironi] well. The well is currently drilling ahead to target depth. During the quarter, we also continued to progress our high potential unconventional natural gas opportunities around the world. In the Horn River Basin in Northeastern British Columbia, Canada, and in the Lower Saxony basin in Germany, we continued the initial phase of our drilling and evaluation program on our significant shale gas acreage. In the Mako Trough in Southeast Hungary, we continue drilling and evaluation operations on several wells in this tight gas play. Testing operations will begin later in 2009. Also during the quarter, we were the high bidder for 15 blocks in the recent Gulf of Mexico lease sale.

Moving now to the downstream. During the quarter, we inaugurated a new, high-efficiency co-generation plant at our refinery in Antwerp, Belgium. Co-generation, the simultaneous production of electricity and useful heater steam, is significantly more efficient than traditional methods of producing steam and power separately, resulting in lower operating costs and fewer green house gas emissions. This high efficiency unit is capable of reducing Belgium's carbon dioxide emissions by an amount equivalent to removing about 90,000 cars from Europe's roads. Also it refining, we continued our activities to reduce raw material costs by managing our crew flexibility. This quarter, ExxonMobil ran 30 crews that were new to individual refineries. In our lubricants business, ExxonMobile introduced the new Mobil [DTE-10-XL] series of lubricants. This new family of lubricants is designed to meet the needs of numerous industrial and off-highway sectors. These products are another example of our ongoing commitment to help consumers improve the efficiency and productivity of their operations, enabled by our proprietary technology to develop new, specialize product formulations.

Turning now to our chemical business. During the first quarter, ExxonMobil announced plans to build a technology center in Shanghai, China, to provide product application support for our growing business throughout Asia. The selection of Shanghai as the site for our new technology center reflects the important of Asia in the business development and growth plans for our chemical business. The technology center is expected to be operational in 201 and will support our growing sales of premium products, by providing innovative solutions to a wide range of customer needs. Now turning to the business line results, upstream earnings in the first quarter were $3.5 billion, down $5.3 billion from the first quarter of 2008.

Upstream, after-tax unit earnings in the first quarter of 2009 were $9.32 per barrel. Sharply lower crude oil prices and lower natural gas realizations in all region reduced earnings by about $4.9 billion. Worldwide crude oil realizations were down over $52 per barrel, and natural gas realizations were down $1.28 per KCF from first quarter 2008. Volume and mix affects reduced earnings by $130 million. Other affects decreased earnings by $280 million, due primarily to increased operating expenses reflecting higher activity levels. In total, oil equivalent volumes increased slightly from the first quarter of last year. Entitlement volume affects, including price and spend impacts and PSE net interest reductions, increased volumes by 62,000 barrels per day, while OPEC quota effects reduced volumes by 123,000 barrels per day. Excluding the impact of entitlement effects, quotas and divestments, production was up over 2%. Major project ramp-ups in the US, West Africa and the North Sea, and lower maintenance activity, more than offset natural field decline. Liquids production increased 7,000 barrels per day from the first quarter of last year. Excluding the impact of entitlement effects, OPEC quotas and investments, liquids productions was up over 3%.

Major project ramp-ups in the US, West Africa and the North Sea and lower maintenance activity more than offset natural field decline. Gas volumes decreased 34 million cubic feet per day from the first quarter of 2008, reflecting lower demand in Europe. New project volumes in Cutter, the North Sea and Malaysia more than offset natural field decline. Turning now to the sequential comparison versus the fourth quarter of 2008, upstream earnings decreased $2.1 billion, primarily due to lower crude oil and natural gas realizations. Higher crude oil and natural gas volumes increased earnings by $200 million. Other effects reduced earning by $810 million, as lower gains from asset sales and negative tax and foreign exchange impacts more than offset the benefit of lower expenses. Liquids production increased 3,000 barrels per day, as new project volumes, lower maintenance and positive entitlement effects more than offset the impact of OPEC quotas and natural field decline.

Natural gas production was up 3.5%, driven by seasonally higher demand in Europe. Oil equivalent volumes were up 1.5% from the fourth quarter of 2008. For further data on regional volumes, please refer to the press release and IR supplement. Turning now to our downstream results. Downstream earnings in the first quarter were $1.1 billion, down $30 million from the first quarter of 2008. Higher margins increased earnings by $720 million, primarily due to stronger refining margins, including positive price finalization effects. Marketing margins were also higher. Volume and mix effects reduced earnings by $370 million, driven primarily by lower global demand.

Other effects were negative $380 million, including adverse foreign exchange impacts and higher activity-driven operating expenses. Sequentially, first quarter downstream earnings decreased by $1.3 billion. Lower margins reduced earnings by $700 million, driven by lower marketing and refining margins, including adverse price finalization affects, partly offset by the absence of negative inventory change impact. Volume and mix affects decreased earnings by $50 million. Other factors reduced earnings by $530 million, driven by lower asset sales and the absence of positive LIFO affects.

Turning now to our chemical earnings, first quarter chemical earnings were $350 million, down $680 million from the first quarter of 2008. Weaker margins reduced earnings by $270 million, reflecting lower realizations, while volume effects were negative $290 million, primarily due to lower demand. Other effects reduced earnings by $120 million, including negative foreign exchange impacts, and hurricane-related repair costs. Sequentially, first quarter chemical earnings increased by $200 million. Weaker margins reduced earnings by $70 million, while positive volume mix effects increased earnings by $130 million.

Other effects were positive $130 million, with lower hurricane related impacts and reduced operating expenses, partially offset by the absence of a positive LIFO affects. Turning now to our corporate and financing segment, consistent with our expectations, corporate and financing expenses increased by $347 million versus first quarter 2008, primarily due to lower interest income, reflecting both a reduced cash balance and lower interest rates. These results also included the impact of positive tax effects. Compared with the fourth quarter of 2008, corporate and financing increases by $53 million.

As we look forward, we currently expect corporate and financing charges in 2009 to be in the region of 500 to $700 million per quarter. The effective tax rate for the first quarter was 45%. At the end of the first quarter, our cash balance was $25 billion, and debt was $9 billion. The Corporation distributed $9 billion to shareholders in the first quarter through dividends and share purchases to reduce shares outstanding. Of that total, $7 billion was distributed to purchase shares in excess of dilution, reducing the number of shares outstanding by almost 2%. Share purchases to reduce shares outstanding are expected to be $5 billion in the second quarter of 2009.

Yesterday, our Board announced an increase in the quarterly dividend to $0.42 per share. ExxonMobil has paid a dividend each year for more than a century, and increased it's annual dividend payment for 27 consecutive years. CapEx in the first quarter was $5.8 billion, an increase of 5% from first quarter 2008, and in line with our previous guidance. We continue to invest in robust projects through the business cycle to help meet global demand for crude oil, natural gas and finished products.

In summary, these results reflect the strength of ExxonMobil's business model. We remain confident that our long-term perspective, financial strength and disciplined investment approach will continue to deliver superior differentiated results, and positions us well for the future. That concludes my prepared remarks. I would now be happy to take your questions.

OPERATOR: Thank you Mr. Rosenthal. (Operator Instructions). Our first question will come from Doug Leggate with Howard Well.

DOUG LEGGATE, ANALYST, HOWARD WELL INC.: Can you hear me okay?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: We can hear you fine.

DOUG LEGGATE: Great stuff. I've got a couple questions. The first one, I think you kind of addressed it with your corporate guidance there, but as far as the interest income last year was concerned, given that the cash balance is now declining, you can quantify that? Assuming basically no interest income underlying corporate expense going forward?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Good morning, Doug. You're right, with regard to our interest income, it was down significantly from the first quarter of last year. And again, that was due both to the smaller cash balance as well as the interest rates available in the market. We did have, of course, some income this quarter. But again, our focus with regard to cash management has been and continues to be preservation of our cash.

DOUG LEGGATE: Okay. Hopefully this doesn't qualify as a third question, but the question, I guess, is when you look at your $25 billion cash balance, it's now down $15 billion from a year-ago. Where do you see that going? And in terms of how you manage it, how aggressive will you be with share buybacks, given the low commodity? Because a $5 billion clip per quarter, you start -- basically will wipe through that pretty quickly here. So can you just conceptualize how you that about that, please?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Well, Doug, first of all, we're really not prepared to provide any guidance beyond the second quarter; whereas I mentioned just a little bit ago, we do expect to spend about $5 billion on share repurchases. As we've said before, share purchases is the flywheel with our cash. Our first objective with our cash is to fund our very robust investment program, and we are continuing to do that through the first quarter of this year and onward. The second thing we've always said we do with our cash is pay the dividend. And as I mentioned a little bit ago, we're pleased to announce that yesterday our Board did increase the dividend by $0.02 a share a quarter. After funding the investment plan and the dividend, we do take a look then at the share repurchases. But again, beyond the guidance for the second quarter, I'm really not prepared to offer anymore guidance. But of course, we'll adjust the rate of purchases as appropriate, as we manage our cash balances while maintaining flexibility to implement any future plans that we may have.

OPERATOR: Our next question is from Michael LaMotte with JPMorgan.

MICHAEL LAMOTTE, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Thank you. And David, I apologize if you went over this at the beginning of the call, because I did get on a little bit late. But could you provide an update on the status of Cutter Gas 2 Train 4, and when that could be expected to be fully up and running?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Sure, Michael, I would be happy to talk about Cutter 2 Train 4. Our progress and commissioning is proceeding well. We did start up the train in the -- in March, and we actually produced our first LNG and loaded a cargo. Since that time, Cutter Gas has brought Train 4 down to correct some issues identified during our rigorous commissioning and our startup process. As you know, these are very large trains. This is the first of four, and and we have a very rigorous disciplined approach to commissioning and startup, and we are pleased with how that is going. And obviously, any lessons learned from this startup will be applied to the train. But we do expect LNG production will again commence in the near term. But all in, we're very pleased. We feel very good about how that startup went. It's a lot of equipment, and we're very pleased with how things are going so far.

MICHAEL LAMOTTE: Any specifics on timing?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: I wouldn't want to give any specifics, other than to say that the work is progressing very well on a couple issues thatwe're resolving, and we would expect that to start up in the near term.

MICHAEL LAMOTTE: Perhaps as my related follow-up, perhaps you could just remind us of ExxonMobil's philosophy on liquefaction capacity utilization, particularly as it pertains to demand and pricing in the end markets?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Sure, Michael, I would be happy to talk about that. As we've mentioned before, one of the things that makes our investment in the LNG business in Qatar unique in the industry is we have a fully-integrated value chain from the gas -- from the North Field through liquefaction, the largest LNG trains are ever built and the largest ships ever built to transport the LNG as well as our terminals that we have located in major -- in major margin. This gives us really an advantage project at the lowest LNG cost. It is competitive in all of the markets that we serve. Our intention is to start these trains up safely and successfully and run them, and make that gas available to markets worldwide.

MICHAEL LAMOTTE: Any reason it wouldn't run at 90%, 95%?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: There is no reason that we won't run those trains to their full capacity after, again, a safe and successful startup.

MICHAEL LAMOTTE: Great. Thank you, Dave.

OPERATOR: Our next question is from Neil McMahon with Sanford Bernstein.

NEIL MCMAHON, ANALYST, SANDFORD BERNSTEIN: Hi. A few questions again. Maybe just still back on Qatar gas to Train 4. Could you go into the what the startup problems were? And obviously on something which is brand new from the scale of this project, there are go to be some issues to begin with, but I'm wondering if that will delay, as you said, with the lessons learned, biller projects coming up this year?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Yes, let me just first reiterate. We had a very successful commissioning process and startup. All of the equipment worked as we had expected. Again, these are very large, very complex trains. And again, we're very pleased with how things started up. We did produce a cargo. And then Cutter Gas took the train down again for some maintenance. I really don't have a lot of details on what the items were. They were a few different things. But again, our focus is on the long-term nature of this project and getting the first train here, Train 4, up and running again. But we do not foresee any issues with our plans to start up its next three trains.

NEIL MCMAHON: Okay. Maybe just looking at the situation in the chemical market, what was your chemical plant utilization in the quarter? It looks like -- as expected, I suppose, pretty weak demand for chemicals. So maybe if you could mention the utilization, and roughly your outlook in the near term for chemicals globally?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Yes, rather than talk in terms of plant utilization rates, I think what we ought to focus on is the general demand situation. We did see weak demand across our geographic sectors, as well as across our products; some to differentiating degrees than others, but general weak demand all around. As we've said for a long time, this is a very cyclical business. We are certainly experiencing one of the downturns in that cycle. But we are maintaining a very long-term focus, continuing on with our investment program and looking forward to being well positioned when the market turns around.

I can tell you where we're sitting today, we really do not have any outlook on changes in demand going forward. It's probably a little early to tell. Again, it's a very large diversified business; and generally speaking, consistent with the global economy, demand is weak. And we cannot predict how long that will take; but again we are very pleased with our portfolio, both the manufacturing facilities as well as the product mix that we have to offer. And we're managing this business through the downturn as we have in the past. And we're very, very pleased with our position in the industry when this thing turns around.

NEIL MCMAHON: Okay. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Our next question is from Mark Flannery with Credit Suisse.

MARK FLANNERY, ANALYST, CSFB: Good morning. I wonder if you could comment in general terms on costs. I know earlier in the call, you mentioned that operating costs were a little higher year-over-year in the upstream, and described these as activity-based. We've heard from other big oil companies that costs are falling in the upstream on a unit basis. Could you maybe give us some color on what you're seeing in your portfolio?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Yes. I would be happy to comment on OpEx. Obviously, this is a very important topic in our industry, given where we are in the current economic climate. But let me step back just a second and talk broadly about cost management at ExxonMobil, because it does transcend all of our business units, and then I'll give you a couple of specifics. As you know, keeping a relentless focus on cost management has been a hallmark of ExxonMobil for a very long time and throughout our business cycle. We do not wait for downturns in the market to get to work on efficiencies and cost savings. We learned a long time ago that if you don't let your checkbook get out of control in the good times, you don't have to slam on the brakes and disrupt the organization when the market turns down a little bit.

We feel very good about our ability to maintain our cost leadership, given our size and scale and global reach. And all of that combined with our single global procurement and contracting organization. We are confident that we're getting the lowest prices for goods and services that the market has to offer. But nonetheless, as you'll see in our detailed first quarter filings, our costs in total are down significantly versus the first quarter of 2008. In fact, our total expenses are down about 10%, or just under $2 billion before tax quarter-on-quarter. Now of course, lower energy costs are a big piece of that, as are some favorable foreign exchange affects that the dollar has strengthened against some of the other major currencies. But I will also note we also delivered several hundred million dollars of savings as a result of both operating efficiencies and divestments.

I'll also add, on an ongoing basis, we are see something decline in vendor rates and material prices flowing through to our operating expenses. So once again, I would like to say that if you look at our business over long-term, we maintain that focus on cost management, and that allows us to grow the business, and invest through the business cycle and execute our plans for the business.

MARK FLANNERY: Great. Maybe the second question would be related to that, which is, let's assume for the sake of argument that vendor pricing and capital costs continue to fall through 2009. Do you think there is a chance for you to underspend your capital budget this year and still achieve the same results?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: That's an excellent question. As you'll recall, at our Analyst Meeting in March, we did table a figure of about $29 billion in CapEx. We said at the time that that was our best estimate, given everything we knew that was going on. Obviously, there are puts and takes in that. Some of our partners have announced a need to perhaps adjust their investment plans, and that might flow through a little bit. But where we're sitting today, that is still -- still looks like a pretty good -- a pretty good estimate. I would like to comment, though, just on that $29 billion.

That's not a target, okay? It's not a minimum. We would be happy if costs come down due to our rigorous efforts in cost management to spend less, to achieve the same level of project activity. But I also need to turn the coin over and say that that $29 billion figure is also not a cap. And as the year progresses, if new opportunities that weren't originally in our plan present themselves, we're fortunate to have the financial flexibility and the organizational capability to take those projects on if we see them and they come along. So in summary, I would say we feel pretty good about that $29 billion from where we are today. It's a very large business and a lot of factors go into that, but it's pretty early in the year; and we're very, pleased primarily with the progress of our projects, and how our plans are proceeding. And CapEx looks pretty good for the year.

MARK FLANNERY: Great. Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Our next question is from Mark Gilman with the Benchmark Company.

MARK GILMAN, ANALYST, THE BENCHMARK COMPANY: David, good morning.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Good morning, Mark. How are you this morning?

MARK GILMAN: Good, thanks. David, with my two questions I just want to go back to two previously raised subjects, because I guess my understanding just isn't clear. With respect to the cost issue, I listened very carefully to what you said; however, that seems to be contradicted by what you had to say with respect to segment earnings variances. If overall costs are down by anywhere near the amount that you suggested, I frankly do not quite understand how in your discussion of the upstream and downstream suggests, higher operating expenses would have been considered a factor. The other thing is the corporate guidance. There must be something else that is occurring in order to take that number to 500 to $700 million per quarter after-tax. It seems to me, if you were were to eliminate the full amount of any interest income in 2008, based upon a 30-odd billion dollar cash position, you would not get corporate charges or an increase in corporate charges in the magnitude that is being suggested. So I would appreciate some additional clarification as to what is driving that. Thanks.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Mark, I would be happy to answer both of those. Let me start up -- off with our earnings factor analysis, just to be clear. One of the things I mentioned in that 10% reduction in overall costs as booked, of course, is the impact of lower energy prices. They have a major impact. And of course, those show up in our waterfall charts in the margin column. The other factor that's in there is some favorable foreign exchange that helped in the OpEx; but as you know, the foreign exchange on the other side hurts on the translation of local European currency revenues, and if you net both of those off, it's not a big factor, and we put that in the other category.

The efficiencies and impacts of divestments that I mentioned; again, we had several hundred million dollars in underlying efficiencies, but those were offset by new business growth and opportunities that were progressing, and activities that we have under way in the various businesses. So we're very pleased, as I mentioned, with how our OpEx is coming along this year and how we're responding to the business. Let me hit the corporate guidance for just a second on corp and fin. A number of factors, as you know, are in the corp and fin. The interest income piece is a big piece of that. As we've talked over the years, tax effects come and go and can vary quite significantly as we go along.

As we look in total at this year versus last year and what is going on in corp and fin, we also have some increased pension expense that flows through there. But again, it's not material. So it's a number of factors; but overall, wanted to just let you know that about 500 -- I thought it would be helpful, if we had guidance around 500 to $700 million for each quarter for the balance of the year. But again, I need to stress, that will move around as things come and go.

MARK GILMAN: Thanks, David.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: You're welcome.

OPERATOR: Our next question is from Paul Cheng with Barclays Capital.

PAUL CHENG, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Hey, guys.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Good morning, Paul, how are you doing?

PAUL CHENG: Good morning. Very good. Dave, on the $29 billion of the CapEx for this year -- sorry to ask that question again -- what is the percentage of that amount that is currently not (inaudible) to already singed fixed contract? In other words, what is the percentage that may be subject to the benefit of the (inaudible) spot price?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Oh, Paul, that's an excellent question. I don't have -- I don't have the numbers in that kind of detail. But as you know, depending on where you are in the product cycle. Projects that are finishing up, the CapEx for those won't be changed at all by the changes in prices and rates. Projects that are in the beginning are middle stages that might have had long lead time equipment purchases a year or two ago. Those aren't impacted. And then you move on into the balance of the projects, particularly those that are just getting underway, that's where we have a focus really on our ability to lower costs. So if you look at the projects that are underway and well along, obviously the focus there is on executing those projects and successfully starting them up.

As we look into the projects that are in the development and start, and we're just getting construction underway, we are, of course, working those very hard, particularly on some of our large projects that we're just now getting underway. So I would say all in again, we think that $29 billion number, given where we are today, looks pretty good. But rest assured, any opportunity we have -- and we work this hard every day, to bring those costs down -- we're more than happy to do so and come in under that. But again, we're also on the lookout for new opportunities --

PAUL CHENG: And Dave, I fully understand that. If you do not have that number, is there something that you guys might be willing to share ,or maybe Mike or someone else from your team after the call may be able to give me a call and just shed some light for me?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Paul, I really don't even think we even have that detail. And if we did, we really probably would not -- we typically just would not disclose that. But we'll give you a call and see if we can't help you out a little bit on that.

PAUL CHENG: Okay. If I could have a second question. With the Obama Administration, they have a long laundry list of what they are trying to hit on the oil industry. I'm sure that you guys probably already looked at that. Do you have any rough estimate that if all those proposals are indeed being enacted, what is the total hit on you guys?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: It's way early to talk about what impacts might be from legislation that might be passed. Obviously, there are a lot of ideas out there and a lot of discussion going on.

PAUL CHENG: Well, can we ask that if you do not have -- not willing to share a number, is there any particular one proposal that may hit Exxon more than the other proposals based on what you guys can currently identify?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: No, Paul, I would say there really isn't any one proposal. What I would offer, though, is we want to be part of the debate. We are look forward to discussing the issues of energy supply with the Administration -- and again, be an active part of that debate. There's lots to discuss on very important issues. But we're really not prepared at this point to speculate on what might come about and what impact might be on ExxonMobil.

PAUL CHENG: Can I sneak in a really quick question, one more?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Okay.

PAUL CHENG: I think it was asked about the cash or the dividend policy. Just trying to understand, I mean, if I look at in the first quarter, your cash burn rate is roughly about -- maybe over $6 billion, and your dividend is -- and your cap -- you capital spending based on the $29 billion is going to be increased by about $2 billion for the second quarter level for the remainder of the year -- and that's assuming you underspend a little bit on that. So you reduced your -- the share buyback program from the first to second quarter by $2 billion, so that would suggest that you're still burning roughly about $6 billion of the cash. And wondering, I mean, how should we look at -- do you think that you feel comfortable at that kind of burn rate, or that over time you want to manage it to a substantially lower burn rate?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Paul, I really do not have any guidance to give overall on burn rates or share buybacks, other than what I've mentioned, which is we are intending to or planning to spend $5 billion on share buybacks in the second quarter. But again, if you look at our cash balance and the strength of our balance sheet, we have the flexibility to fund a very robust investment plan, pay the growing dividend that was announced yesterday, take advantage of any opportunity that might come along; and then after all of that, we'll take a look at the cash balances and look at the share repurchase program. cash balances and look at the share repurchase program. But again, I think the important thing is to -- that really distinguishes ExxonMobil in this regard -- is the strength of our balance sheet, our AAA credit rating, our very strong cash flows, low level of debt, just leave us well positioned to take advantage of opportunities as they come along. And of course, the other thing that affects a cash burn rate over a long period of time is our disciplined approach to investing. And we remain very pleased with the decisions we've made over the last few years and how the business looks going forward.

PAUL CHENG: Okay. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Our next question is from Erik Mielke with Merrill Lynch.

ERIK MIELKE, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: Hey, good morning, David.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Good morning, Eric.

ERIK MIELKE: My first question relates to your production outlook for 2009; and just trying to take stock of where we are right now compared to where we were two months ago when you gave your guidance of, let's call it modest growth for 2009. The things that have changed since then, I guess, would be more information on where OPEC quotas are taking you, and then also what is happening in Qatar. And I was a little bit surprised by some of your European gas sales. My question is, are you still comfortable with that guidance, or do we need to think about adjustment to that guidance for OPEC quotas or perhaps Qatar as well?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Thanks. That's a good question. I'm happy to talk about that. It has been less than two months since our meeting where we did talk about a production outlook of about 4 million barrels per day. As we mentioned at the time, there are a lot of puts and takes around there and a lot of thing that can sway that. But where we're sitting today, we still think that's a pretty good outlook. Again, in the context of our very long-term approach to investing, I'll tell you the projects that we have on the table that we're progressing are all progressing well, and we're very pleased with that. And of course, the production in any quarter or any given year will be a function of how those projects come online. But you mentioned OPEC quotas. The gas trains, as I mentioned, are coming on as planned over the course of the year. And all in with what we're looking at, we would still expect to come in around that 4 million barrel a day mark; and more importantly, as we look out over the next several years, meet those target -- meet the outlook that we showed you in the analyst meeting.

ERIK MIELKE: That's great. Thanks. My follow-up question relates to Sakhalin-1 where the trade press is talking about progress that you've made in your negotiations with the Russian government on domestic gas. You can give us an update on that project, please, and what are the key milestones to look forward to?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Yes, I would be happy to. First of all, if you look at the Sakhalin-1project, to date we have been very pleased with how that project has come along. We are very pleased with the production and performance with that project, and it's performing well. As we look into 2009 and beyond, as you read in the press, we did have a delay getting the budgets approved for some -- for some of the projects and the work planned for this year. We successfully worked through that with the local officials. And those work plans and budgets are approved, and we continue to progress the development of the [Odock] 2 project, and we're also working on the activities for [Arkutin Dargie] development.

So that whole project is underway and working well. As opposed to the gas supply, our -- we can confirm that the Sakhalin-1 consortium is prepared to supply an addition at 1.5 BCM a year of gas to the Russian domestic market, and we continue to evaluate all viable options and work with the appropriate government authorities to work through that. But again, there is a lot going on, a lot of things we're working on. But I think the most important thing is keep in mind is so far that project has met our expectations, met the government's expectations, and delivered well. And we feel very good about how we're moving forward and progressing our plans for the balance of that project.

ERIK MIELKE: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Our next question is from [Fasil Khan] with Citigroup.

FASIL KHAN, ANALYST, CITIGOUP: Good morning.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Good morning, Fasil, how are you?

FASIL KHAN: Okay, how are you doing?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: I'm fine, thank you.

FASIL KHAN: All right. I just want to confirm the production you guys reported in Asia PAC and Middle East, it was down sequentially quarter over quarter. Is that -- I take it that is all OPEC production cuts?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: That would certainly be a big piece of that in the Middle East. We do produce a lot of volumes out of there and yes, that would be a major factor there.

FASIL KHAN: Okay. And I just want to confirm. In your prepared remarks, I think you said that you had started up the production in the Piceance basin, is that correct?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: We are progressing Phase 1 in the Piceance basin, and that project is progressing well. As we've said in the past, that is a very large resource and it gives me the -- gives us the opportunity to really apply some of our technology. And yes, we did -- we did get the startup in the second quarter. And we would -- and as we move on, we're continuing to progress that project.

FASIL KHAN: And there's no reason to think that you would slow down the pace of that production profile (inaudible)?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: No. The good thing about the Piceance project is we're developing that in phases. We're take a very long-term approach to a very large resource. We do have the flexibility around pace; but I can tell you where we're at today, we're progressing Phase 1 in the project per the plan.

FASIL KHAN: Okay. One last question.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Sure.

FASIL KHAN: On -- your petroleum product sales in Europe fell off pretty precipitously from the fourth quarter to first quarter of '09, and I was wondering if you could just give a little color around that -- what you guys see going on in Europe? Do you see further declines given the economy, or are you seeing stabilization there?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Well, first of all, as you noted, those volumes are down considerably. And really, it just reflects underlying changes in demand. And as we look across the quarter, as we sit here today, it's just too soon to tell anything about the future going forward. We'll have to see how the general economy progresses going forward. But it's just too early to tell. And there is really no data out there that gives us the ability to make any predictions or draw any conclusions about what the near term demand might be.

FASIL KHAN: Okay. Great, I appreciate the time. Thank you.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Sure.

OPERATOR: Next question is from Paul Sankey with Deutsche Bank.

PAUL SANKEY, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Hi, David.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Good morning, Paul, how are you?

PAUL SANKEY: Okay. Thanks. I just have follow-ups, really, David. The first one really goes way back to the first question, I think, regarding your cash balance. Is it fair to say that you do not want to hold cash on your balance sheet? Essentially, you would be looking over time to work your cash balance towards zero?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: What I would say is there is no change to our cash management approach. If you look a long time over history, we've not typically carried large cash balances. But again, I think, Paul, you have to stand back and look at what our overall objectives are in this regard. And one of the foremost ones is to maintain our AAA credit rating and the strength of our balance sheet and maintain our ability to invest in our opportunities that we have in front of us and pay our dividends; and as I said before, once we do that, we'll evaluate our cash position and look at our share buyback. But I think the important thing is really the approach to risk management that we've had with our cash over the last year or two, and the wise use of that cash going forward.

PAUL SANKEY: But you would still say that holding cash is low return, right?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Well, I would say over the long-term -- again, historically, we don't tend to hold large cash balances. But as you know, this is a cyclical business and cash flows do tend to move up and down with the general industry conditions. And then we'll use that cash as we move along and keep our balance sheet strong, and again, as we said before, maintain the capital discipline and not do anything dumb with the money.

PAUL SANKEY: Okay. I think I -- I'll just move on to my other questions and come back with a follow up on CapEx. But if I could just on Europe, you mentioned project start ups in the North Sea. You mentioned weather; but at the same time, it seems to me that your volumes in Europe on oil are down 10% and your natural gas is down 3%. Could you specify what the project startups were and how big they were? And I guess what I'm trying to infer is the underlying decline rates there must be pretty aggressive.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Let's step back and look at what happened in sales overall from first quarter of last year to first quarter of this year. We did see demand drop down, as we mentioned and as you've noted. And we don't think that was weather related. If you look at the degree days and that sort of thing, I think the winter was at least as cold, if not a little cooler, than last year. So that would imply some drop in underlying industry demand. And I think that's kind of the story there. As we look quarter to quarter, we didn't have any real major project impacts on the gas side. We do have the continuing effects from the projects of last year, particularly Volve in the North Sea; but all of those effects -- again, it's really a demand story. Our projects are doing well in Volve and Starling last year. And I think you asked the question, this year we'll be starting up the [Tereance] project in the North Sea. So other than demand, I would say that things are going just about as we would've expected on European gas.

PAUL SANKEY: Yes, but I thought it was colder, right? And there was a problem with gas supply with Russia. It would imply that your volumes were up.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Well, but I think you have to look at what the underlying industrial demand was in Europe as probably the primary factor for the overall decline.

PAUL SANKEY: Yes, I understand.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: It was not a capacity issue.

PAUL SANKEY: Okay. Great. Thanks. And then product sales are down 5.6%, I think, is the number -- that is to say, oil product sales. You kind of referenced it a little bit in terms of Europe in the previous question. But is there anything weird or funky in there in terms of disposals, or is that just a pure economic downturn -- or a demand downturn? And as a follow-up to that same question, gasoline demand, you have it down 8%, I think, year-over-year, and distillate up 4.7%, which is totally opposite of the industry trend that we're seeing, for example, in the US weekly data. Could you talk a little bit about that? Thanks.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Sure. Let me start out with your first question. As we look at the decline in product sales, we did have -- we did see lower sales due to demand, of course, consistent with the general economic conditions. But we did have some lower sales due to divestments from the prior year. So it was a combination of both of those.

PAUL SANKEY: So was that 50-50 divestment demand?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Yes, in order of magnitude, that's probably about right.

PAUL SANKEY: Right. And then (inaudible)?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Excuse me?

PAUL SANKEY: The gasoline versus distillate? Yes.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: If we look at gasoline versus distillate, if you're looking in the the US, we did see quarter-on-quarter versus last year, (inaudible) gas was down and diesel was up. I don't think any of -- really any of what we're seeing is vastly different than what we're seeing in the industry.

PAUL SANKEY: Well, the US gasoline demand is down slightly and distillate is down like 10%. So for to you be down 8% in gasoline and up in distillate is vastly different.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Well, we certainly could be seeing some mix effects in there, Paul, but I don't think there is anything significant or major in that difference.

PAUL SANKEY: What do you mean by --

DAVID ROSENTHAL: That can I point to.

PAUL SANKEY: What do you mean by mix effect?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Just in what we're selling and how we're running our refineries and optimizing our crude slates and the products we're offering into the market. But again, I can't point to anything significant or an individual item that would make us different from the rest of the industry.

PAUL SANKEY: Okay. And finally for me, David, on CapEx again, the run rate for Q1 is way behind the $29 billion that you're talking about. Are you saying that we should -- I mean, I guess you are saying, quite frankly, that we should expect to ramp up to that kind of pace to meet the 29 billion for the -- ?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: That's a good question. We typically -- it's really a timing issue. Typically, if you look historically, first quarter capital expenditure are lower than they tend to be over the rest of the year. What I would say is CapEx is coming in about what we expected.

PAUL SANKEY: Right.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: And we're still on track.

PAUL SANKEY: Yes. I've got you. Thanks, David.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: And with that, that does conclude the question-and-answer session. I would you to turn the call to David Rosenthal for any additional or closing comments.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Thank you very much. All I would like to say here in closing is we had a very good quarter operationally. Our plans are progressing as we expected. And to conclude, I would just like to thank everybody for their time in joining us and the excellent questions that you asked. So again, thank you, very much, for participating in the conference call today

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
exxn : Exxon Mobil Corporation
   IN
i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1300003 : Crude Petroleum Extraction | iextra : Natural Gas/Oil Extraction
   NS
c11 : Plans/Strategy | c15 : Performance | ntra : Transcript | c151 : Earnings | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020090514e54u001h4
  


 HD
 Q4  2008  Exxon  Mobil Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
6,118 words
   PD
30 January 2009
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
Copyright 2009 by ASC Partners, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
OPERATOR: Good day, everyone. Welcome to the ExxonMobil corporation fourth quarter 2008 earnings conference call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time for opening remarks, I'd like to turn the call over to Vice President of Investor Relations and Secretary, David Rosenthal. Please go ahead, sir.

   TD
DAVID ROSENTHAL, VP OF IR AND SECRETARY, EXXONMOBIL CORPORATION: Thank you. Good morning and welcome to ExxonMobil's teleconference and webcast on our fourth quarter and full year 2008 financial and operating results. As you are aware from this morning's press release, ExxonMobil's fourth quarter earnings performance was strong. Our results reflect the strength of our business model during a period of global economic weakness and significant decline in commodity prices. The current environment has created challenging business conditions for many industries and has also affected millions of consumers worldwide. Despite these challenges, ExxonMobil remains well positioned for the future as a direct result of our financial strength, long-term focus, effective approach to risk management, and capital discipline.

Before we go further, I would like to draw your attention to our cautionary statement. Please note that estimates, plans, and expectations are forward-looking statements. Actual results, including resource recovery, volume growth, and project outcomes could differ materially due to factors I discuss and factors noted in our SEC filings. Please see factors affecting future results and the Form 8-K we furnished this morning which are available through the investor section of our website. Please also see the frequently used terms, the supplements to this morning's press release, and the 2007 financial and operating review on our website. This material defines key terms I will use today. Shows ExxonMobil's net interest in specific projects and includes our SEC Regulation G disclosure.

Now, I am pleased to turn your attention to the fourth quarter results. ExxonMobil's fourth quarter 2008 normalized earnings and net income were $7.8 billion, a reduction of $3.8 billion from the fourth quarter of 2007 versus the third quarter of 2008, normalized earnings were down $5.6 billion and net income decreased $7 billion. Both comparisons reflect the recent sharp reduction in commodity prices. Normalized earnings per share were $1.55, down $0.58 from a year ago. During the fourth quarter of 2008, ExxonMobil distributed a total of $10 billion to shareholders, including dividends of $2 billion and share purchases to reduce shares outstanding of $8 billion. ExxonMobil's full-year 2008 net income was $45.2 billion, up $4.6 billion from 2007 and a record for the corporation with strong results in each of our upstream, downstream, and chemical businesses. Normalized earnings for 2008 were also a record at $44.1 billion, up $3.5 billion dollars from 2007.

I would now like to share some of the milestones we've achieved since the last earnings call. In December, the Thunderhorse project in the Gulf of Mexico achieved a production rate of over 200,000 oil equivalent barrels per day. The project at peak is expected to produce 250,000 barrels per day of crude oil and 200 million cubic feet per day of natural gas. Including Thunderhorse, (inaudible) in Norway, Starling in the UK sector of the North Sea, Kizomba C Mondo and Saxi, Batuque in Angola, East Area Natural Gas Liquids in Nigeria, Journa B in Malaysia, and ACG Phase III in Azerbaijan, we completed eight major project start-ups during 2008.

Also, during the fourth quarter, we started up the offshore facilities for the Qatargas II Train 4 project in Qatar. We are completing commissioning activities onshore and we anticipate first LNG from the project during the first quarter 2009. The South Hook LNG terminal in the UK is also in the process of completing commissioning, and we expect initial LNG receipt and processing during the first quarter. When full operational capacity is reached, the terminal will have the capability to supply 2 billion cubic feet of natural gas per day to the UK market.

The fourth quarter also saw the completion of four new Q Max class LNG carriers, the first of their kind. The Q Max carriers are the largest LNG carriers in the world and can transport about 80% more cargo than a standard carrier. These vessels mark a step change in LNG shipping by lowering unit transportation costs while improving energy efficiency and reducing emissions. These ground breaking improvements were made possible by applying the latest LNG shipping technology developed by ExxonMobil and our partner, Qatar Petroleum.

In December, Sakhalin 1 project earned the excellence in project integration award from the committees and sponsoring societies of the international petroleum technology conference, or IPTC, held in Kuala Lumpur. The award is a testament to ExxonMobil's achievement in successfully executing the project in one of the most challenging arctic environments the in world, in a safe and environmentally responsible manner. These major projects demonstrate our ongoing commitment to bring new supplies to market and deliver value to our shareholders. In exploration, we added to our global portfolio of outstanding deepwater opportunities.

ExxonMobil entered into an agreement with Turkish national oil company, TPAO, to explore two large deepwater blocks in the Black Sea offshore Turkey. These blocks cover 7 million acres. We're awaiting final government approval of this agreement. ExxonMobil also signed an agreement with the Romanian oil and gas company, Petrom, to cooperate on a 3-D seismic acquisition and valuation program of the Black Sea Neptune Block covering approximately 2 million acres. This agreement helps strengthen our position in this new exploration play.

In Brazil, the deep water drilling rig, West Polaris, is currently drilling the Azula well in Block BM-S-22. Plans for additional drilling on the block are underway with a second well to follow upon completion of the first. ExxonMobil is pleased to be participating in this new subsalt play and will leverage all of our global experience and industry-leading technologies in the exploration program. We also continue to progress our high potential, unconventional natural gas opportunities around the world.

In the lower Saxony Basin in Germany, we have drilled three exploration wells in the promising shale gas play there and are preparing to commence testing operations. In the Mako trough in southeast Hungary, we are now drilling our second and third evaluation wells. Testing operations will begin once we have completed the first set of wells. In the Horn River Basin in northeastern British Columbia, Canada, we also commenced a four-well winter drilling and testing program on our extensive shell gas acreage during the fourth quarter.

Moving now to the downstream. During the quarter, we announced our plans to invest more than $1 billion if our Baton Rouge, Louisiana, Bay Town, Texas, and Antwerp Belgium refineries to increase the supply of cleaner burning diesel. These projects include the additional process units and modifications to existing facilities which will allow us to increase diesel production by 6 million gallons per day at these sites. This increase in production is equivalent to the diesel produced from about four average sized refineries.

Building on our commitment to technology, ExxonMobil announced in October that we are collaborating with [Pratt] and [Whitney] Rocketsyne to develop next generation gasification technology to convert coal, coke or biomass to synthesis gas. One of the potential uses would be to facilitate carbon capture and storage, reducing greenhouse gas emissions from power generation. The collaboration takes advantage of ExxonMobil's technology leadership in the energy sector and Pratt and Whitney Rocketdyne's experience in rocket engine development with the goal of making significant progress in gasification technology. Also in refining, we continued our activities to reduce raw material costs by managing our crude flexibility. This quarter, ExxonMobil ran 36 crudes that were new to individual refineries and four that were new to ExxonMobil.

Turning now to our chemical business. In October, ExxonMobil 1, the 2008 ICIS Chemical Business Award for best product innovation for our new battery separator film technology. During the fourth quarter, we also began construction on a new battery separator film manufacturing facility in Gumi, South Korea. The facility will have the capacity to produce over 30 million square meters of film per year with opportunity for future significant expansion. This ExxonMobil film technology is expected to help improve the efficiency and performance of lithium ion batteries and may lead to future applications in new, hybrid, and electric vehicles. This investment will significantly enhance our capability to supply customers in this fast-growing market.

Also during the fourth quarter, we signed heads of agreement with Saudi Basic Industries to progress detailed studies for a new elastomers project at our petrochemical joint ventures located in Kemya and Yanpet Saudi Arabia. The new facilities will supply a combined volume of over 400,000 tons per year of chemical products including synthetic rubber, thermal plastic specialty polymers and other products. This project is part of ExxonMobil's commitment to invest in advantaged chemical growth projects in the middle east and Asia Pacific to meet long-term demand.

Now turning to the business line results. Upstream earnings in the fourth quarter were $5.6 billion, down $2.6 billion from the fourth quarter of 2007. Upstream after tax unit earnings in the fourth quarter of 2008 were just under $15 per barrel. Lower realizations reduced earnings by $2.7 billion, driven by lower crude oil prices which were down $34 per barrel to just under $51 per barrel in the quarter. Natural gas realizations were up $1.46 per KCF from the fourth quarter 2007 reflecting higher prices in Europe and the middle east, partly offset by lower realizations in North America. Lower volumes reduced earnings by $240 million. Other effects increased earnings by $320 million due primarily to positive foreign exchange effects, higher gains from asset sales and lower taxes partly offset by increased operating expenses. In total, oil equivalent volumes decreased 3% for the fourth quarter of last year.

Entitlement volume effects, including price and spend impacts, and PSE net interest reductions reduced volumes by 47,000 barrels per day. Excluding the impact of lower entitlement volumes, quotas and divestments, production was down 1%, driven by lower European natural gas demand. Natural fuel decline was largely offset by major project ramp ups in west Africa, the North Sea and Kazakhstan. Liquids production decreased 45,000 barrels per day or 2% from the fourth quarter of last year. Excluding impacts related to lower entitlement volumes, quotas and divestments, production was up just over 1%.

Major project ramp ups in west Africa, Kazakhstan, and the North Sea, and lower maintenance activity more than offset natural fuel decline. Gas volumes decreased 565 million cubic feet per day from the fourth quarter of 2007. New project volumes from the North Sea, Qatar and Malaysia were more than offset by natural decline and lower demand in Europe.

Turning now to the sequential comparison versus the third quarter of 2008, upstream earnings decreased $3.7 billion primarily due to lower crude oil realizations which were down $60 per barrel in the quarter. Higher crude oil and natural gas volumes increased earnings by $850 million. Other effects benefited earnings by $350 million primarily from higher gains on asset sales. Liquids production increased 8%, reflecting the impact of new project volumes and the completion of maintenance programs. Natural gas production was up nearly 26% driven by seasonally higher demand in Europe. Oil equivalent volumes were up 14% from the third quarter.

Looking now at the full year results, 2008 upstream earnings, excluding special items, were a record $33.8 billion, an increase of $7.3 billion over 2007. Improved realizations increased earnings by $11.8 billion. Crude oil prices were up over $24 per barrel and natural gas realizations increased in all major producing regions. Lower crude oil and natural gas volumes reduced earnings by $3.7 billion. Other factors reduced earnings by $800 million with higher expenses including the impact of new project start-ups and negative tax effects partly offset by positive foreign exchange impacts and higher gains on asset sales.

Full year oil equivalent volumes were down 6% versus 2007. Liquids volumes were down 8% while natural gas volumes were down 3%. Excluding entitlement volume effects, the Venezuela expropriation and divestments, production was down just under 3%. About half of that reduction was due to higher maintenance activity and the effects of the hurricanes in the US with the balance reflecting natural fuel decline offset by new project volumes in west Africa, North Sea, Kazakhstan and Malaysia. For further detail on regional volumes, please refer to the press release and IR supplement.

Turning now to the downstream results. Earnings in the fourth quarter were $2.4 billion, up $150 million from the fourth quarter of 2007. Higher margins increased earnings by $890 million with stronger marketing and industry refining margins and positive price finalization effects partly offset by impacts due to temporary inventory changes. Volume and mix effects reduced earnings by $230 million, driven primarily by lower sales volumes. Other effects reduced earnings by $510 million, reflecting adverse foreign exchange impacts and higher operating expenses including hurricane-related repair costs. Sequentially, fourth quarter earnings decreased by $600 million.

Lower margins reduced earnings by $980 million driven by weaker refining margins including negative impacts due to temporary inventory changes partly offset by improved marketing margins. Volume and mix effects increased earnings by $40 million with margin improvement activities more than offsetting lower sales volumes. Other factors increased earnings by $340 million, including $190 million of positive LIFO effects and higher earnings from asset sales. Full year 2008 downstream earnings were $8.2 billion, down $1.4 billion from record earnings in 2007. Lower margins, reduced earnings by $910 million due to weaker refining margins which more than offset improved marketing margin. Volume and mix effects increased earnings by $560 million, primarily due to positive margin improvement activities. Other factors reduced earning business $1.1 billion reflecting higher operating expenses and negative foreign exchange effects.

Now turning to our chemical results. Fourth quarter chemical earnings were $155 million, down $960 million from the fourth quarter of 2007. Weaker margins reduced earnings by $270 million, reflecting lower realizations while volume effects reduced earnings by $360 million due to lower demand and the impact of the hurricanes in the US. Other effects reduced earnings by $330 million, including hurricane-related repair costs and negative foreign exchange effects partially offset by positive LIFO impacts. Sequentially, fourth quarter chemical earnings decreased by $930 million. Weaker margins reduced earnings by $240 million and lower volumes decreased earnings by $370 million, both reflecting impacts of the economic slowdown.

Other effects were negative $320 million with adverse foreign exchange and hurricane-related repair cost partly offset by positive LIFO effects. Full year 2008 chemical earnings were just under $3 billion, down $1.6 billion from record earnings in 2007. Weaker margins reduced earnings by $1.2 billion while lower volumes decreased earnings by $530 million.

Turning now to our corporate and financing segment. Corporate and financing expenses during the quarter were $383 million versus earnings of $77 million in the fourth quarter last year. The increase reflects the absence of positive tax effects and reduced interest income due to lower interest rates. Full year 2008 expenses were $830 million, up from $23 million in 2007 reflecting negative tax affects and lower interest income. The effective tax rate for the fourth quarter was 46% and for the full year 2008, the effective tax rate was 47%. At the end of the fourth quarter, our cash balance was $31 billion and debt was $9 billion. The corporation distributed $10 billion to shareholders in the fourth quarter through dividends and share purchases to reduce shares outstanding. Of that total, $8 billion was distributed to purchase shares in excess of dilution, reducing the number of shares outstanding by 2.2%.

For the full year 2008, we distributed a total of $40 billion to shareholders including $32 billion to purchase shares in excess of dilution which reduced shares outstanding by 7.5% further demonstrating our commitment to return cash to our shareholders. Share purchases to reduce shares outstanding are expected to be $7 billion in the first quarter of 2009. CapEx in the fourth quarter was $6.8 billion, an increase of 11% from fourth quarter 2007 and brings 2008 full-year CapEx to $26.1 billion. This is in line with our previous guidance and an increase of $5 billion from 2007. We continue to invest at record levels and robust projects to help meet global demand for crude oil, natural gas, and finished products.

In summary, these results reflect the strength of ExxonMobil's business model. The volatile business conditions in 2008 demonstrate that our long-term commitment to the integrity of our operations, disciplined investment approach and integrated business model continue to deliver superior results. Finally, I would like to mention two upcoming events. First, in mid-February we will be releasing our 2008 reserves performance data. Second, as many of you have already seen, our analyst meeting this year will take place on Thursday, March 5. This will include a live audio webcast beginning at 9:00 a.m. Eastern, 8:00 a.m. Central time. ExxonMobil's presenters will be lead by Chairman and CEO, Rex Tillerson. That concludes my prepared remarks. I would now be happy to take your questions.

OPERATOR: Thank you, Mr. Rosenthal. (Operator Instructions) We'll take our first question from [Christina Chin] with Barclays Capital.

CHRISTINA CHIN, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Good morning. I just had a quick question. Were there any asset sales gains in the quarter and can you break down [FX] in inventory gains?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Yes, good morning, Christina.

CHRISTINA CHIN: Good morning.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Yes, in the other bar we do have some asset sales. In total, fourth quarter of '08 reflects a positive earnings of impacts from Brazil, Spain and Portugate affiliate sales. And in the downstream, we had a -- in the downstream we had a number of minor asset sales as well. Christina, did you have another question?

CHRISTINA CHIN: Actually,it possible to give the actual number for that?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: No, we don't typically disclose the actual earnings effects from our asset sales.

CHRISTINA CHIN: Okay. And then were there any other (inaudible) in inventory effects?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: We did have some LIFO effects in the quarter in the downstream. They were fairly minor if you're looking of fourth quarter versus the fourth quarter '08 that is, versus the fourth quarter '07 it was just under $100 million of negative LIFO effects.

CHRISTINA CHIN: Okay. Thank you.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Thank you.

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions) We'll take our next question from (inaudible) [Kim] with Merrill Lynch.

UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: Hi. You know what, I think the question was answered. Thank you.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Oh, okay. Thank you.

OPERATOR: We'll take our next question from Neil McMahon with Sanford Bernstein.

NEIL MCMAHON, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: Hi. I was wondering if you could go through some of the new projects both in Brazil and in Hungary. I know it's sort of early days but you did go through or at least put through to the Brazilian authorities that you had discovered oil [block 22]. I was wondering if you could give us some more detail there and indeed the quality of the oil traces that were discovered.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Yes, of course. We are drilling in the ExxonMobil operated BM-S-22 block. We continue to drill ahead in that block. We did file a discovery notice on January 16 with the Brazilian authorities, but this is a notice just that we had encountered hydrocarbons, but that is the extent of the notice.

NEIL MCMAHON: Okay. So you're not going any further than that?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: No, at this time we really don't have any other comments to make on Brazil other than we are drilling ahead and progressing with that well. Neil, I think you also asked a question about Hungary.

NEIL MCMAHON: Yes.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: As you recall, last year, we did announce that our -- we had signed an agreement to begin phase work program in the Mako trough on 184,000 acres. The first two of those wells have spud last year and the second well spud in December. We continue to explore and work on that prospect.

NEIL MCMAHON: And just a very final one, maybe it's a quick one. In terms of the LNG coming to (inaudible), are you planning to take it from Qatar with some of the new boats or could it be any sort of boat just to start up the regas facility?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: No. We would be using our new Q Max ships for that purpose. And the Q Max and the Q [Flex] ships.

NEIL MCMAHON: Great. And a very final one to squeeze it in. In terms of your buyback, the run rate's dropping back to $7 billion which is still pretty impressive. Are we to presume that over the course of the year that you're going to manage the buyback rate as you said over time and still maintain your dividend growth policy?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Well, without providing any specific guidance on the buybacks as we've talked about in the past, they are flexible. They are the fly wheel for the use of our cash after funding our robust investment program and our dividends, but I really don't have any guidance to give today going forward other than what I stated. We do expect to spend $7 billion in the first quarter of this year.

NEIL MCMAHON: Great. Thank you.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Thank you.

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions) We'll go next to Ryan Todd with Deutsche Bank.

RYAN TODD, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Hi. Good morning.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Good morning, how are you?

RYAN TODD: Great, thanks. I have a quick question on if you can help me out at all on US refining. There's been -- or just refining numbers in general. Tremendous volatility, a bit surprised that you lost money in the US downstream and made so much money in their international downstream, especially given the performance of some of your peers throughout this week. Can you help us out at all to understand the refining dynamics that are going on and maybe a little bit of guidance for what we should expect going forward?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: I'd like to certainly talk about the fourth quarter. If we look at the fourth quarter '08 versus the fourth quarter '07, in total, the margin effect as I mentioned was a positive, about $890 million, and this was driven by stronger non-US margins with improvements both in nonUS refining and marketing margins. Overall, US margins were actually down. That was driven by weaker refining margins across the quarter. That was the primary driver if you look at the earnings, particularly in the US noted at the bottom of our chart, that change in earnings across the quarter again was driven by significantly lower refining margins.

RYAN TODD: Okay. So there's nothing from the quarter on quarter basis that in terms of just volatility in the numbers from rapid price movements and anything else that we should be aware of?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Yes. There are some effects included in there. As you know, changes in prices over time can have some price finalization impacts as well as impacts due to temporary changes in inventory across the year, but it is driven by overall, again, lower refining margins. Going forward, we really don't have any guidance going forward. A lot of factors are weighing on both demand and margins on downstream products and we'll be monitoring those as the next several months progress.

RYAN TODD: While we're talking refining, can I actually check in as well on any potential exposure that you might have to the strike down in the Gulf Coast or the potential strike down in the Gulf coast. Are you exposed?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: We have a total of four refineries that have United Steel Workers and International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers agreements, and in these four refineries they expire at the end of the month. These refineries are Beaumont, [Shalmet, Torrance] and Billings. And if we look at the status of the status of discussions, ExxonMobil is currently engaged in active negotiations with the union. I really wouldn't consider it appropriate to discuss any specifics of the proposal other than that negotiations are ongoing.

RYAN TODD: That's great. Thanks. If I could just sneak in one more. Neil asked you about the gas prospects over there in Hungary. You mentioned as well drilling in Germany. Would it be possible to -- from the wells you drilled so far to make any comparisons to gas assets that we see here in the US in terms of reserve flow rates or just how you view those assets versus gas assets here in the US?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: No. I wouldn't want to make any direct comparisons other than to say that although it's a little early, we do view the prospects that we have in Germany as potentially world class resources, but we're still evaluating and testing programs are underway, and we'll be testing the wells that we drill and determining the extent of that resource.

RYAN TODD: Great. Thanks. I appreciate it.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Thank you.

OPERATOR: We'll take our next question with Doug Leggate with Howard [Wheale].

DOUG LEGGATE, ANALYST, HOWARD WHEALE: Can you hear me?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Yes, good morning, Doug.

DOUG LEGGATE: How are you guys doing?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Welcome back.

DOUG LEGGATE: You guys may have a little bit of competition this morning. So, David, I've got a couple of things. I don't know if you broke out in your prepared remarks, but it looks like you recaptured quite a bit of volume from production sharing contracts in some of your PSC sensitive areas. Obviously oil prices have come down a little below the average for the quarter again, at least so far in Q1. Can you kind of just give us an update on your sensitivity to volume recapture expression from PSCs, and I've got an unrelated follow-up?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Okay. Sure. If we look at our volumes first fourth quarter '08 versus fourth quarter '07, we did still see about 47,000 barrels a day overall negative from PSC effects, most of that in net interest reductions and a little on the price and spend as we noted. I will say as we look at that sequential increase that we saw in volumes from the third quarter to the fourth quarter as you would expect with prices declining, we did get a little help on the price and spend side of that equation and really didn't see any net interest reductions, but in that sequential increase, we did see the impact of the lower prices on the price and spend component as you would have expected.

DOUG LEGGATE: So excluding the [cliff] effects of those entitlements, is the actual price of the cost recovery element the price sensitivity, if you like, is that largely washed through now or do you still have a little more that we're liable to see come back again in Q1?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: On an ongoing basis in any quarter on the price and spend impacts, that'll be determined on both the pricing at the time as well as our spend levels, but that, again that will be variable. I would expect the first quarter, given if the prices stay the same, would be about similar.

DOUG LEGGATE: Okay, great. My follow-up, David, this is really just an observation. I'm trying to understand the mechanics of what's going on with your costs because, like everyone, you've talked about how costs have been going up and so on. If you look at the average oil price in the quarter, realization aside for a second, and look at the same the last time we had an average oil price of that level was about Q1 '07. Your net income on a per barrel basis is almost exactly the same which kind of suggests that either there's been a mix change in improvement or that you've been able to recapture or [pull back] some of the cost increases. Can you just talk about what's going on on the cost side and how those earnings remained resilient over the last couple of years?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Let's talk about the cost side for just a minute. As you're well aware, the industry has seen significant upward pressure over the last couple of years in a fairly heated market for supplies and services, and we've not been immune to that, of course. We have been able to mitigate a great deal of that through our global procurement organization, our focus on operations excellence and efficiency in our operations, so while we've seen the impact of those increases, we don't think it's been as big as it has perhaps on others. I would also offer that one of the things we're seeing here is the benefit of some of our technology advantages across some of our processes, and the other piece of it would just simply be the mix of where the production is or isn't between any quarter. But I wouldn't have any other specific observation other than to say they're coming in about as we expected and reflect a lot of the things that we think give us competitive advantages in the industry.

DOUG LEGGATE: Would you be prepared to kind of give us some indication as to year-over-year what your costs look like on a percentage basis?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: I don't think I have the direct comparison on a percentage basis, Doug, but I would say if you look at just our earnings impact on the period to period earnings reqs, we do see some of the cost increases that we're talking about in there, but, again, in terms of significance in any particular quarter, not that significant. Obviously across a whole year you'd see a little bigger effect on a business our size. But I really don't have a percentage increase in particular for any segment of the business or the company in whole.

DOUG LEGGATE: Great. I'll leave it there, David. Thanks again.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Okay. Thanks you.

OPERATOR: We'll take our last question from William Ferrer with W.H. Reeves and Company.

WILLIAM FERRER, ANALYST, W.H. REEVES AND COMPANY: Good morning.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Good morning.

WILLIAM FERRER: Thank you. Last is not always least. Just a couple. Imperial announced their proceeding on [Pearl] Lake. Wondering if the Exxon Corps as opposed to Imperial will participate in the program and, if so, of equal proportion or how that might be. And I noticed in your fourth quarter exploration expense down from a year ago, and it leads to maybe two questions. Part A is were you just more successful or was it just a mix effect? Part B, you mentioned earlier about economic factors, and I'm wondering if the economic conditions perhaps in some oil-producing nations would open up more opportunity for Exxon to perhaps participate more aggressively than they might have been given an opportunity were prices much eyer and the economy's much stronger.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Thank you. Let me see if I can take those in order. Let's start out with [curl]. As you know, curl is a significant high quality oils sands resource and that project continues to be progressed. Detailed design and engineering is underway. Long lead time procurement items are being advanced. Site activities are underway and, again, the project is progressing and that is a project with ExxonMobil affiliates and IOL.

If we take a look, I believe the next question related exploration expense, it's down, but it's really timing of activities and expenditures. I don't think we draw any other conclusions related to the market. Overall, our activity is higher as reflective of the portfolio that we have and the activity that we have underway to work on that portfolio. But the absolute timing of the expenditures as they're booked really relates to the activity and nothing special there quarter to quarter.

If we look at the economic factors, I think in particular, you were talking about more opportunities, let me back up and actually take the economic factors that we're seeing in the business in two perspectives. One of which is the impact on prices of goods and services in our projects as we progress, our portfolio investment opportunities. As you're well aware, commodity prices have dropped significantly in a number of areas and people are starting to see a little downturn perhaps in some expenses and services. And we are, although it's a little early to tell the extent that those might provide us, we are actively pursuing through our global procurement and global project development organizations putting pressure on the system to really get the lag out and start bring those cost reductions to the bottom line as quickly as possible. The other aspect of the current economic environment, as you mentioned, is the impact it has on resource holders and producing nations. And without being anything particular or specific --

WILLIAM FERRER: Get real specific, will you?

DAVID ROSENTHAL: I can't get real specific, but I would tell you certainly we are open and always exploring and chasing new opportunities to add value and all of the economic positions. It's a little early to tell what impact that's going to have in various scenarios or draw any conclusions other than I can assure that you we are well positioned both from a financial strength standpoint and organization capability standpoint to take advantage of any opportunity that might present itself for whatever reason that might come along. So thanks for the question.

WILLIAM FERRER: Thank you.

OPERATOR: With that, we have no further questions left in the queue. I'll turn the call back over to Mr. Rosenthal for any additional or closing remarks.

DAVID ROSENTHAL: Thank you very much. I appreciate everybody joining the call and your questions. I would like to say in closing that despite the challenging economic environment, we remain confident that our long-term perspective, financial strength, and discipline investment approach will continue to deliver superior differentiated results and positions us well for the future. I thank you for your time and your questions this morning.

OPERATOR: Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Once again that does conclude today's conference. We thank you for your participation.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
exxn : Exxon Mobil Corporation
   IN
i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1300003 : Crude Petroleum Extraction | iextra : Natural Gas/Oil Extraction
   NS
c11 : Plans/Strategy | c15 : Performance | ntra : Transcript | c151 : Earnings | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
ASC Partners, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020090206e51u001p5
  


 HD
 Q2  2008  Exxon  Mobil Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
7,796 words
   PD
31 July 2008
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.     

   LP
OPERATOR: Welcome to the ExxonMobile Corporation second quarter 2008 earnings conference call. Today's conference is being recorded. Now at this time, I'd like to turn the conference over to Vice President of Investor Relations and Secretary, Henry Hubble. Mr. Hubble, please go ahead.

HENRY HUBBLE, VP, IR, CORP. SEC., EXXONMOBIL CORPORATION: Thank you. Good morning and welcome to ExxonMobile's teleconference and webcast on our second quarter 2008 financial and operating results. As you're aware from this mornings press release, ExxonMobile's net income in the second quarter was a record for the Corporation. Our integrated business portfolio and strong operational performance have allowed us to capture the benefits of the commodity price environment. The fundamentals of our business remain strong and we continue to invest at record levels to bring new supplies to the market.

   TD
Before we go further I'd like to draw your attention to our cautionary statement. Please note that estimates, plans and expectations are forward-looking statements. Actual results including resource recoveries, volume growth, and project outcomes could differ materially due to factors I discuss and factors noted in our SEC filings. Please see factors affecting future results and the Form 8-K we furnished this morning which are available through the investor section of our website. Police also see the frequently used terms, the supplements to this morning press release and the 2007 financial and operating review on our website. This material defines key terms that we use today, shows ExxonMobile's net interest in specific projects, and includes our SEC Regulation G disclosure.

Now I'm pleased to turn your attention to the second quarter results. ExxonMobile's second quarter 2008 net income was $11.7 billion, an increase of $1.4 billion from the second quarter 2007. Second quarter 2008 net income included a special charge of $290 million related to the Valdez litigation. Second quarter normalized earnings excluding the Valdez litigation charge were nearly $12 billion up $1.7 billion from the second quarter of 2007. Normalized earnings per share were $2.27 per share up 24% from a year ago reflecting strong earnings performance and the benefits of our share purchase program. During the second quarter of 2008, ExxonMobile distributed a total of $10.1 billion to shareholders, including dividends of $2.1 billion and share purchases to reduce shares outstanding of $8 billion.

Before I discuss specific business results I'd like to share some of the milestones we achieved since the last earnings call. In the second quarter we started up production from the East Area natural gas liquids two project, offshore Nigeria, three months ahead of schedule. The project will recover more than 275,000 -- 275 million barrels of natural gas liquids from several East Area fields which will help monetize gas resources and significantly reduce flaring. At peak, the project is expected to produce 50,000 barrels per day of natural gas liquids.

In the second quarter, production also started from the deepwater Gunashli platform in Azerbaijan. The star-up of the Gunashli complex completes the third phase of the development of the Azeri-Chirag-Gunashli, or ACG field in the Azerbaijan sector of the Caspian Sea. At peak, Phase III production is expected to reach almost 300,000 barrels per day. These start ups bring the total number of major project start ups to date in 2008 to five, demonstrating our committment to bring new supplies to market.

Also in the second quarter, ExxonMobile announced that the joint venture participants and the PNG State have formally signed and executed a gas agreement with a PNG/LNG project. The agreement establishes the physical regime and legal framework by which a project will be regulated. It sets the terms and mechanisms for state equity participation and allows the feed stage of the project to begin.

In exploration, we had several notable milestones. We began shooting seismic in the Porcupine basin off the Southwest Coast of Ireland to improve the understanding of the geology and hydrocarbon bearing potential of our significant exploration acreage holdings, totaling about 760,000 gross acres in the area. In Columbia, ExxonMobile was awarded a technical evaluation agreement for Block CPE-3 covering 6.4 million acres in the onshore Yanos heavy oil tender round. ExxonMobile has significant expertise and technological capabilities in heavy oil resources and we look forward to assisting in the exploration and possible development of this potential Resource.

ExxonMobile continues to lead the industry in our long term committment to technology development. In May, we announced a decision to invest over $100 million to build a commercial demonstration plant near La Barge, Wyoming, where ExxonMobile's control free zone technology to significantly reduce the cost of removing and sequestering carbon dioxide and hydrogen sulfide from natural gas. This CFZ technology will assist in the development of additional natural gas resources to meet the world's growing demand for energy and facilitate the application of carbon capture and storage to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.

Finally, on July 1, ExxonMobile announced the completion of the sale of its interest in the natural gas transport business in northern Germany. The positive after-tax earnings of this transaction of approximately $1.6 billion will be reported in the third quarter 2008 results. This transaction does not affect the exploration, production , and natural gas sales and storage activities conducted by ExxonMobile affiliates in Germany.

Moving now to the downstream. In refining, we continue to identify and implement projects which maximize the performance of existing facilities. At our Fawley refinery in the UK, we recently completed design changes on distillation units to improve yields of jet and diesel fuel as well as increased feed to our catalytic cracking unit. Additionally, at Baytown, Texas refinery, we started up new facilities to increase the capacity of our crude distillation and delayed Coking units. We also continue to utilize our proprietary molecule management technology to rapidly assess and optimally process feedstocks. During the second quarter, we ran 36 crudes that were new to individual refineries, six of which were new to ExxonMobile. Our selective investments and ongoing optimization activities allow us to maximize the capture of available margin and achieve advantage returns even at the bottom of the business cycle.

During the second quarter, our flagship engine oil, Mobile One was selected as the recommended service bill oil for the smart for two car in the US market. Additionally, Mobile One, turbo diesel truck 5W40 has been reformulated to meet EPA emission standards mandated for new, on highway diesel trucks. Our continued focus on proprietary research and formulation upgrades allows Mobile One to remain the world's leading synthetic motor oil brand.

In our chemical business, we started up facilities at our plant in Baytown, Texas, which will increase the bromobutyl rubber production capacity at the site by 60% allowing us to meet growing global demand for halobutyl rubber. ExxonMobile chemical is the largest supplier of halobutyl rubber to the global tire industry and we have expanded our capacity to produce this polymer by 80% in the last decade.

During the quarter, the American Chemistry Council granted ExxonMobile Chemical a total of 13 energy efficiency awards. This is the 11th consecutive year that ExxonMobile chemical has been recognized by the ACC for energy efficiency.

Now turning to the business line results. Upstream earnings in the second quarter were a record at $10 billion, up nearly $4.1 billion from the second quarter of 2007. We continue to capture the benefit of strong industry conditions this quarter with upstream after-tax unit earnings of $29 per barrel. Record crude oil and natural gas realizations increased earnings by $6.1 billion. Worldwide crude realizations were up $54.17 per barrel to $119.29 in the quarter. Natural gas realizations were up $3.78 per KCF from second quarter 2007, reflecting higher prices in all major producing regions. Lower crude oil and natural gas volumes decreased earnings by $1.7 billion. Other effects reduced earnings by $330 million, primarily due to increased operating expenses including the effect of new field start ups and higher taxes.

In total, oil equivalent volumes decreased about 8% from the second quarter of last year. Entitlement volume effects including price and spend impacts and PSE net interest reductions reduced volumes by 160,000 barrels per day. Excluding the impacts of lower entitlement volumes, the Venezuela expropriation and the Nigeria labor strike, production was down 2.5%. The reduction principally reflects the impact of higher maintenance activity, as major project ramp ups in the North Sea and West Africa and increased European natural gas demand largely offset natural field decline in mature areas.

Liquids production decreased about 275,000 barrels per day or 10% from the second quarter of last year. Excluding impacts related to the Valdez, Venezuela expropriation, Nigeria labor strike and lower entitlement volumes, production was down 2.5%. The reduction principally reflects the impact of higher maintenance activity as major project ramp ups in West Africa and North Sea largely offset natural field decline in mature areas. Gas volumes decreased approximately 285 million cubic feet per day from the second quarter of 2007. Natural field decline in mature areas increased maintenance activity and asset management effects were partly offset by higher demand due to colder weather in Europe and new project volumes. New project volumes were below expectations due to slower than anticipated volume ramp up in the North Sea.

Turning now to the sequential comparison. Versus the first quarter of 2008, upstream earnings increased $1.2 billion due to higher crude oil and natural gas realizations, partly offset by lower volumes, primarily due to seasonally lower natural gas demand in Europe. Liquids production decreased 3% due to scheduled maintenance activities in Canada, entitlement volume effects and the labor strike in Nigeria. Natural gas production was down 17% driven by seasonally lower demand in Europe. Oil equivalent volumes were down about 9% from the first quarter. For further data on regional volumes please refer to the press release and IR supplement.

Turning now to the downstream results. Earnings in the second quarter were $1.6 billion, down $1.8 billion from the second quarter of 2007. Lower margins reduced earnings by $1.9 billion driven by significantly lower refining margins. Volume and mix effects increased earnings by $230 million, as margin improvement activities more than offset lower sales volumes. Other effects reduced earnings by $180 million primarily due to higher operating expenses. Sequentially, second quarter earnings increased by $390 million, reflecting stronger refining margins, partially offset by negative price finalization effects. Other factors increased earnings by $40 million, including higher gains on asset sales, offset by higher operating expenses and foreign exchange effects.

Focusing now on our chemical results, second quarter chemical earnings of $687 million were $325 million lower than the second quarter of 2007. Lower margins reduced earnings by $480 million as higher feedstock costs more than offset increased product realizations. Other impacts increased earnings by $130 million reflecting positive foreign exchange and tax effects. Sequentially, second quarter chemical earnings decreased by $340 million, driven by lower margins as continued increases in feedstock costs more than offset higher realizations.

Turning now to the corporate and financing segment. Corporate and financing expenses excluding special items were $287 million in the second quarter of 2008, an increase of $188 million from the same period a year ago primarily driven by tax items and lower interest income. The effective tax rate for the second quarter was 49%. Our cash balance was $39 billion, and debt was $9.6 billion at the end of the second quarter. ExxonMobile made share purchases in excess of dilution of $8 billion during the second quarter, reducing the number of shares outstanding by 1.7% and again, demonstrating our committment to return cash to our shareholders. CapEx in the second quarter totaled nearly $7 billion, an increase of $1.9 billion or 38% from the second quarter of 2007. Spending increased across all business lines as we continue to invest actively in projects to meet global demand for crude oil, natural gas, and finished products.

In summary, this quarters results highlight the quality of our integrated business model and disciplined investment approach. In the upstream, our outstanding portfolio of producing assets is performing well, while volumes were impacted by the high price environment, operational performance was solid and we delivered record earnings in the quarter. In the downstream and chemical, ExxonMobile's disciplined integrated operations and continued focus on efficiency improvements and optimization allow us to deliver differentiated results in a period of lower industry margins. That concludes my prepared remarks and I'd now be happy to take your

OPERATOR: Thank you, Mr. Hubble. (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS) Our first will be from Michael LaMotte with JPMorgan.

MICHAEL LAMOTTE, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Thanks, good morning, Henry.

HENRY HUBBLE: Hi, Michael.

MICHAEL LAMOTTE: I was struck by the comments, number of comments actually in the press release about mature field declines, and I know that this is an area of focus for a lot of the NOCs today and increasingly a focus of your IOC peers. Can you maybe talk about things that you're doing differently to address decline, maybe acceleration of EOR activities, application of technology, those kinds of things?

HENRY HUBBLE: Yes, we have an active work program that basically is designed to offset declines and have a lot of technology and experience in enhanced oil recovery, but even with the application of those technologies and techniques and the active program that we have, we still see in mature areas declines. Nothing that frankly, is a surprise, where we were and what we were expecting in the period. As we've talked in the past when we look at our overall decline rates, we've estimated that in the 5 to 6% range and of course we're investing to offset that.

MICHAEL LAMOTTE: So no acceleration in that 5 to 6% range then? It's really just feeling the impact on the portfolio sides broadly?

HENRY HUBBLE: Yes. That's right. I mean if you look at our overall on average declines, they really have not changed. I mean, but obviously, in mature areas, it's somewhat higher and in other areas lower. And as we talked about before, the programs that we have and if you looked at the, just in general at the volumes projection that we had for this year, we were expecting at our what we shared at the analyst meeting to be bound down slightly versus 2007, and as we talked before, that's basically a reflection of the back end loading of the projects that we have in our pipeline. The biggest change that you see versus our outlook is associated with the price impacts from the price environment on entitlements.

MICHAEL LAMOTTE: Clearly.

HENRY HUBBLE: And that's what you're seeing flow through in the big changes relative to what we had in that outlook.

MICHAEL LAMOTTE: Okay.

HENRY HUBBLE: Obviously, we're capturing value as reflects that, we're capturing value early in those projects and the economics of them actually are better than originally anticipated but it has been one of the major effects.

MICHAEL LAMOTTE: Okay, that's helpful color. Thank you.

HENRY HUBBLE: All right

MICHAEL LAMOTTE: For my second question, maybe you could, I know you all have a very very large acreage position here in the lower 48 but it has been interesting to watch a couple of the European majors move more aggressively into the North American gas market through acquisition and JV. Can you maybe talk about sort of the -- Exxon's strategic views on North American unconventional gas and whether you are thinking beyond the Piceance at this point?

HENRY HUBBLE: Well, I mean as we talked last quarter, of course, Piceance is one of our major opportunities within the Lower 48 but we also have large acreage position in other areas as well. Arkoma, we also picked up acreage position in Canada, but, the Horn River Basin and then of course, because we look at this on a global basis, we are looking also at those opportunities around the globe, and you seen us pick up the acreage positions in Hungary as well as in Germany, both unconventional gas plays, large unconventional gas plays, so between -- we're quite active in this area and frankly, we're looking at a lot of these different opportunities, so.

MICHAEL LAMOTTE: How should we think about the rate of change on exploitation of that acreage second half '09 first half -- sorry, second half '08 first half '09 versus where we've been in the first half '08?

HENRY HUBBLE: Well, if you look at, most of these we're in the early days. The Piceance is producing as we've talked about 55 million cubic feet per day, but most of these other acreage positions that we have basically are going through evaluation phases and then as we look at the next phase of Piceance, we have another 200 that we'll bring on as part of that first phase. With an ultimate capability of getting up to nearly 1 billion.

MICHAEL LAMOTTE: So no real change in the timetable relative to what you laid out at the beginning of the year?

HENRY HUBBLE: No. These are long term projects. You'll see us, we're going to make sure we execute them very efficiently and that our costs, we focus a the lot of attention on getting on this cost of development right, and so the opportunities that you see us going after are really focused on areas where we can get significant acreage positions and then we're going to approach it with a very disciplined development approach to maintain a low cost of development. Or advantage cost of development.

MICHAEL LAMOTTE: Thanks, Henry.

HENRY HUBBLE: Yes.

OPERATOR: We'll next go to Paul Sankey with Deutsche Bank.

PAUL SANKEY, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Yes, hi, Henry for my first question if I could go back to the volumes, part high level part specific. On the high level, you at the analyst meeting outlined as you said a slight fall in '08 followed by a slight rise in '09.

HENRY HUBBLE: Yes.

PAUL SANKEY: Now that we've had something of a sharp fall in '08, do we work off this lower base assuming flat oil prices from here or do we expect to see fairly sharp comeback over the course of 2009 and the follow-up to that naturally becomes could you update us on the specific projects and when you expect them to start up now for the second half and first half of '09?

HENRY HUBBLE: Yes.

PAUL SANKEY: Thanks.

HENRY HUBBLE: If you look at, we provided in the supplement material a bridge on the volumes recognizing this was going to be an area and try to put in some of the notable effects versus where we were last year and today, and if you look at that, we talked already about the 160 KBD associated with the PSE or entitlement effects. 95 of that is net interest reductions, and those net interest reductions are basically traunch changes that are permanent, so they will roll through and each year when we update in our March analyst meeting we're basically reflecting updates to that as well as of course updates for the various project outlooks but you ought think about that as rolling forward. And then as you look at the price spend effects, that is basically a reflection of crude price and spend levels and if crude is $100 and you spend $100 you get one barrel and if of it drops to $50 you'll get two so it really comes back to your guess and my guess at what's the future price of oil is going to be but if you're looking at -- you assume the same kind of prices that we've had, these effects could be at the same level going forward, if the price maintains in that same level.

And then if you look at the other effects in the bridge, relative to last quarter, there was 29 a day associated with Venezuela, there's 29 of Nigerian strike that was highlighted in there. Those are, the Nigerian piece is basically a one-time effect and then the balance, this 104 or 2.5% that we talk about ex those effects is if you look through it, it's largely maintenance. If you look at net interest, I mean the decline rates, no surprises there, the projects that we have coming on and the growth in European demand basically, they offset each other and so the impact that you're left with is maintenance primarily maintenance.

PAUL SANKEY: That's great Henry, thanks. The visibility is really very helpful indeed. If I could just follow-up on two brief things, first how much are you down in Nigeria right now and secondly could you give us an idea of the sensitivity of that PSE price spend element, let's say for a dollar change how much should we expect that price spend effect to be? Thanks.

HENRY HUBBLE: Yes, I don't really have a rule of thumb to give you. Because these things are, you hit these different traunches, they have a whole series of different contracts, different traunches, the price spend effect you can kind of look at as we talked about in terms of impacts, but basically if you see prices, crude prices maintaining at these same kind of levels we would see similar kinds of impacts going forward, and slightly higher, if we've maintained at these price levels into the second half. And if of you look at what the Nigerian strike impact and the maintenance that we had that is above the original plans here, I mean even excluding the price effects, we're slightly behind our outlook and it's going to be a challenge to catch that up during the year, so that's maybe about as much as I can give you going forward in terms and we'll be updating that, obviously again in March when we come back to you through the Analyst meeting.

PAUL SANKEY: Okay, Henry thanks a lot. Could I just ask a follow-up and then I'll call out my second question on the downstream. It's notable, you don't separate it out. You've got the regional demand and then you've got the byproduct demand but it's notable that gasoline demand in your numbers is down 9% and distillate up 5%.

HENRY HUBBLE: Yes.

PAUL SANKEY: Is there any additional noise in that or is that just a mega trend and I'll leave it there.

HENRY HUBBLE: Yes, what you're seeing in the gasoline, I mean, it's basically reflecting, there's some divestments in that that's a significant piece of it as we've been going through this process, but the other piece there is we did have higher conversion unit planned maintenance that largely impact gasoline production and so affects that. We are seeing though, some demand losses and if you look at the US, we would say we're down 1%, 1.5%, it's hard to actually determine in a short period of time what that demand is and you'll see those numbers revised over time but we would say we're seeing something in that kind of range, 1 to 2%.

PAUL SANKEY: So is that gasoline or oil products?

HENRY HUBBLE: Gasoline -- well, actually, you kind of see it roll on through and I would say it's in the total demand but gasoline is a piece of that, the bigger piece of that in the US. And the distillates, we've seen growth year on year, and so there's actually been from a production standpoint, a shift to try and maximize the distillate production, diesel production, and so you see us emphasizing that. That's why you see some of the growth there. The Mo Gas has been well supplied, inventories, as you know, are pretty high and so that's been the push in the demand there.

PAUL SANKEY: Thanks, Henry, I'll let someone else have a go.

HENRY HUBBLE: Very good.

OPERATOR: Our next question is from [Eric Melkey] with Merrill Lynch.

ERIC MELKEY, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: Yes, hi, in the upstream I think we're getting better at forecasting volumes with the production more or less as we expected but the contribution coming through particularly in the international E&P was lower than what we had by volumes and realized prices being in line. It's obvious that high tax is part of the answer, but it also seems that cost varied significantly during the quarter. Can you help us understand what took place with cost and taxes and how we should think about that going forward? Were there any new tax thresholds that you hit because of the high oil price in the quarter, any significant exploration expense, so forth?

HENRY HUBBLE: Yes, I mean, in the bridge if you look at the bridge from second quarter '08 to last year, I mean, we have this 330 impact in other, that's basically OpEx and tax effects were the two big components there. It's always made up of a number of different factors that are offset but those were the two big that contributed to the increase. If you look at that, about a third of that was taxes. Some of that, the biggest chunk of that was the Alaska tax effects, so that's what's going on there. Then on the OpEx side, we continue to see inflationary effects in our OpEx. We also are seeing higher non-cash kinds of costs associated with new project start ups and the capital investment that we're making, so that is reflecting through, and but we have a very active program to be able to offset a lot of the escalation that we see. We're just not able in this environment to offset all of it.

ERIC MELKEY: Okay, thanks. And I think Paul asked this before, I'm not sure you gave a complete answer to it on the outlook for production in the second half and some of the key projects.

HENRY HUBBLE: Oh, yes, I'm sorry.

ERIC MELKEY: Particularly on Qatar and and so forth.

HENRY HUBBLE: Yes, if you look, in our outlook for the year, we had 12 major projects that we were planning on getting up during the year. Five of those have started up as I mentioned in the call. We still have the Malaysia, [Jerne B, the Casamba C, Saxi Bitut], those are, we should be here announcing some things shortly on those, Thunder Horse, I think you know the status of it. It's up initial oil and that will be ramping that up as we go through the year, rest of the year, and then Qatar gas, train two, the first of the 7.8 train Qatar gas two train four, the first of the 7.8 million ton per annum trains, that that will be starting up and basically supplying into the demand for the winter of '08, so we'll be giving that up in the fourth quarter. Ross Gas Train 6, basically we'll be starting the commissioning of that at the end of the year, and it will start contributing in the first quarter. So that's the big production start-ups and then of course we also have the terminals that are moving along on schedule.

ERIC MELKEY: And is there a lot of pick up from the second quarter particularly from places like Nigeria and so forth where you lost some volume?

HENRY HUBBLE: Yes, well, of course we had the strike there and then we have had maintenance, most of that maintenance we talked a little bit about it, previously but in, as in the JV area, it's about a little over 50 a day impact as we're going through that now. Some of that will continue into the third quarter. Basically, we have an ongoing and active maintenance program and we're upgrading facilities associated with that but we will have in addition of course the absence of the strike but still some ramp up associated with the wells that are coming back on.

ERIC MELKEY: Thanks, Henry.

HENRY HUBBLE: And then the only other thing I might mention is of course we mentioned the first two of those trains, we do have the last two of the 7.8 million ton per annum trains will also be starting up in 2009.

ERIC MELKEY: That's great. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Our next question is from Neil McMahon with Sanford Bernstein.

NEIL MCMAHON, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: Hi, Henry.

HENRY HUBBLE: Hi.

NEIL MCMAHON: Just a few questions.

HENRY HUBBLE: Sure.

NEIL MCMAHON: First of all, I'm scratching my head to try and think of a time before in the past when second quarter US refining and marketing was done on first quarter, as you reported. Maybe you could just give us a bit more detail on that, and maybe--?

HENRY HUBBLE: Yes. Well, one of the things that you see, whenever you see a real rapid run up in crude prices like we saw, there's always some compression that goes on, and that generally will have a negative impact in the margins that we're able to capture. One of the other impacts that we also see as more of an accounting one is on price finalization, and if you look at the price finalization impact in the first quarter, I mean in the second quarter here, in total it was about $300 million. The vast majority of it in the US, so that was a larger impact that I think may not have been picked up.

NEIL MCMAHON: And just generally on demand in the US and worldwide, normally, it's something that you're not as exposed to given the diversified nature of the business in different product lines. Has that changed much this time around from last quarter?

HENRY HUBBLE: We do a, when we look at our own demands, we're pretty much a surrogate for the industry global demand picture, and when we look at the global demand, in the past, if you look at the 10 year average growth rate for petroleum liquids demand, it's been about 1.4 million barrels a day per year growth. We and others as we've been looking at this and the impact of the economic activity, as well as prices on the demand, we're now projecting that somewhere around 0.7 million barrel s a day, so about half, still growing but about half the rate that we would have seen in the past, and if we look around to where that's happening, the bulk of it is in the developing parts of the world, Middle East, Asia Pac, and we actually see demand declining in the US and in the OECD areas during this year.

NEIL MCMAHON: Okay, just as a quick second question. Something that's been quite noticeable, especially looking at your year-to-date share price performances. Is really the lack of impact of the buyback program on your share price. I know it's something that you definitely have a strategy to stick with. When do you think the buybacks will catch up with a liquidity in the market? Have you done any work to suggest that if you take enough shares, it will actually start to impact liquidity for your stock and therefore potentially see a price rise?

HENRY HUBBLE: Yes, if you look at, I mean the way we think about the buyback, it's a distribution, and we view it as nothing more than a distribution, so we don't time it based on price. We don't -- we buy ratably, and we buy continuously in the market, and so we view it just as a distribution, so we're not really focusing as an investment or timing it based on price, but if you look at from a liquidity standpoint, it's such a small percent of the volume overall and the shares outstanding for our Company, we're over 5 billion shares, a lot of trading on a daily basis, we're not concerned about it from a liquidity standpoint.

NEIL MCMAHON: I was just thinking more from the fact that given your very large retail shareholder base, and therefore -- and on top of that adding in lots of family funds and things that have owned standard oil stock maybe way way back that at some point the actual overall share count may not fully reflect the liquidity of what effectively in the market.

HENRY HUBBLE: Yes. I mean, we do have as you point out a strong retail share holding, but I wouldn't, they participate in the market like the institutions and we see that, so I wouldn't consider that as basically effective reduction of shares outstanding. They're loyal, we do have some long term shareholders, but it's not a big impact in the liquidity end of the equation.

NEIL MCMAHON: Great. Thanks, Henry.

HENRY HUBBLE: Yes.

OPERATOR: Our next will be from Mark Gilman with Benchmark Capital.

MARK GILMAN, ANALYST, BENCHMARK CAPITAL: Hi, Henry how are you?

HENRY HUBBLE: Good, Mark.

MARK GILMAN: Thanks very much for what you call the production bridge. Very helpful. If I could just follow-up on that for a sec?

HENRY HUBBLE: Yes.

MARK GILMAN: The net interest reductions indicated on the chart?

HENRY HUBBLE: Yes.

MARK GILMAN: A little smaller than frankly what I would have thought it was. Could you identify where those were hit and potentially talk a little bit about where you anticipate encountering similar effects in a price environment let's say equal to where we are today?

HENRY HUBBLE: Well, I can tell you if you look at that 95 of net interest hit, about half of that is in Africa and then there's a little less than half actually in the Russian Caspian area, and that's basically associated with Azerbaijan and those are the two big areas and the piece in Africa, as we've talked before, niche project is ring fenced so in the Africa project, so you're seeing different traunches hitting at different points for different projects, and to be honest with you, I can't give you a feel for, we've moved through, if you look at some of our overall projects, we've moved through a lot of those traunches but there's still some out there. And just to put it into some perspective I think, there's about 20% of our overall production that has these, has the potential for these kinds of impacts in the PSE kind of arrangements.

MARK GILMAN: 20% of your PSE production or your global production?

HENRY HUBBLE: No, no, 20% of the total production has PSE-type contracts.

MARK GILMAN: Well, not all of those have net interest reduction elements to it do they?

HENRY HUBBLE: No, no, absolutely. There are a lot of different terms for those. They have a lot of different, some of them don't have much price effect at all in them. Right, you're right.

MARK GILMAN: Just for a second question, tax oriented. The effective tax rate for the quarter for the Corporation was essentially equal to the first quarter.

HENRY HUBBLE: Yes.

MARK GILMAN: Yet from an earnings mix standpoint, taking into consideration the higher price environment, and also some of the commentary as you went through your quarterly review regarding the impact of tax effects particularly in the corporate segment I would have expected it to be a higher effective rate. Was there an offset somewhere?

HENRY HUBBLE: No, actually, there aren't, it's a pretty clean number that you're looking at there and so there weren't a lot of, in fact, there are very little in the way of one-time effects that are in this, so it just basically, you do see a reflection on the mix of earnings. We have -- and a big piece of that is mix of earnings between upstream and downstream chemicals as well as of course then in the mix of our upstream where the upstream earnings are occurring, so it just basically, it's a pretty clean number but there's nothing really major in there that's a factor as a one-time effect.

MARK GILMAN: Okay, Henry thanks a lot.

HENRY HUBBLE: Yes, no problem.

OPERATOR: Our next question is from Jason Gammel with [MaGuire].

JASON GAMMEL, ANALYST, MAGUIRE: Thank you, hi, Henry.

HENRY HUBBLE: Hi, Jason, how are you?

JASON GAMMEL: Good thanks. You've done a pretty good job. I'm pretty far down on my question list here. Maybe you could talk a little bit about chemical margins. This is one of the lower quarters in quite some time in terms of chemical earnings and are you seeing any changes to margin activity right now or does it look like the next quarter or two is going to be fairly similar?

HENRY HUBBLE: Well, I mean, if you look at margins and they've been under pressure just like we see in the refining side of the business, I mean as you have these very rapid run ups in feed stock costs and so on, that's rolled through, but you also, I mean, we have seen this in the past too where what we almost call mini cycles in the business where people see prices running up and they back off on purchases so you'll see swings in sales associated with that. We continue, if you look at long term in this business, as we've talked many times, we see the chemical business as a growing business. It grows a couple percent above GDP, it's had a long term profile. We don't see that really changing. There are in the current environment though an impact associated with this very rapid run up in prices and we're seeing some of that really reflecting through in specific projects, I mean in product areas,aeromatics in particularly was hit relative to last quarter, but overall it's robust given the environment. If you look at the benefits we have in this area, we feel pretty good about here that chemical business has been performing.

JASON GAMMEL: Okay thanks and that's helpful. If I could ask a second one. On the PNG/LNG project now that you have the fiscal regime and regulatory regime pretty much firmed up with the governments, are there any other hurdles to reaching final investment decision or do you think that is something that could occur fairly quickly?

HENRY HUBBLE: Well, we're working through feed at this point so there's always things you learn in that process, so we'll be taking it through that stage and basically of course we have to get the necessary permits and licenses and then of course also sales agreements that we're working, but I would say overall, we feel very good about the project and moving it ahead.

JASON GAMMEL: Okay that's terrific. Thanks a lot Henry.

OPERATOR: Next question is from Paul Cheng with Lehman Brothers.

PAUL CHENG, ANALYST, LEHMAN BROTHERS: Hi, good morning.

HENRY HUBBLE: Hi, Paul how are you?

PAUL CHENG: Very good. Henry, you talk about the PSE impact on production but you've got to have a corresponding impact on your unit expense rate, unit cost, as well as the tax rate. Can you quantify on those two items?

HENRY HUBBLE: Well, I mean--?

PAUL CHENG: Because when you string your production but you still have to show the full cost or your unit costs go up, wondering is there any number that you you can share that how big is the impact?

HENRY HUBBLE: No, I mean, if you look at, probably the best way to look at that though is if you look at our net income per barrel, and we have developed and most of the guys have correlation looking back at capture rate relative to crude price, you'll see, I mean, we're pretty much on that correlation. We're capturing, so there's not a big shift there. That wasn't a big factor. I mean there's some as you see just more moving overseas or higher percentage overseas, but it really hasn't been a big shift for us. And we recover those costs in the PSE kinds of projects and of course we recover those costs directly through barrels that we're incurring.

PAUL CHENG: And Henry, you mentioned earlier that Alaska, the tax increase from last year obviously that the rising oil prices are significant. How big is the incremental tax in Alaska hitting you sequentially from first to second quarter?

HENRY HUBBLE: First to second?

PAUL CHENG: Yes.

HENRY HUBBLE: I don't think there was, I don't know. I don't have a figure on that. If you look that, I know that's not your question, if you look at it from the second quarter year on year, it was about 100 million, but I don't know what it is sequentially. It wasn't a big factor for sure.

PAUL CHENG: It shouldn't or you should be?

HENRY HUBBLE: It is not.

PAUL CHENG: It is not.

HENRY HUBBLE: No?

PAUL CHENG: No. Oil price wide quite substantially in the second quarter.

HENRY HUBBLE: I mean, there's some incremental effects but it's not a major impact and not in the reconciliation here.

PAUL CHENG: I see. Can I just ask a quick one. Do you have any number in terms of the inventory gain or loss in the quarter, any meaningful number, any trading, commercial trading or hedging losses?

HENRY HUBBLE: We don't have. We really just don't have anything there. I mean, we basically --our trading is basically for physical movements so we're not doing a lot, in fact we do very very very little derivatives kinds of trading.

PAUL CHENG: Okay. How about FX, any impact this quarter?

HENRY HUBBLE: 4X, yes, it's -- if you look across the total business, it was like $50 million or something in that range, the upstream, negative, downstream had about 100 negative, upstream about 25 negative, chemicals was actually positive about 80 something.

PAUL CHENG: Is that a deal for deal or sequentially, this number?

HENRY HUBBLE: That's year-over-year.

PAUL CHENG: Do you have a sequential number?

HENRY HUBBLE: Yes. And there, it's about 60 for the total Corporation, about 100 positive for upstream, about 200 negative for downstream and those were the big effects.

PAUL CHENG: Very good, thank you.

HENRY HUBBLE: Yes.

OPERATOR: (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS) We'll go to Robert Kessler with Simmons & Company.

ROBERT KESSLER, ANALYST, SIMMONS & COMPANY: Hi, Henry.

HENRY HUBBLE: Hi, Robert, how are you?

ROBERT KESSLER: Not bad. A couple quick project updates if I might. Can I ask what current production is at deepwater Gunashli, noting a start up in the quarter? And then secondly just for an update on Saukland, where is production today in that development?

HENRY HUBBLE: Yes. Let's see if I have, I don't have something right at my fingertips here. It would be about 80 on Gunashli.

ROBERT KESSLER: Okay.

HENRY HUBBLE: That's ACG total. Yes, that's ACG total. Our net, that's our--.

ROBERT KESSLER: That's your net in ACG total?

HENRY HUBBLE: I'm sorry, that's gross. That's gross. And we have an 8% interest in that.

ROBERT KESSLER: That's gross for Gunashli then, right?

HENRY HUBBLE: Yes, and then Sauk is about 200.

ROBERT KESSLER: About 200 today and where would you expect kind of managed decline on Saukland going forward? What kind of rate per year?

HENRY HUBBLE: It's, it's not, I mean we don't really have a number that I have available on a go forward field by field, we don't typically get into that, but we do, we're working of course, the next phase is, it's not one that's falling off cliffs here.

ROBERT KESSLER: Okay. Fair enough. Thanks Henry.

HENRY HUBBLE: Yes.

OPERATOR: With that there are no further questions. I'd like to turn the conference back for any additional or closing comments.

HENRY HUBBLE: I'd just like to thank everybody for participating and for the questions this morning.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
exxn : Exxon Mobil Corporation
   IN
i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1300003 : Crude Petroleum Extraction | iextra : Natural Gas/Oil Extraction
   NS
c11 : Plans/Strategy | c15 : Performance | ntra : Transcript | c151 : Earnings | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
Voxant, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020080807e47v001t8
  


 HD
 Q1  2008  Exxon  Mobil Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
9,172 words
   PD
1 May 2008
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.     

   LP
OPERATOR: Good day, everyone and welcome to this ExxonMobil Corporation first quarter 2008 earnings conference call. Today's call is being recorded.

At this time, for opening remarks I would like to turn the call over to the Vice President of Investor Relations and Secretary Mr. Henry Hubble. Please go ahead, sir.

   TD
HENRY HUBBLE, VP - IR - SCERETARY, EXXONMOBIL CORPORATION: Thank you. Good morning and welcome to ExxonMobil's teleconference and webcast on our first quarter 2008 financial and operating results. As you're aware from this morning's press release ExxonMobil continues to deliver strong earnings performance in an environment of high commodity prices ExxonMobil's outstanding portfolio of integrated businesses performed well allowing us to deliver record first quarter results.

Before we go further, would I like to draw your attention to our cautionary statement. Please note that estimates, plans and expectations are forward-looking statements. Actual results, including resource recoveries, volume growth and project outcomes could differ materially to factors I discuss and factors noted in our SEC filings. Please see factors affecting future results and the Form 8K we furnished this morning which are available through the Investors' section of our website. Please also see the frequently used terms. The supplements to this morning's press release. And the 2007 financial and operating review on our website. This material defines key terms I will use today, shows ExxonMobil's net interest in specific projects and includes our SEC Regulation G disclosure. Now I'm pleased to turn your attention to our first quarter results. ExxonMobil's first quarter 2008 normalized earnings and net income were were $10.9 billion, an increase of $1.6 billion from the first quarter of 2007. Earnings per share were $2.03, up 25% from a year ago. Driven by the strong earnings and also the continuing benefits of our share purchase program. In the first quarter of 2008, we increased our quarterly share purchases to reduce shares outstanding from $7 billion to $8 billion. Demonstrating our commitment to return cash to our shareholders.

Before I discuss specific business line results, I'd like to share some of the milestones we achieved since the last earnings call. During the first quarter, start-up was achieved at the the Volva field located 120 miles off the coast of Norway in the southern section of the Norwegian Continental Shelf. At its peek, this development is expected to produce 50,000 barrels of oil and 30 million cubic feet of natural gas per day. Further demonstrated the quality of our North Sea portfolio, in the first quarter we also announced the start-up of production from the Starling field in the UK sector of the North Sea. At peak production, the field is expected to deliver 110 million cubic feet of natural gas per day to the UK market.

Following the January start up of the ExxonMobil operated Mondo field in the Kizomba C development offshore Angola, Starling and Volva are the second and third major upstream start ups for ExxonMobil this year. In total we anticipate 12 major upstream project start-ups in 2008, including the first two, 7.8 million-ton per annum LNG trains in Qatar in the second half of the year. Also in the first quarter ExxonMobil signed the main principles agreement for a new 25-year production sharing contract with the Malaysian National Oil Company, PETRONAS. Through the new PSC we expect to invest in significant enhanced oil recovery and conventional oil development activities in Malaysia utilizing our proprietary technologies and industry leading project execution capabilities. ExxonMobil's advantage technologies continue to deliver competitive differentiation and maximize the profitability of our upstream producing assets. In the first quarter, we broke our own world record for extended reach drilling total depth with the completion of the Z-12 well at our Solan One project in Russia. The well was drilled from land and reached its target depth more than seven miles offshore. Through the implementation of ExxonMobil leading edge technologies we've improved drilling performance at Solan by over 50% since the project began.

Also in the first quarter we added to our global portfolio of outstanding deepwater exploration opportunities. In the recent Gulf of Mexico lease sale we were the high bidder for 15 blocks totaling 85,000 acres. Additionally we were awarded 13 full and partial blocks totaling 760,000 gross acres in the porcupine basin offshore Ireland. ExxonMobil continues to make significant progress in the capture of high potential, unconventional exploration opportunities around the globe.

In April we announced two new agreements related to unconventional gas and liquids opportunities in Hungary. The first is a joint exploration program covering a 387,000 gross acres in the [Maco Trough] area of southeast Hungary. The second is a production and development agreement covering a further 185,000 gross acres on an adjacent block. Our work programs in Hungary including wells, production tests and reservoir evaluation studies are getting underway this year. ExxonMobil, along with majority owned affiliate Imperial Oil limited, further enhanced our portfolio of unconventional exploration opportunities with the recently announced capture of about 115,000 acres in the Horn River Basin in the northeastern British Columbia, Canada. Plans to evaluate the shale gas play potential includes seismic acquisition and exploration drilling in late 2000 and beyond. ExxonMobil brings industry leading technical expertise to all of these opportunities, including our fast-drill process and our tight gas development capability. ExxonMobil continues to pursue and capture a wide variety of opportunities to develop hydrocarbon resources to help meet growing energy demand.

Now moving to the downstream. In refining, we continue to improve our -- the profitability of our operations through crude diversification. In the first quarter we ran 35 crudes new to individual refineries. Nine of which were new to ExxonMobil. We also continued to identify and implement projects to improve performance at our refineries by applying new technologies with further enhanced operations reliability and margin capture. In our lubricants and specialties business, we launched the Mobil One Advanced Fuel Economy synthetic motor oils in the U.S. In addition to providing outstanding engine protection, these advanced products can improve fuel efficiency in modern gasoline engines by up to 2% compared to traditional engine oils. In our chemical segment, ExxonMobil launched a new metal polyethylene platform called enable MPE in the first quarter. This new product generates films with exceptional performance, and also delivers energy savings in the production process. Our commitment to technology leadership and innovation continues to deliver breakthrough chemical products to meet the needs of our customers. During the quarter, ExxonMobil's polyethylene plant in Baton Rouge was award the distinguish safety award from the National Petro Chemical and Refiners Association for an unprecedented sixth consecutive year. This honor is a reflection of our fundamental and ongoing commitment to safety in all aspects of our operations.

Now turning to the business line results, upstream earnings in the first quarter were a record at $8.8 billion, up $2.7 billion from the first quarter of 2007. We continue to capture the benefit of strong industry conditions this quarter. With upstream after tax unit earnings of just over $23 per barrel. Record crude oil and natural gas realizations increased earnings by $4.4 billion. Worldwide crude oil realizations were up $38.50 per barrel, and natural gas realizations were up up $2.43 per KCF from the first quarter 2007. Volume and mix effects reduced earnings as increase natural gas volumes were more than offset by lower crude oil volumes. Other effects reduced earnings by $900 million. Just over a third of that reduction was due to higher taxes. About 250 million reflects the impact of increased operating expenses, including the effect of new field startups and increased exploration activity. And the balance was primarily lower earnings from asset sales.

As anticipated in our outlook for 2008, volumes were lower in the first quarter than a year ago. Oil equivalent volumes decreased about 5.5% from the first quarter of last year. Excluding the Venezuela expropriation, divestments, quotas and price and spend impacts, volumes were down 3%. The decrease was primarily due to PSC net interest reductions of approximately 80,000 barrels per day and the impact of maintenance activities in West Africa. Major project ramp-ups in the North Sea and West Africa, and increased European natural gas demand offset field decline in mature areas. Our 2008 volume profile which we shared at our recent March analysts meeting is back-end loaded due to the timing of major field start-ups, including the two large LNG trains in Qatar, ten SGP both facilities in Kazakhstan and Thunder Horse in the Gulf of Mexico in the third and fourth quarters of this year. Liquids production decreased about 270,000 barrels per day or 10% from the first quarter of last year. Excluding the Venezuela ex-propriation, divestments, quotas, and price and spend impacts on volumes production was down 6%. Major project ramp-ups in West Africa and the North Sea were more than offset by natural field decline in mature areas, PSC net interest reductions and the impact of maintenance activities in West Africa. Gas volumes increased approximately 130 million cubic feet per day from the first quarter of 2007. New project volumes and higher demand due to colder weather in Europe were partly offset by natural field decline in mature areas.

Turning now to the sequential comparison, versus the fourth quarter of 2007 upstream earnings increased 580 million-dollars due to higher crude oil and natural gas realizations, partly offset by lower volumes and other effects primarily lower earnings from asset sales. Liquids production decreased 2% due to the maintenance activities in West Africa, and also price and spend impacts. Natural gas production was also lower, primarily due though natural field decline in mature areas. Oil equivalent volumes were down 2% from the fourth quarter. For further data on regional volumes, please refer to the press release and IR supplement.

Turning now to the downstream results, earnings in the first quarter were $1.2 billion, down nearly $750 million from the first quarter of 2007. Refining margins were markedly lower, compressed by rising crude prices which reduced earnings by $1 billion. Volume and mix effects increased earnings by $350 million, primarily due to refinery optimization activities. Other effects reduced earnings by $90 million reflecting higher operating expenses, including increased U.S. turnaround activity partially offset by positive foreign exchange effects. Sequentially, first quarter earnings were $1.1 billion, below fourth quarter 2007. Lower margins, reduced earnings by $360 million, while volume and mixed effect decreased earnings by $80 primarily due to increased turn around activity in the U.S. Other factors reduced earnings by $660 million including the absence of positive LIFO inventory effects of about 250 million and approximately 400 million in lower earnings associated from asset sales.

Focusing now on our chemical earnings, first quarter chemical earnings of $1 billion were were $210 million lower than the first quarter of 2007. Lower margins reduced earnings by $350 million as higher feed stock costs more than offset increased product realizations. Other impacts increased earnings by $140 million, reflecting favorable foreign exchange and tax effects. Sequentially first quarter chemical earnings decreased by by $85 million. Higher margins increased earnings by $40 million as increased realizations more than offset higher feed stock costs. Lower volumes reduced earnings by $30 million while other factors, including the absence of positive tax and LIFO effects reduced earnings by $90 million.

Turning now to our corporate and financing segment, corporate and financing expenses in the first quarter were $90 million versus earnings of $90 million in the same period a year ago, including the impact of higher corporate costs and the absence of positive tax effects. The effective tax rate for the first quarter was 49%. Our cash balance was $41 billion and debt was $10 billion at the end of the first quarter. The corporation distributed a total of nearly $10 billion to shareholders in the first quarter through dividends and share purchases to reduce shares outstanding. An increase of $1.1 billion or 13% versus the first quarter of 2007.

During the first quarter ExxonMobil made share purchases in excess of dilution of $8 billion reducing the number of shares outstanding by 1.8% and further demonstrating our ongoing commitment to return cash to our shareholders. Yesterday our Board announced an increase in the quarterly dividend of just over 14% to $0.40 per share. ExxonMobil has paid a dividend each year for more than a century. And has increased its annual dividend payment for 26 consecutive years. CapEx in the first quarter was was $5.5 billion, up almost almost $1.3 billion or 30% from the first quarter of 2007 and consistent with our outlook for 2008.

In summary, this quarter's results again highlight the quality of our integrated business model and disciplined investment approach, allowing us to leverage robust industry conditions and deliver superior results for our shareholders. That concludes my prepared remarks and I'd now be happy to take your questions.

OPERATOR: Thank you, Mr. Hubble. ( OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS ). We'll go first to Doug Terreson of Morgan Stanley.

DOUG TERRESON, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Good morning, Henry.

HENRY HUBBLE: Good morning, Doug.

DOUG TERRESON: In US refinery and marketing specifically at Shell Met, my question regards whether the economic effect of the switch away from Venezuelan feed stock was significant in the period and if so any quantification on that fact would be appreciated.

HENRY HUBBLE: It was not a major factor in the results. The primary issue associated with the -- the margins that you saw really were -- they were kind of across the board, if you look around the globe.

DOUG TERRESON: Sure.

HENRY HUBBLE: And you look at the composite worldwide margin, it was -- it was down about 245 a barrel and it was really -- it was really kind of shared throughout the system. And so there -- yes, I won't point to anything specific at Shell Met.

DOUG TERRESON: Okay. And also did you say that the $660 million other item that unfavorably affected the downstream was related to LIFO mixed effects and if I missed that what was that negative delta related to?

HENRY HUBBLE: Yes. We had -- we had about about $250 million of LIFO affects in the fourth quarter, you may recall.

DOUG TERRESON: Okay.

HENRY HUBBLE: And then there was also lower gains from asset sales. We had a number of asset sales that were in that period and it was the absence of 400 million -- a little over 400 million-dollars of asset sales that were not in the period so what are you seeing here is pretty clean in terms of overall other impacts.

DOUG TERRESON: Okay. Okay. Thanks a lot.

HENRY HUBBLE: Yes.

OPERATOR: And we'll go next to Mark Flannery at Credit Suisse.

MARK FLANNERY, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Hi. I've got a couple of questions. One is can you tell us what is happening with unit production costs and unit DD&A in international EMP? We still seeing both of those numbers rise. And would you expect maybe to see them trend down a little bit in the second half of the year as you get some of that new production on? And then I have a second question.

HENRY HUBBLE: Well, if you look at -- if you look kind of -- you are going to have impacts, non-cash impacts associated with the new projects that we are bringing on and you are seeing those continuing impacts as we are basically spending -- the CapEx spending to bring on those new projects. But I guess step back from it in terms of inflationary effects we're -- we have a -- a consistent program of working to offset those things, and if you look at -- when we look kind of across the board, around the globe, we're pretty well able to offset the normal inflation effects. There are some areas of our business where we're seeing, higher rates of inflation that we're not able to fully offset but -- but we've been able to get, two thirds of that essentially in the past. And we're just -- we're just not immune to those cost impacts, but I think from the upstream perspective, the real focus that I would point to is to look at the net income per barrel. You will find that the capture rate of earnings that we have on a per barrel basis continues to be quite strong. And that is a reflection of being able to manage all of these impacts overall in a positive way.

MARK FLANNERY: Okay. Thanks. Can I just switch for my second one over to European refinery run rates, which were -- at least against our model, a little bit light in the first quarter. How would you characterize your maintenance activities there?

HENRY HUBBLE: Well, yes. In the -- in the through put area, if you look at -- the biggest impact in Europe was the [Ingalstat] refinery sale that we had in the period. That took out, well over 90 a day of capacity. So that was -- that was the -- so that was the big -- and we did have a turn around at Bali in the period as well. But if you are looking at general, we did see some -- we did see some lower demand as well. But that was -- those were the big impacts in the period.

MARK FLANNERY: Right. And just to round that question out, on the -- on U.S. refining, are you sparing any downstream capacity right now, particularly thinking about FCC's or other gasoline units?

HENRY HUBBLE: No. All of our conversion capacity is running full, has been running full. And we did have some turn around activity in the period, basically doing essential maintenance that we have to do. And we tend to be a little -- in the -- outside of the gasoline season, we tend to take more of those turnarounds and so we end up about -- if you look around the globe, about 30% of our turnarounds in the -- in the first quarter. But in the U.S. in particular, basically we're running -- running converging capacity full out.

MARK FLANNERY: Great, thanks a lot.

HENRY HUBBLE: And, overall when you look at the market supplies, as you know, I mean gasoline inventories have been quite high. We've been really aiming to maximize the distillate production in the period as well.

MARK FLANNERY: Great. Thank you.

HENRY HUBBLE: Yes.

OPERATOR: We'll go next to Neil Mc McMahon at Bernstein.

NEIL MCMAHON, ANALYST, BERNSTEIN: Hi, Henry.

HENRY HUBBLE: Hi, Neil.

NEIL MCMAHON: Just a few questions. The first is really on your increase in exploration expense. I think that this must be down to the [Tehrenna] block in Columbia and it looks like that a dry well was drilled there. And that was done using your R3 M electromagnetic technology and it sort of follows as I interpret the news reports correctly sort of disappointing results from the Orphan Basin last year as well. Am I right in thinking this and does that raise questions about some of that technology?

HENRY HUBBLE: Well, the -- what you see in the numbers, in the -- the increased costs have really been associated with seismic activity. When you look at the number of places that we have acquired acreage positions and we're now out basically shooting seismic to evaluate those in both Libya, New Zealand, others. Now when you get -- when you get back to a comment on the R Cube M technology, we're utilizing that broadly but it is not a silver bullet though. It is a technology that helps to reduce risk and helps to improve our evaluation of these but it doesn't give you a 100% indication. So the way we utilize it, it helps to derisk these plays but whenever you are dealing with a wildcat exploration well, you are going to have -- still have, even with R Cubed M, significant risks associated with those but obviously these are prospects that we think have potential and we're evaluating the data from both the Orphan well and the Tyrona wells that we drilled and looking at next steps.

NEIL MCMAHON: But you are still planning Madagascar and Solan Basin offshore New Zealand and those exploration wells are still part of the whole wildcat risk/reward program?

HENRY HUBBLE: Yes, yes, I mean, all of those things. And we continue to -- we continue to utilize the R Cubed M as part of our data collection efforts because we do believe it is delivering value in our ability to assess prospects.

NEIL MCMAHON: Okay. Just a second question which was really on the production sharing agreements in West Africa and it appeared that Kizomba A and B went from cost oil from profit oil last year, was there anything in addition to that maybe on your interest in block 17 that did that in this quarter that brought volumes down or was it just a general West African effect that plus the maintenance?

HENRY HUBBLE: Well, you have a combination. I mean, when you have -- when you are doing a year-on-year comparison, the tranch effects that we saw last year, you are still seeing those in the year-on-year comparison, you are going to continue to see those year-on-year comparisons. Now, there are multiple tranches, different projects come off it-- came on at different points so you are at different places and different ones, but the other PSE effect that we talked about a little bit was you continue to have price and spend impacts associated with them, and that's basically variable reflecting the current price of crude and the relative spend that is going on in the given period so we see both of those effects. But all of that, when you come back and look at it, on the -- on the grand scheme of things, we've been -- we've been capturing significant early value. These projects are performing very well and both from the original project development but also in their continuing operations but we are getting into some lower tranches in a number of these fields.

NEIL MCMAHON: Great. Thanks a lot.

HENRY HUBBLE: Yes.

OPERATOR: Next to Michael Lamont at JP Morgan.

MICHAEL LAMONT, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Hi, Henry.

HENRY HUBBLE: Hi.

MICHAEL LAMONT: Very quickly on -- on Hungary, maybe if I can ask you to do a little bit of compare and contrast, particularly given the news flow around Hainesville and Marcellus and some of the shale plays and inconventional plays in the lower 48, you mentioned Horn River basin in Canada obviously, but I'm wondering if you've taken a look at those lower 48 plays at all and see something in Hungary that is truly unique? Can you provide a little bit more color on that maybe -- maybe in contrast to some relative opportunities here?

HENRY HUBBLE: Yes. Well, I'm not -- I -- I can't give you a relative comparison. What I can tell you is that we've got a pretty wide aperture on what we're looking at, we look at a lot of prospects and we have a global program that allows us to look and assess opportunities around the globe and what we try to do is to identify the best resources of type wherever they are. And having that global capability is one of the advantages that we have, and these are some of the areas that we think have potential but still early days. We're going to be going through an evaluation of the Hungary and the Horn River and others.

MICHAEL LAMONT: Can --

HENRY HUBBLE: Now, when you come down to why do we see advantage in some of these areas, we bring some technology, frankly, that makes -- that we think provides us with some unique advantages in these kinds of developments with the multi-zone stimulation technology that we have, with the fast drill technologies that we have, all of those are really important in these kinds of developments. We're going to be drilling a lot of wells in tight gas kinds of plays.

MICHAEL LAMONT: Is it geology or end market or both that sort of pushes you into an area like Hungary?

HENRY HUBBLE: All of the above.

MICHAEL LAMONT: Okay. And is there anything in particular in the resource that you can talk about today that would lead you to build such a big position? Almost 600,000 acres.

HENRY HUBBLE: I -- as I say we've basically been able to take advantage of our global understanding of these potential basins and to get in there early and work with the folks on being able to evaluate these prospects. But, again, we're going to be going through an evaluation phase. We're going to be doing seismic and other delineation activities to understand what we have there.

MICHAEL LAMONT: Okay. Maybe to zoom back on the global scale quickly, just how firm's the seismic activity? How do you see that unfolding over the next few quarters? Are you still in an expansion mode there? Is it a steady state? Is it going to be winding down over the next few quarters?

HENRY HUBBLE: I mean, if you are watching our acreage pickup, we have a number of areas that we're going to be taking a look at and so I would say -- I can not give you a direct figure but directionally up.

MICHAEL LAMONT: Okay. That's helpful. And then lastly thoughts on the Alaska pipeline.

HENRY HUBBLE: Yes. Well, as we continue to look for ways to move that forward. Been evaluating the various proposals and in discussions around those various proposals. And basically looking for the most effective way to, one, get the maximum value for the state of Alaska, ourselves, the production and to move that ahead. But, what we're trying to -- what we're trying to do is to basically evaluate the various options that are there now and what our next steps ought to be.

MICHAEL LAMONT: Okay. How we should think about the current proposal that BP and Conoco are putting forward?

HENRY HUBBLE: Well, we're in-- from our own perspective, probably ought to talk to those guys about that in particular but from our perspective we're evaluating that. We've been asked to participate and we're -- we're looking at it.

MICHAEL LAMONT: Okay. Thank you.

OPERATOR: And next are June Murdy at Goldman Sachs.

JUNE MURDY, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Thank you, Henry follow-up on the West African oil production, You mentioned maintenance activity hurt volumes in the first quarter.

HENRY HUBBLE: Yes.

JUNE MURDY: Would it be possible to quantify the rough magnitude of that?

HENRY HUBBLE: Yes it was in the -- about 40, 40 a day of impact there.

JUNE MURDY: 40 a day. Got you.

HENRY HUBBLE: Yes.

JUNE MURDY: So then that sort of gets us back to where the 3 Q and 4 Q production was and the profit share?

HENRY HUBBLE: Yes. When you look at -- when you look at the -- the PSE net interest changes and the -- and the price spend impacts, because we did see even higher prices in this period, you've got about -- in total, the combination of those in West Africa is about 120.

JUNE MURDY: The combination of maintenance and the PSE effects?

HENRY HUBBLE: No. Actually, the combination of PS net interest changes and price spend impacts.

JUNE MURDY: Oh, I'm sorry, price spend impacts. Got you', that's 120.

HENRY HUBBLE: Yes.

JUNE MURDY: Okay.

HENRY HUBBLE: And then maintenance was on top of that.

JUNE MURDY: That then starts making more sense. We've thought of Africa overall as a growing region and so your net volumes can be what they are but the gross volumes we thought are probably increased and it sounds like that would get us closer.

HENRY HUBBLE: Well, when you -- when you are looking at gross production in the area, yes it is a growing area.

JUNE MURDY: Yes, absolutely. Henry any update on the timing of the Qatar LNG projects that are scheduled to start up this year, are they still slated for second half of this year?

HENRY HUBBLE: Yes, both -- both of them we expect to have on this year. One we are basically looking at the Qatar gas two train four in 2008 and then the Ross gas train six also in 2008. But they will be back-end loaded as we mentioned.

JUNE MURDY: Back end loaded and presumably some ramp-up period as well.

HENRY HUBBLE: Yes. They will come on pretty fast once they start up, but basically you will see part-year effects from the start-ups.

JUNE MURDY: Yes. That is great. And then just a final one on the Alaskan gas, is some of the controversy, if that is the right word, over the point Thompson field, is your participation or not in the Alaska pipeline potentially tied to what ultimately happens to the point Thompson resource?

HENRY HUBBLE: Well, point -- point Thompson is going to be -- is important to the Alaska pipeline. It is starting to make sense out of that pipeline without point Thompson being developed. And so it -- there -- you need both. And -- and our view on the point Thompson, I mean, we've -- we were frankly surprised and disappointed by the department of natural resources decision there. And we'll be pursuing our rights in that area. And we're appealing -- appealing or asking for a rehearing on that. But we -- we laid out commitments there to bring that production on and develop that production so frankly we were surprised to see how that turned out at this point and we'll be pursuing for rehearing and our rights further in that regard.

JUNE MURDY: Got you. That's great. Thank you very much, Henry.

HENRY HUBBLE: Yes, no problem.

OPERATOR: And next to Paul Sankey at Deutsche Bank.

PAUL SANKEY, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Hi, good morning, Henry.

HENRY HUBBLE: Good morning.

PAUL SANKEY: Henry if you don't mind I would like to keep rooting around in the volumes here.

HENRY HUBBLE: Yes, yes.

PAUL SANKEY: Firstly to go on the lines, on the U.S. I'm assuming that the fund is all natural field decline, the 10% decline is related to that or were there issues with maintenance and downtime there?

HENRY HUBBLE: The big chunk of that is decline. It is a mature area and the bulk of what you have is decline.

PAUL SANKEY: Sure.

HENRY HUBBLE: When we talk about our -- our global decline rates, we -- we've been talking about, high five, 6%, in that level.

PAUL SANKEY: Sure.

HENRY HUBBLE: So this is a mature area and that's what you are seeing there.

PAUL SANKEY: Okay, great, thanks. And Canada, South America. I know there were some issues in Canada. Can you strip out what was Canada and what was Venezuela.

HENRY HUBBLE: Well, Venezuela is essentially all of it that you are looking at there.

PAUL SANKEY: Okay.

HENRY HUBBLE: And when you -- when you get down into the gas, the big change there, I mean that's basically -- the bulk of that is wizard blowdown. We had that at -- it is the absence of having wizard blowdown versus last year.

PAUL SANKEY: Got you. And you've gone through Africa in some detail.

HENRY HUBBLE: Right.

PAUL SANKEY: The one question I've got is Nigeria now has reportedly had a 800,000 barrel a day outage and a strike.

HENRY HUBBLE: Yes.

PAUL SANKEY: Can you comment on that for the quarter, this quarter.

HENRY HUBBLE: Yes. What you -- what you heard, we had a-- on April 24th, the local chapter of the Senior Oil workers Union there in Nigeria, halted collective bargaining discussions that we had and withdrew their services there. The -- the union subsequently shut-in those facilities. What we've heard this morning is that the -- the union has -- has directs the employees to return to the facilities and so we're anticipating that will move things ahead there.

PAUL SANKEY: So that should be a ten-day outage for the quarter?

HENRY HUBBLE: That implies a start-up, a ramp-up and I really do not know what that is going to be. There is still discussion going on. They've directed people back to work but we still have discussions going on there.

PAUL SANKEY: And last one on the granularity on volumes, Europe we see the jump with the gas season but I was wondering on the oil if there was anything that can you strip out there between the various effects on the decline?

HENRY HUBBLE: There's some downtime in there, but a big piece of that again is -- it is a mature area, and mostly decline.

PAUL SANKEY: Got you. Sales, Henry, of products, overall worldwide down 5%, U.S. down 8%, Asia Pacific down 6%. Could you just talk us through, I'm assuming that's not the market collapsing, if you could just talk us through the effects there, that would be great on petroleum product sales.

HENRY HUBBLE: Yes. I mean, if you look at it by region, the impacts -- I mean, essentially what we're seeing is in the mature markets we are seeing some softening of demand. But if we look at global growth, overall, we're still seeing on an overall net basis petroleum product growth of lower rates of growth versus our ten-year average but still growth. Most of that occurring in the developing parts of the world and then the price control -- price controlled areas. Now the -- our specific results, the bulk of our reductions are actually associated with the portfolio high grading and the divestment activities, about 60% of that is associated with that. The balance is due to a number of factors including, as we talked, lower refinery throughput but also demand, softening of the demand and those are really the major impacts in the decrease in the overall product sales.

PAUL SANKEY: Great. I appreciate that. And then the final one on this -- on this line and then I've got one very brief follow-up is chemicals it is notable that your U.S. sales volumes are sharply down.

HENRY HUBBLE: I mean there is some of this that, we -- there was a piece of that were mostly in commodities. And -- and you saw that both in the U.S. and Europe. But some of that is -- is basically associated with turnarounds as well. In the chemicals business we talk about mini cycles within the business and frequently when you see rapidly rising crude prices and feed stock costs, there will be pre buying and then people holding off and so you will see some -- you will see some swings in volumes associated with that basically trying to manage the price impacts.

PAUL SANKEY: Okay. So we should go back to -- to expecting more like a 2.7 million tons in the U.S. And what is the potential for --

HENRY HUBBLE: Well, I mean, we'll see how it develops. But, yes, I don't have any better basis to tell you at this point. I mean, the quality of the business, obviously, is very good. And, it is a growing business. I mean, we continue to see it grow and a couple of GDP or above -- a couple of percent above worldwide GDP growth. So it is a growing -- but most of that again has been Asia-Pac area so that's where we're making the investments.

PAUL SANKEY: Yes. And the very last question that I have for you briefly tax rate at 49%, can you just talk more about whether or not that is a sustainable, the ongoing level and I'll leave it there.

HENRY HUBBLE: Well, yes. When you look at the tax rates, the increase there, I mean essentially part of that's -- the biggest piece of it, if you look year-on-year it is essentially mix of earnings, you have more upstream earnings, less in the downstream areas and also the mix around the globe as to where we're getting those earnings and so that was a big piece of that. And then -- and then we did have some lower one time tax items, and that was also in there. And so that -- those are the two big things, you no it is going to be very dependent on that mix of earnings for the future and so it's -- it's hard to predict. We've seen it moving around here a bit more lately because every the volatility and prices. So it's -- it's hard to predict exactly how that is going to be going forward.

PAUL SANKEY: Thanks, Henry. I will leave it there.

HENRY HUBBLE: All right, very good.

OPERATOR: And we'll go next to Doug Leggate at Citigroup.

DOUG LEGGATE, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Thanks, hi, Henry.

HENRY HUBBLE: Hi, Doug.

DOUG LEGGATE: A couple of things and also some housekeeping questions, the cash flow, the -- cash flow was very high this quarter.

HENRY HUBBLE: Yes.

DOUG LEGGATE: Is that just timing of tax payments or can you help us understand what is going on a little bit there.

HENRY HUBBLE: You've got a piece of it, timing of tax payments we typically see that in the -- in the first quarter, where -- both Norway and U.S. we have more tax expense than we have actual payments in the period. And then the other -- but the bigger factor actually was associated with crude payables. And as you saw the rapid run-up or the higher crude prices we have basically a -- it flows through into higher crude payables and that was the -- that was the biggest impact and of course you also had some net income increase that also impacted that as well. But, the biggest factors were in the working capital changes.

DOUG LEGGATE: Can you give a total working capital move in the quarter?

HENRY HUBBLE: Well, I mean, if you come back to -- it will come out in the Q, but there's a -- the bulk of it is basically associated with the crude payables and if you look at that Delta, it is the biggest piece of the unexplained portion because the DD&A is about the same, flat.

DOUG LEGGATE: Second just it jump back to Paul's question on the tax rate, to give us a breakdown, can you give us what the quantity, what those one-time tax items were so can get an underlying tax rate for the quarter?

HENRY HUBBLE: It was the smaller piece of the delta, if you look at -- the union was about a 20 -- about a third of the delta that you saw between the period.

DOUG LEGGATE: Would it be reasonable, let's assume we were in a similar environment over the balance of this year, we would expect that kind of rate going forward?

HENRY HUBBLE: Well, as I said, I -- it's going to depend very much on how the margins, and the mix of earnings play out. If you get identical, maybe. I will tell you now it never has been identical.

DOUG LEGGATE: All right. I'll leave it there.

HENRY HUBBLE: Yes.

DOUG LEGGATE: Thanks, Henry.

HENRY HUBBLE: All right, very good.

OPERATOR: We'll go next to Paul Cheng at Lehman Brothers.

PAUL CHENG, ANALYST, LEHMAN BROTHERS: Hi, Henry. How are you doing?

HENRY HUBBLE: Hi, Paul. Very good.

PAUL CHENG: That number -- a quick one, just wanted to clarify, I think you are talking about the lack of foreign exchange gain in a number of your comment and so could we assume that this is a pretty clear quarter in absolute term there is no major foreign inventory gain or also or inventory gain or loss?

HENRY HUBBLE: That's correct, that's correct. The inventory impacts that you see in our results and generally that you see in the -- in the fourth quarter associated with LIFO.

PAUL CHENG: Right. So that this quarter if we -- on the project forward, that is a pretty clean quarter to use?

HENRY HUBBLE: That's correct. That's correct.

PAUL CHENG: All right.

HENRY HUBBLE: You did -- you did have some ForEx impact, in the small though overall.

PAUL CHENG: Yes. And what is the magnitude on that? You saw you have some ForEx impact? Is it 50 million? 100? 200?

HENRY HUBBLE: No, less than 100 million.

PAUL CHENG: Less than 100.

HENRY HUBBLE: For total, yes.

PAUL CHENG: Okay. And in Alaska, after the higher tax rate or the -- whatever you call production tax, I guess, the -- do you -- can you quantify for us say in the first quarter with the high oil price what is that incremental hit on you guys?

HENRY HUBBLE: I don't -- I don't really have a -- a delta quarter-on-quarter on that.

PAUL CHENG: Yes. Maybe I try another one. Henry, when I looked at the European gas sales volume.

HENRY HUBBLE: Yes.

PAUL CHENG: Certainly you have a nice pickup, typically they always do in the first quarter but for quite some time I think that the message is that you have substantially more excess capacity as a function of the demand, if the demand is there you can sell far more gas so I would -- I thought that the gas volume, given how robust the market there would be even higher so is that now that -- sort of like being constrained by the production capacity in Europe that the most that you can do is about 5.12, -- 5.1, 5.2 B unless you bring on new gas?

HENRY HUBBLE: No, no, we're basically meeting demand there and as you know the [Granecon] operations serve as a bit of the European swing and it was not -- it was not capped out. And it is -- basically it is reflecting the cooler weather, that's what -- and you are meeting demand there.

PAUL CHENG: No. I mean the -- the weather is pretty cold over there and so I thought it would be higher demand than that. And so you are saying that you are actually still even in the first quarter have excess capacity in production capacity that if you -- if there is a demand there that you can actually increase that?

HENRY HUBBLE: Yes, that's correct.

PAUL CHENG: Okay. What is your capacity over there now? Any rough idea?

HENRY HUBBLE: I -- I don't have that off the top here.

PAUL CHENG: Okay. A final question, you -- over the last, say, 18 months I think a lot of your smaller counterparts has been pretty optimistic on some of the non-conventional play in U.S. and obviously that Exxon is very optimistic about the -- but we have not heard much about the (inaudible - highly accented) all the other one, wondering how Exxon lacking at in the lower 48 along conventional play outside [pion], is that -- those are too small, not economic enough there for you guys to be interested or that is an area that you guys may be interested also?

HENRY HUBBLE: Yes, I mean we're doing -- we're -- we're constantly evaluated and we basically are looking for -- what we do is we look for the before the opportunities on a global basis. And that's -- as I mentioned earlier, that's one of the benefits we have of that global approach. And, we're targeting what we feel are the best opportunities that we see out there.

PAUL CHENG: So, in other words then, since you guys have not really made any significant attempt into the other non-conventional that in your global portfolio those ones just depth rank very high up.

HENRY HUBBLE: Well, we don't always talk about everything that we're looking at and so there may be more to come, who knows?

PAUL CHENG: Very good, thank you.

HENRY HUBBLE: Yes.

OPERATOR: We'll go next to Robert Kessler at Simmons and company.

ROBERT KESSLER, ANALYST, SIMMONS & COMPANY: Yes, fairly quick but granular questions on production.

HENRY HUBBLE: Yes.

ROBERT KESSLER: One, do you have a stat for what Mondo would have produced on average in the quarter or what it is producing today and they secondly on the where are you in terms of total production there now.

HENRY HUBBLE: Yes, is still 55 million cubic feet per day.

ROBERT KESSLER: About what you were running, say, a year ago, isn't it?

HENRY HUBBLE: Yes. Basically the expansion has not come on at this point. We're -- we're working in that direction but it has not -- but that has not come on. And so, yes, that's about -- and -- and Mondo is, it is about 100.

ROBERT KESSLER: About 100 on average for the quarter or today?

HENRY HUBBLE: That's down -- down -- today, yes.

ROBERT KESSLER: 100 today.

HENRY HUBBLE: Yes.

ROBERT KESSLER: Great. And just in terms of follow-up on Pieance, I would have thought that this is just a fairly well intensity development and I would have expected more routable -- is it going to be lumpy or what should we --

HENRY HUBBLE: Well, it requires gas processing and some of those facilities, basically the facilities are full and it is it for those increments of gas processing.

ROBERT KESSLER: Okay. Thank you.

HENRY HUBBLE: Yes.

OPERATOR: And next to Mark Gilman at Benchmark.

MARK GILMAN, ANALYST, THE BENCHMARK COMPANY: Henry, good morning.

HENRY HUBBLE: Hey, Mark.

MARK GILMAN: I in the in conjunction with your entry into the Horn River basin, this is now the second thing I guess I can pint to where you and Imperial have interests that are side-by-side.

HENRY HUBBLE: Yes.

MARK GILMAN: Is it mandated that in Canada to the extent ExxonMobil does anything it has to be along with Imperial's participation?

HENRY HUBBLE: No. No.

MARK GILMAN: It is not?

HENRY HUBBLE: No.

MARK GILMAN: Okay.

HENRY HUBBLE: We work with them, obviously, very closely.

MARK GILMAN: Ye, I mean I guess I just kind of wonder it is the similar kind of structure as [Curl] and why it is, all things considered that, you would not do it on a 100% basis as opposed to, necessarily involving Imperial at all.

HENRY HUBBLE: Well, I mean, we'll basically enter into these arrangements with what we think is going to deliver the most -- overall value to our shareholders and the structure is aligned with that.

MARK GILMAN: Okay. You made reference in your opening comments to the new Malaysian PSC. You've been the industry's leading producer in that country for a number of years operating under an existing PSC. I'm wondering does this new PSC essentially extend the existing one and are the terms more onerous?

HENRY HUBBLE: Well, let's see. I mean -- it -- it's basically an extension of the -- of the existing arrangements that we have there but it does anticipate more -- , enhanced oil recovery and -- and it's basically a -- a PSC, an extension of that PSC

MARK GILMAN: Are the fiscal terms the same?

HENRY HUBBLE: We don't get into the specifics on that.

MARK GILMAN: Okay. Final one, in your discussion of the ENP variances, you referred to tax factor also in the other category and I'm wondering whether that was rate oriented or merely total dollar oriented that was at the root of your comment.

HENRY HUBBLE: Yes. I mean, some of -- it's a -- it's a mix of -- of different things, I really won't point to one in particular it is a bit of both, is what you have there. But they are one-time effects.

MARK GILMAN: They are one time.

HENRY HUBBLE: Yes, most of them.

MARK GILMAN: So therefore it is not a rate item.

HENRY HUBBLE: Well, yes, a rate in a period.

MARK GILMAN: But not a statutory rate change or something along those lines?

HENRY HUBBLE: No, that's right, that's right.

MARK GILMAN: Okay. Just one final volume question, on Asia Pacific, middle eastern gas volumes, sort of a little bit lower than what I would have thought they would be. Is that a PSE effect at all, I mean [Algalech] all has that kind of structure, I believe.

HENRY HUBBLE: Yes. No. I mean, basically the decrease is -- is largely lower -- lower demand in -- in Qatar and then you also saw some in Australia as well, and so you saw the combined effects. We did have some planned maintenance in Qatar and that -- that was really the big impacts.

MARK GILMAN: Okay. Thanks a lot, Henry.

HENRY HUBBLE: Yes.

OPERATOR: And we'll go next to Eric Melkey at Merrill lynch.

ERIC MELKEY, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: Hi, Henry. A couple of quick ones from me. Just want to make sure that I understand the maintenance impacts in West Africa in the first quarter correctly.

HENRY HUBBLE: Yes.

ERIC MELKEY: Could you quantify the sequential impact and if we should expect those volumes to be back on in the second quarter?

HENRY HUBBLE: Yes. I mean, sequentially, we -- it was about 30 in that range.

ERIC MELKEY: And -- and they should be back on for Q2?

HENRY HUBBLE: I'm -- I'm looking at what -- what I have on schedule. I think -- yes, I think that's -- that's good to assume.

ERIC MELKEY: Okay. And on the production sharing contract, impact on production, is there a season impact, a quarterly impact that you have more cost recovery at the beginning of the year and therefore you have great entitlement in the earlier quarters or do you accrue for that so to speak during the entire process?

HENRY HUBBLE: No, it's not accrual. Basically as the spending occurs it's -- it's reimbursed.

ERIC MELKEY: Okay. And -- and on BMS 22 in Brazil, are you able to give us an update on where you are with the rig?

HENRY HUBBLE: Well, we're -- we had scheduled basically looking to do that in the third quarter of this year, and we're bringing in a C drill rig to do that work. And -- and we have no -- no change to that plan, basically it will be done in the second half.

ERIC MELKEY: That's the new C drill rig. Is that -- when do you expect delivery of that?

HENRY HUBBLE: Yes, I mean it's -- I mean basically in the Summer but I don't know the exact date on it.

ERIC MELKEY: Okay.

HENRY HUBBLE: Yes.

ERIC MELKEY: And for one production in Russia, peek was 250 and you are currently running at about 225. Do you expect to maintain 225?

HENRY HUBBLE: Yes.

ERIC MELKEY: Gross --

HENRY HUBBLE: Yes. It's -- it's going to be in the -- in that range with maybe some -- some decline but that's -- that's pretty close.

ERIC MELKEY: But -- but not the 10% type decline that we saw year-on-year?

HENRY HUBBLE: No. There -- I don't -- I really don't have field specific data that I can -- you know, throw out there for you.

ERIC MELKEY: Okay.

HENRY HUBBLE: But you --

ERIC MELKEY: And -- and since the -- the Investor Day that you had back in -- in March, there's been some news on the project can you talk about whether that influences your timing of [Curl] --

HENRY HUBBLE: As you -- as you know, we were disappointed with the -- with the water permit issue. We're -- we're basically proceeding with the work that can go on outside of -- outside of that, so we're doing trench work and that kind of thing. And then, in terms of the timing of the project though, we're optimistic we're going to get this-- the permit was valid and we'll get that resolve here so we're not -- we're not, identifying any significant impacts in the -- in the schedule, and we'll be updating that as we -- as we move forward.

ERIC MELKEY: Okay. So the project is not on hold until you get the permit then?

HENRY HUBBLE: No, no.

ERIC MELKEY: Okay. That's all for me, thanks.

HENRY HUBBLE: Yes.

OPERATOR: This does conclude the time that we had set aside for questions. At this time I would like to turn the conference back for any closing or additional comments.

HENRY HUBBLE: Well, would I just like to thank everybody for the time and questions and look forward to next quarter. Thank you.

OPERATOR: This does conclude today's conference. We do thank you for your participation. You may disconnect at this time.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
exxn : Exxon Mobil Corporation
   IN
i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1300003 : Crude Petroleum Extraction | iextra : Natural Gas/Oil Extraction
   NS
c11 : Plans/Strategy | c15 : Performance | ntra : Transcript | c151 : Earnings | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
Voxant, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020080517e4510012z
  


 HD
 Q4  2007  Exxon  Mobil Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final   
   WC
5,359 words
   PD
1 February 2008
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.     

   LP
OPERATOR: Good day, everyone, and welcome to this  Exxon Mobil Corporation fourth quarter 2007 earnings conference call. Today's call is being recorded.   

At this time, for opening remarks and introductions, I would like to turn the call over to the Vice President of Investor Relations and Secretary, Mr. Henry Hubble. Please go ahead, sir.   

   TD
HENRY HUBBLE, VP IR, SECRETARY,  EXXON MOBIL CORPORATION: Good morning and welcome to  Exxon Mobil's teleconference and webcast on our fourth quarter and full year 2007 financial and operating results. As you're aware from this morning's press release, we had another strong quarter. In an environment of robust commodity prices, our fourth quarter results again highlight the fundamental strength of our business. We continue to deliver superior operational performance and leverage our integrated capabilities while investing at record levels in an industry-leading portfolio of projects to bring supplies to market.   

Before we go further, I would like to draw your attention to our cautionary statement. Please note that estimates, plans and projections are forward-looking statements. Actual results including resource recoveries, volume growth, and project outcomes could differ materially due to factors I discuss and factors noted in our SEC filings. Please see factors affecting future results and the form 8K we furnished this morning which are available through the investors section of our web site. Please also see the frequently-used terms, the supplements to this morning's press release and the 2006 financial and operating review on our web site. This material defines key terms I will use today, shows  Exxon Mobil's net interest in specific projects and includes our SEC regulation G disclosure.   

Now, I'm pleased to turn your attention to the fourth quarter results.  Exxon Mobil's fourth quarter 2007 normalized earnings and net income were a record for the Corporation at $11.7 billion, up 2.3 billion from the third quarter of this year, versus the fourth quarter of 2006, net income increased $1.4 billion and normalized earnings were up $1.8 billion. Fourth quarter normalized earnings per share were $2.13, up 26% from the year ago, reflecting the strength of our financial performance and the benefits of our ongoing share repurchase program.  Exxon Mobil's net income and normalized earnings for 2007 totaled $40.6 billion, also a record for the Corporation. Normalized earnings were up $1.5 billion from 2006 while net income increased $1.1 billion.   

Before I discuss specific business results, I would like to share with you some milestones achieved since our last earnings call. Starting with our upstream business. In October, we achieved initial oil production from the first expansion of the Tengiz development in Kazakhstan. When complete, this expansion project, Tengiz Phase I, will fully incorporate a second generation gas handling project with sour gas injection. The project is expected to deliver incremental production of 285,000 barrels of oil per day at full capacity. This was  Exxon Mobil's seventh major upstream project start-up in 2007.   

In January, we started up production from the Mondo field in the Exxon mobile operated Kizomba C development in block 15 offshore Angola. The Kizomba C development exemplifies  Exxon Mobil's design one build multiple strategy. As it includes two projects, Mondo and Saxi, Batuque. Each project utilizes a floating production storage and off-loading vessel that will handle up to 100,000 barrels per day. Together, these projects are expected to recover 600 million barrels of oil. We anticipate the start-up of Saxi and Batuque fields later this year completing the Kizomba C development. These projects start-ups demonstrate  Exxon Mobil's commitment to bring new energy supplies to market and deliver value to our shareholders.   

Also in the fourth quarter, we announced plans to seek regulatory approval for our blue ocean energy project. This project includes a floating LNG receiving terminal, 20 miles off the coast of New Jersey, and would have the capacity to supply about 1.2 billion cubic feet of clean burning natural gas per day, to help meet the growing energy needs of consumers in New York and New Jersey.   

During the fourth quarter, we also signed a heads of agreement with Libya's National Oil Corporation to execute an exploration and production sharing agreement. The agreement includes four blocks located in the Sirte basin, approximately 110 miles off the Libyan coast. The contract area comprises 2.5 million acres in water depths ranging from 5400 feet to more than 8700 feet. The work program includes 2D and 3D seismic and one deep water exploration well. The contract award is expected to be ratified by the Libyan government early this year. This further adds to our industry-leading portfolio of exploration opportunities around the world.   

In our downstream business, we also had a number of notable achievements in the fourth quarter.  Exxon Mobil's Baton Rouge refinery received the 2007 Energy Star award from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. This award recognizes our achievements in reducing energy consumption at the facility and our continuing efforts to improve energy efficiency in our operations. We continue to grow profitability at our refineries through our molecule management technology and our ongoing crude diversification efforts. In the fourth quarter, we ran 43 crudes, new to individual refineries and 5 new to  Exxon Mobil.

In our lubes business, we announced that  Exxon Mobil will become the title sponsor of the Penske Racing number 77 Mobil One Dodge in the 2008 NASCAR Sprint Cup series. Mobil One is the official motor oil of NASCAR and is used by more than 60% of the racing teams. This reflects the exceptional performance and protection that Mobil One provides even under the most extreme conditions and our continued commitment to developing innovative, high quality products.   

In our shipping business, both of  Exxon Mobil's maritime affiliates Sea River Maritime in the U.S. and International Marine Transportation in the U.K. were again awarded the British Safety Council's Sword of Honor. As the council's top recognition, the prestigious award highlights the exceptional quality of our people, the effectiveness of our processes and systems and our continuous efforts to further improve safety performance.   

Exxon Mobil also achieved a number of milestones in our chemical business in the fourth quarter. In December, we announced the development of new film technologies for lithium-ion batteries. These technologies have the potential to improve the energy efficiency and affordability of next generation hybrid and electric vehicles by significantly enhancing the power, safety and reliability of lithium-ion batteries. Through our Japanese affiliate, Tonen Chemical, we also signed a memorandum of understanding to progress a feasibility study for the construction and operation of a battery manufacturing facility in Gumi, South Korea. We look forward to working with automakers and battery manufacturers on implementing these technologies and addressing the challenges in producing the next generation of low emissions vehicles.   

In the quarter,  Exxon Mobil Chemical started up a new compounding facility at our integrated complex in Baton Rouge, Louisiana. This achievement, along with the formation of our new business line dedicated to specialty compounds and composites, is part of our commitment to the development, production, and marketing of engineered poly-olefin compounds around the world. This world-class facility at Baton Rouge will further enhance  Exxon Mobil's capability to supply high-performance products to the automotive, appliance and specialty consumer products industries. These developments highlight our ongoing commitment to advancing technological innovation across all of our business lines.   

Now, turning to the business line results. Upstream earnings in the fourth quarter were a record at $8.2 billion, up $2 billion from the fourth quarter of 2006. We continued to capture the benefit of strong industry conditions. This quarter with upstream after tax unit earnings of $20.97 per barrel. Higher crude oil and natural gas realizations drove the majority of the earnings increase with worldwide crude oil realizations up $29 per barrel from fourth quarter 2006. Volume and mix effects were negative as lower crude oil volumes and mix effects more than offset increased natural gas volumes. Other effects reduced earnings by $600 million, primarily due to negative tax impacts and higher operating expenses including the effect of new field start-ups. These were partially offset by positive earnings from asset sales.   

Oil equivalent volumes increased nearly 1% versus the same quarter last year, driven by higher natural gas demand in Europe. Excluding the Venezuela expropriation, divestments, quotas and price and spend impacts on volumes, production was up nearly 3%. The increase in European natural gas demand combined with major project ramp-ups in Russia, west Africa, Qatar and the North Sea, more than offset natural field declines and the PSC net interest reductions. Liquids production decreased about 160,000 barrels per day versus the same quarter last year, as natural field decline in mature areas and PSC net interest reductions more than offset the impact of major project ramp-ups in Russia and West Africa. Gas volumes increased approximately 1.1 billion cubic feet per day or 12% versus the fourth quarter of 2006. New project volumes and Qatar and the North Sea and higher demand due to colder weather in Europe were partly offset by natural field decline in mature areas.   

Turning now to the sequential comparison, versus the third quarter of 2007, upstream earnings increased by $1.9 billion. Higher realizations increased earnings by $1.6 billion, driven by an almost $14 per barrel increase in crude oil prices. Volume and mix effects were also positive due to higher natural gas volumes. Oil equivalent volumes were up nearly 9% from the third quarter due to seasonably higher natural gas demand in Europe.   

Looking now at the full year results. 2007 upstream earnings were a record $26.5 billion, an increase of 270 million over 2006. Improved realizations, increased earnings by almost $2.5 billion, reflecting a nearly $8 per barrel increase in average crude oil prices, partially offset by lower natural gas realizations. Other factors included the combined effect of higher expenses including the impact of new project start-ups, increased exploration activity and negative tax effects. Full year oil equivalent production was down 1% versus 2006. Liquid volumes were down 2% while natural gas volumes were up just under 1%. Excluding the Venezuela expropriation, divestments, quotas and price and spend impacts on volumes, production was up nearly 1%. New project volumes in West Africa, Russia, the North Sea and Qatar, more than offset natural field decline in mature areas and PSC net interest reductions of approximately 100,000 barrels per day. For further data on regional volumes, please refer to the press release and IR supplement.   

Turning now to the downstream results. Earnings in the fourth quarter were $2.3 billion, up nearly 310 million from the fourth quarter of 2006. Lower margins reduced earnings by $410 million, primarily due to lower U.S. refining margins. Volume and mix effects increased earnings by 290 million, reflecting the benefits of our ongoing refinery optimization activities. Other effects improved earnings by $430 million, driven by gains on asset sales this quarter. LIFO inventory effects were about in line with 2006. Sequentially, fourth quarter earnings increased by $265 million. Lower margins reduced earnings by 660 million, driven by weaker refining margins and marketing margins. Volume and mix effects increased earnings by 310 million, due to improved refining operations and lower turnaround activity. Other factors increased earnings by $620 million including positive LIFO inventory effects of $250 million and also higher asset sales.   

Full year 2007 downstream earnings were a record for the Corporation at $9.6 billion. $1.1 billion higher than 2006. Lower margins reduced earnings by $230 million, reflecting lower refining margins in the U.S. Volume and mix effects benefited earnings by $780 million, reflecting our ongoing focus on refinery feedstock flexibility, capacity utilization and product optimization. Other factors improved earnings by $570 million including positive effects from asset sales.   

Focusing now on our chemical results. Fourth quarter chemical earnings were $1.1 billion,130 million lower than the fourth quarter of 2006. Margin effects reduced earnings by $520 million as higher feedstock costs more than offset increased product realizations. Volume and mix effects improved earnings by $170 million, reflecting higher commodity and set specialty sales. Other factors were a positive $220 million including favorable tax and foreign exchange effects. Sequentially, fourth quarter chemical earnings decreased by $90 million. Lower margins reduced earnings by 300 million as higher feedstock costs more than offset increased realizations. Other factors benefited earnings by $180 million including positive tax and LIFO inventory effects. Full year 2007 chemical earnings were a record at $4.6 billion, up $180 million from 2006. Lower margins reduced earnings by $330 million, reflecting increased feedstock costs partially offset by higher product realizations. Higher sales volumes and positive mix effects increased earnings by $180 million. Other effects were a positive 330 million including favorable foreign exchange effects.   

Now, turning to our corporate and financing segment. The Corporation recorded fourth quarter earnings of 77 million down 341 million from fourth quarter 2006, primarily due to the absence of positive tax effects. For the full year 2007, corporate and financing segment expenses were $23 million, compared to earnings of 24 million in 2006. The effective tax rate for the fourth quarter and full year 2007 was 44%. The Corporation distributed almost $9 billion to shareholders in the fourth quarter through dividends and share repurchases to reduce shares outstanding. Of that total, 7 billion was distributed to purchase shares in excess of dilution, reducing the number of shares outstanding by 1.5%. For the full year 2007, we purchased $28 billion of shares in shares in excess of dilution and reduced shares outstanding by 6%, further demonstrating our ongoing commitment to return cash to our shareholders.   

CapEx in the fourth quarter was $6.2 billion, an increase of 21% from fourth quarter 2006 and bringing 2007 full-year CapEx to $20.9 billion. This is in line with our previous guidance and an increase of $1 billion from 2006. Fourth quarter cash flow from operations and asset sales was $13.1 billion. At the end of the fourth quarter, our cash balance was $34 billion and debt was 9.6. In summary, these record results again demonstrate how  Exxon Mobil's long-standing commitment, due to the integrity of our operations, disciplined investment and integrated business model continue to deliver superior results.   

Finally, I would like to mention two upcoming events. First, in mid February, we'll be releasing our 2007 reserves performance data. And second, as many of you will already have seen, our analyst meeting this year will take place on March 5th. This will include a live audio webcast beginning at 9:00 a.m. eastern, 8:00 a.m. central time and an update on our forward business plans.  Exxon Mobil's presenters will be led by Chairman and CEO Rex Tillerson.   

That concludes my prepared remarks. I would now be happy to take your questions.   

OPERATOR: Thank you, sir. Today's question-and-answer session will be held electronically. (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS) We will take our first question from Doug Terreson at  Morgan Stanley.

DOUG TERRESON, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Congratulations on record results, Henry.   

HENRY HUBBLE: Thanks, Doug.   

DOUG TERRESON: The rate of inflation on production costs was fairly high last year for you guys and others in the industry, too. On this point, besides the successful capital and project management plans that you guys have, I wanted to see if you would provide an update on any productivity programs or initiatives that might be in place or emerging in E&P? And also the result that you hope to achieve if these plans are in place? Meaning, in refining, for instance, you talked a little bit about the molecule management program that I think you guys expect to receive an earnings benefit of $250 million or so by '09, so the question is whether similar plans are in place in E&P, and if so, any targets you might have?   

HENRY HUBBLE: Yes. When you look at how we preach OpEx and general cost inflation across our business, it is something that basically is an approach we take, whether it is upstream, downstream chemicals, we're always looking for improved efficiencies, technologies will help lower costs. And basically, self-improvement kinds -- or self-help kinds of initiatives. If you look at the E&P area in particular, I mean fast drill is one of the -- if you look at one of the areas of the biggest ramp up in costs has been in drill rigs, and of course, things you can do to reduce those costs, drilling faster, being able to make those -- bringing the wells more productively is a big driver. We spend over $4 billion a year in drilling alone. So, it can have a big drive on reducing those costs.   

The -- when you look at our developments in the Piceance basin, the multizone stimulation technology that we have there, again, is basically driven, the technology that helps us lower costs and improve productivity of those operations. And of course, then throughout our organization, we're constantly focused on reducing energy requirements and running operations efficiently throughout the business. So I can't share some specific targets. Generally though, if you look at what we have delivered in self-help kinds of things in OpEx, it has brought forward, if you look at the past, about $1 billion a year and we'll be sharing with you the results of that in our upcoming analyst meeting.   

DOUG TERRESON: Okay. Great, Henry. Thanks a lot.   

HENRY HUBBLE: Yes.   

OPERATOR: We'll go next to Mark Flannery of  Credit Suisse.

MARK FLANNERY, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Hi, Henry.   

HENRY HUBBLE: Hi.   

MARK FLANNERY: I'm looking for some guidance really on the PSC impact that we might want to factor in for 2008. Today's been a big run up in oil prices. We're not asking you to forecast oil prices, but can you give us some rule of thumb maybe or what would to your expectations for 2008 production, let's say if oil averaged $90 in 2008 versus averaging I don't know, $70 in 2008?   

HENRY HUBBLE: Well, we'll be going through and actually updating our production profile at the analyst meeting in March. But just stepping back, I think it is maybe helpful to talk about what's been going on in this area. What you see in the PSC impacts on these net interest reductions, basically it is a reflection of accelerated -- a significant acceleration in value that we've captured associated with these projects. The higher prices basically have improved the economics but they do end up reducing the number of barrels. We have just over 20% of our production under PSC type terms, not all of those PSCs are the same. They can have different both terms and characteristics including the extent to which they changed, our volumes change over time. When you look at the effects that we've seen, most of those have occurred in Africa. And the PSC reductions and net interest reductions basically reflect us moving through investment return thresholds at the specific -- at specific developments. Now, these occur at different times during the year, it depends on the price, it depends on the performance of the projects. So, to go through and give you a rough estimate at this point is -- especially when you're doing year on year comparisons, and you look at where those tranche changes change, we'll go through and give you our best estimate of that at the March 5th meeting.   

MARK FLANNERY: Okay, great. Thanks a lot.   

HENRY HUBBLE: Yes.   

OPERATOR: We'll go next to Nikki Decker of  Bear Stearns.

NIKKI DECKER, ANALYST, BEAR STEARNS: Good morning, Henry.   

HENRY HUBBLE: Good morning.   

NIKKI DECKER: My question is on Angola. I really -- really regarding Angola development now that OPEC quotas have been assigned there. Are you seeing any changes in terms of the pace at which projects are able to move forward there? And maybe you could comment on where you are on Kizomba D?   

HENRY HUBBLE: We're not really -- in terms of impact from OPEC or their joining OPEC, we really haven't seen anything go through. As you see in the Kizomba C developments, they've moved ahead per schedule. Kizomba A satellites are moving ahead as we expect. So, I -- we can't point to anything that would say is a change there associated with that. And we've had very good relations, and as you know, those projects have performed very well both in terms of being able to bring them in on schedule and at our costs and, so basically we're moving ahead and on schedule for those deliveries.   

NIKKI DECKER: Okay. And on that note, Henry, did you say Saxi Batuque starts later this year?   

HENRY HUBBLE: Yes.   

NIKKI DECKER: Is that a little ahead of schedule?   

HENRY HUBBLE: That's about on schedule. Yes.   

NIKKI DECKER: Okay, thank you.   

HENRY HUBBLE: Yes, no problem.   

OPERATOR: We'll go next to Paul Sankey of  Deutsche Bank.

PAUL SANKEY, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Hi, Henry.   

HENRY HUBBLE: Hey, Paul.   

PAUL SANKEY: Henry, I was wondering, are you expecting to replace some of the [turn] of reserves this year?   

HENRY HUBBLE: As you know, and I mentioned, we'll give you that update in a couple of weeks here.   

PAUL SANKEY: Is that the -- is a couple of weeks kind of the time frame for that then?   

HENRY HUBBLE: Yes. Mid February we [certainly] are coming out with that and we'll have it soon.   

PAUL SANKEY: As a follow-up to Mark Flannery's question, I was wondering about PSC impacts, is there any that you can give us on here that might eat away at the number?   

HENRY HUBBLE: We'll give you the update, and we'll be talking about all of these kinds of effects at our analyst meeting. But that's just our usual time for these things, and I'm just not going to prejudge those things at this point.   

PAUL SANKEY: Yes. It was actually a trick question, Henry.   

HENRY HUBBLE: I know that.   

PAUL SANKEY: Henry, could you, just on a line item basis, go through your sales because it came up a number of times. I wondered if you could be so kind as to strip out --   

HENRY HUBBLE: speaking of that in -- in the downstream?   

PAUL SANKEY: Upstream International upstream, U.S. downstream, International, if possible? Thanks.   

HENRY HUBBLE: Yes, in the upstream, there's -- we have some asset sales, the largest of those was [Scar] and then if you look at the downstream --   

PAUL SANKEY: I guess there's no price on that?   

HENRY HUBBLE: No.   

PAUL SANKEY: Okay.   

HENRY HUBBLE: And then if you look at the downstream as we mentioned, it was about $450 million associated with the downstream divestments. Those were made up of a number of different -- none of them large and on their own, mostly in Europe and in our marketing operations. But it is part of our normal process, so we go through constantly looking at our portfolio, looking at what the market is willing to pay for things and we're constantly hi-grading and basically reflects that ongoing activity.   

PAUL SANKEY: There was nothing in chemicals?   

HENRY HUBBLE: No.   

PAUL SANKEY: And no acquisition?   

HENRY HUBBLE: Nothing of material anyway.   

PAUL SANKEY: And no acquisitions?   

HENRY HUBBLE: No.   

PAUL SANKEY: Finally, from me, Henry, Nigeria, there may be some issues, we understand to do with renegotiation there. Can you update us? And I'll leave it there. Thank you.   

HENRY HUBBLE: Yes, thanks. There's -- I mean there's been some things in the press and that kind of business, but right now, basically, the affiliates operate in several joint venture concessions there in Nigeria, and under the Nigerian law, the production sharing contract is subject to review in 2008. We're not going -- I'm not going to really speculate on the future business or discuss those future -- that might come out, those discussions will go on during that time frame. So, we'll see.   

PAUL SANKEY: Thank you.   

HENRY HUBBLE: Yes.   

OPERATOR: We'll go next to Kate Lucas of  JPMorgan.

KATE LUCAS, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Hi, good morning. It is Kate Lucas for Michael LaMotte. I have a quick question on Qatar. Seems like some contractors, like [Technique], are announcing some charges related to some overruns. Are these negotiated settlements that would translate into higher project completion costs for Exxon or are things moving along there as you had originally anticipated?   

HENRY HUBBLE: Things are moving ahead basically per schedule and we've had no changes to our assessment there in terms of the costs associated with those. I mean, if you look, there's been some things people have -- different folks have talked about potential for delays. Right now, our schedule is that as per original schedule, we anticipate start-up of Qatar Gas II Train 4 in 2008. Also the RasGas Train 6 is scheduled for start-up in 2008. And then the Qatar Gas II Train 5 projected in 2009, and RasGas Train 7 in 2009. So, no real change to what we have laid out in the past in the schedule or cost wise.   

KATE LUCAS: Okay, great. Thanks. If I could just ask a final one on Brazil. I think the original indications were that you would spud the first exploratory well on BMS 22 in the fourth quarter this year. But it seems like there may be the potential to do it sooner. Can you give us the update on the timing of the first well there?   

HENRY HUBBLE: Well, we're working to progress that, and basically we'll be moving ahead with it as they have a rig available to start that. We expect to do it in the second half of this year.   

KATE LUCAS: Okay, great. Thanks very much.   

OPERATOR: (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS) Next to Oswald Clint at Sanford Bernstein.   

OSWALD CLINT, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: Good morning, Henry.   

HENRY HUBBLE: Hi, Oswald.   

OSWALD CLINT: Just a couple of questions. First on the line items, is there -- could you tell us if there is a Canadian tax benefit in the International upstream? And then secondly, perhaps just an update on Venezuela? We didn't get any color on that this quarter. And then finally, just if there is anything you can say on the Julia discovery, in terms of can we expect an appraisal well sometime later in the current year? Thank you.   

HENRY HUBBLE: Yes, I mean in the tax area, if you look at the biggest tax impact in the upstream, the largest was associated with Alaska, actually. And then there were -- there was some impacts in Canada but relatively small. The U.K. was the other one that had some impact in the period. And then, Julia basically, as you know, we've had indications of hydrocarbon there. We're scheduled to spud in the first quarter to help, basically, appraise the extent of the discovery. And was there another piece -- oh, Venezuela. Basically, I mean it is ongoing. As you know, we have filed with the -- for the arbitrations, and we would like to get back to the table if we can get things under discussion with the Venezuelans on that. But, basically, we're proceeding on the arbitration track at this point.   

OSWALD CLINT: Okay. Thank you.   

HENRY HUBBLE: Yes.   

OPERATOR: (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS) Next to Doug Leggate of  Citigroup.

DOUG LEGGATE, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Thank you, good morning.   

HENRY HUBBLE: Hi, Doug.   

DOUG LEGGATE: I apologize, Henry, I might have missed a little bit of what you've been saying lately.   

HENRY HUBBLE: I understand.   

DOUG LEGGATE: My question was, on the kind of nonrecurring or, I guess you don't call them that anymore, but, the one of the items, just trying to get some obsolete feel for the level on the split, particularly in the downstream, and if you could go into a little bit more detail on the 600 million in the upstream also?   

HENRY HUBBLE: Again, if you look at the downstream, I'm assuming you're talking fourth quarter '07, fourth quarter '06.   

DOUG LEGGATE: Yes, if we could get the absolute number, Henry, that would be great.   

HENRY HUBBLE: Well, there were about, as we mentioned in the call, or in the script, there were about $450 million associated with asset sales in the period. And if you look at -- if you look at -- those were basically the biggest piece of those were in Europe and our marketing operations. It is part of our ongoing hi-grading, we did talk about that process just before. So none of them were by themselves very significant. And then if you look at the -- in the upstream, the 600 million negative, basically, it is a number of items as they typically are in those areas, a number of them tax related. Alaska was one of the bigger pieces but we also had impacts, as I mentioned, in the U.K. There were also increased expenses, some of that associated with the new project start-ups, in that those were kind of the big negatives in there.   

DOUG LEGGATE: Okay. If I may just go back to the 450, in the release it says 450 million higher, so was it actually 450 million absolute as well?   

HENRY HUBBLE: There weren't -- that was basically it. There wasn't much of anything else in the prior period. Right.   

DOUG LEGGATE: That's fine. Thanks very much, Henry.   

HENRY HUBBLE: Yes, no problem.   

OPERATOR: It appears as though we're standing by with no further questions at this time. Mr. Hubble, I would like to turn the conference back to you for any closing or additional comments.   

HENRY HUBBLE: Well, I would just like to thank everybody for their time and questions this morning. We look forward to sharing details on our performance and our forward business plans at the analyst meeting in March. Thank you very much.   

OPERATOR: This does conclude our conference for today. We do thank you very much for your participation. You may disconnect at this time.   

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.   

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.   

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]   

   CO
exxn : Exxon Mobil Corporation
   IN
i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1300003 : Crude Petroleum Extraction | iextra : Natural Gas/Oil Extraction
   NS
c151 : Earnings | c11 : Plans/Strategy | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
Voxant, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020080208e42100132
  


 HD
 Q3  2007  Exxon  Mobil Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final   
   WC
8,363 words
   PD
1 November 2007
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.     

   LP
OPERATOR: Good day, everyone, and welcome to this ExxonMobile Corporation third-quarter 2007 earnings conference call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time for opening remarks, I would like to turn the call over to the Vice President of Investor Relations and Secretary, Mr. Henry Hubble. Please go ahead, sir.   

HENRY HUBBLE, VICE PRESIDENT OF INVESTOR RELATIONS AND SECRETARY, EXXONMOBIL CORPORATION: Thank you, and welcome to ExxonMobile's teleconference and web cast on our third-quarter 2007 financial and operating results.   

   TD
As you're aware for this morning's press release, we had another good quarter, as the fundamentals of our business remain strong. Our integrated business model, long-standing commitment to the integrity of our operations, and disciplined approach to prudently invest and meet long-term demand growth continue to position the company to benefit from robust industry conditions.   

Before we go further, I'd like to draw your attention to our cautionary statement. Please note that estimates, plans, and projections are forward-looking statements. Actual results including resource recoveries, volume growth, and project outcomes could differ materially due factors I discuss and factors noted in our SEC filings. Please see factors affecting future results and the form 8-K we furnished this morning, which are available through the Investor section of our web site.   

Please also see the frequently used terms, the supplements to this morning's press release, and the 2006 financial and operating review on our web site. This material defines key terms I will use today, shows ExxonMobile's net interest in specific projects, and includes our SEC regulation G disclosure.   

Now I'm pleased to turn your attention to the third quarter. ExxonMobile's third-quarter net income and normalized earnings were $9.4 billion, down $1.1 billion from 2006 record third-quarter results, primarily due to lower downstream and chemical margins.   

Earnings per share were $1.70, reflecting continued strong earnings performance and the benefits of our ongoing share purchase program.   

Before I discuss specific business results, I'd like to share some of our recently achieved milestones. In the upstream, the Ormen Lange deep water natural gas project off the coast of Norway began production this quarter. At full production the development will produce more than two billion cubic feet of gas per day. The gas will be exported through the longest subsea pipeline, approximately 750 miles to the UK.   

First production was also achieved this quarter from the ExxonMobile-operated Marimba North project, offshore Angola. The project was completed ahead of schedule and within budget. This is the first tieback development to the Kizomba A infrastructure to cost effectively develop new capacity by utilizing existing field facilities. The project will develop 80 million barrels of oil and have preproduction capacity of 40,000 barrels per day.   

On October 12, gas deliveries from the Statfjord Late Life project started out via the Tampen Link pipeline in the Norwegian North Sea. This project will increase ultimate recovery from the field by 360 million oil equivalent barrels and extend field life up to 2020. Peak production is expected to reach 360 million cubic feet of gas per day and 70,000 barrels of crude and condensate per day.   

These three startups, together with the projects which began production this year, RasGas Train 5 and Cutter, Waddenzee in the Netherlands, and Rosa offshore Angola bring our 2007 to-date major project startups to six.   

In exploration, we had several notable milestones this quarter. ExxonMobile was awarded two exploration licenses, offshore western Greenland, further enhancing our strong portfolio of Arctic exploration opportunities. The West Disko block four and block six together cover over six million acres and are in 150 to 1,300 feet of water. In the recent central Gulf of Mexico lease sale ExxonMobile was the high bidder for 13 offshore blocks in the Gulf of Mexico, totaling over 70,000 acres.   

Also this quarter, together with our partners, we made a new discovery in the ultra-deep MTPS block 100 miles off the coast of the Republic of the Congo. The Cassiopi well was drilled to a depth of approximately 10,000 feet and tested at 5,600 barrels of oil per day. ExxonMobile interest in the block is 30%.   

These milestones continue to reflect the geographic diversity and strength of our industry-leading upstream portfolio.   

In the downstream, our fee diversification activities continued this quarter. We ran 34 crudes that were new to individual refineries and three that were new to ExxonMobile.   

We also maintained focus on our margin enhancement strategy which includes increasing the contribution from our refining operations through reliability improvements and effective technology deployment, while incrementally adding to our crude and conversion processing capacity.   

Also in the third quarter, ExxonMobile launched our fuels marketing joint venture in the Fujian province of China with our partners Sinopec and  Saudi Aramco. This venture, which is part of our fully integrated Fujian project, covers wholesale sales of gasoline, diesel, and other petroleum projects. ExxonMobile's investments in the Fujian refining, petrochemical, and fuels marketing joint ventures demonstrate our commitment to advantage strategic downstream and chemical investments to meet growing demand around the world.   

In our chemical business, ExxonMobile announced that we will build a second world-scale petrochemical project at our integrated refining and chemical facility in Singapore. The new project will include a one million ton-per-year ethylene steam cracker, polyethylene, polypropylene, specialty elastomer and benzene units, and expansions to our existing oxoalcohol and paraxylene units. ExxonMobile will construct a 220-megawatt co-generation unit as part of the overall investment.   

This project with the expected startup in 2011 will be key to meeting the growing demand for ExxonMobile chemical products in Asia. The project will employ ExxonMobile's latest proprietary technologies, enabling a broad range of feed stocks to be processed and converted into premium products.   

In the quarter we also announced our investment to expand the paraxylene and benzene production facilities at our Rotterdam Aromatics plant by 25% and 20% respectively. The new production unit will employ ExxonMobile's proprietary PxMax technology which increases paraxylene production and improves process efficiency.   

ExxonMobile chemical also began commercial production of butyl rubber at the Notre Dame de Gravenchon facility using proprietary breakthrough technology. This technology improves energy efficiency and enables significant capacity increases at existing facilities.   

The integration of these new projects into our existing refining and chemical operations are further examples of our strategy to develop and rapidly deploy differentiated technologies and selectively invest in advantage projects to capture the full benefits of integration across all ExxonMobile operations.   

Turning now to the business line results.   

Upstream earnings in the third quarter were $6.3 billion, down $200 million from the third quarter of 2006. Improved crude realizations were more than offset by reduced natural gas realizations, higher expenses, including the impact of major project startups, and lower property sales. Worldwide crude realizations were $71.46 per barrel, up $6.32 from the third-quarter 2006. Upstream after-tax unit earnings in the third quarter of 2007 at $17.47 per barrel, were in line with last year. In total, oil equivalent volumes were down 2% from the third quarter of 2006.   

As you're aware, on September 6, ExxonMobile filed a request for arbitration with the International Center for Settlement of Investment Disputes following the ex-appropriation of assets in Venezuela in June.   

Excluding Venezuela volume effects as well as entitlement, divestment, and quota impacts, production was actually up 3% in the third quarter. That increase was driven by increased volumes from major project ramp-ups in Russia, West Africa, and Qatar, which more than offset natural field decline.   

Turning to liquids production.   

Volumes fell by 111,000 barrels per day, or 4% from the same quarter last year primarily due to entitlement effects in Africa and the absence of Venezuela volumes. Venezuela accounted for about 40% of the reduction.   

Natural field decline was offset by project-related increases in Russia and West Africa. Gas volumes were up 163 million cubic feet per day from last year as higher production in Qatar, primarily due to the startup of RasGas Train 5, more than offset field decline in mature areas.   

Now turning to the sequential comparison.   

Versus the second quarter of 2007, upstream earnings increased by nearly $350 million. Higher realizations were partially offset by lower liquids production and seasonally lower natural gas demand. Liquids production decreased 5%, including the impact of entitlement effects in Africa and the absence of Venezuela volumes. Natural gas production was down 5%, primarily due to lower volumes in Europe, reflecting seasonally lower demand, divestment effects, and scheduled maintenance.   

For further data on regional volumes, please refer to the press release and IR supplement.   

Now turning to the downstream results. Third-quarter downstream earnings were $2 billion, down approximately $735 million from record results in the third quarter of 2006. Lower margins reduced earnings by $610 million with decreases in refining and fuels marketing margins, partially offset by improved lubes marketing margins.   

Volume mix effects increased earnings by $120 million as we benefited from our continued focus on feedstock flexibility, capacity utilization, and product optimization. These more than offset the impact of the higher planned turnaround activity. Other items reduced earnings by $250 million, reflecting increased maintenance activity and the absence of positive tax effects in third-quarter 2006.   

Sequentially, third-quarter earnings decreased by almost $1.4 billion, due to markedly lower refining margins. Volume mix effects were positive $110 million, due to lower planned maintenance in the US and refinery optimization activities. Other factors reduced earnings by $240 million, primarily the absence of positive impact from the Inglestadt divestment in the second quarter.   

Third-quarter chemical earnings were $1.2 billion. Earnings were down $150 million versus the record third quarter of 2006 as higher feedstock costs more than offset increased realizations. Positive mix effects benefited earnings by $30 million. Other factors increased earnings by $65 million, including positive tax effects.   

Sequentially, third-quarter chemicals earnings increased by $190 million versus the second quarter of 2007. Improved margins benefited earning by $110 million, while volume mix effects were negative $35 million. Other impacts increased earnings by $115 million, including positive tax effects.   

Turning now to our corporate and financing segment. The corporation recorded third-quarter expenses of $92 million in the corporate and financing segment, unchanged from the third quarter of 2006. The effective tax rate for the third quarter was 46%.   

The corporation distributed almost $9 billion to shareholders in the third quarter through dividends and share purchases to reduce shares outstanding. During the quarter, ExxonMobile purchased $7 billion in shares in excess of dilution, reducing the number of shares outstanding by 1.5% and further demonstrating our ongoing commitment to return cash to our shareholders.   

CapEx in the third quarter was $5.4 billion, an increase of 7.5% from the third quarter of 2006. At the end of the third quarter, our cash balance was $36 billion, and debt was $9 billion.   

In summary, these results highlight the fundamental strength of our business, our ability to deliver superior operational performance, and continue to grow our integrated capabilities while continuing to position ourself for future demand growth and create value for our shareholders.   

That concludes my prepared remarks, and I would now be happy to take your questions.   

OPERATOR: Thank you, Mr. Hubble.   

The question-and-answer session will be conducted electronically. If you would like to ask a question, please do so by pressing the star key followed by the digit one on your touch-tone telephone. We request that you limit your number of questions to two so that as many may have the opportunity to -- excuse me -- may have the opportunity to participate as possible. If you are using a speaker phone, please make sure your mute function is turned off to allow your signal to reach our equipment. We will proceed in the order that you signal us and will take as many questions as time permits. Once again, press star-one on your touch-tone telephone to ask a question. If you find your questions have been answered, you may remove yourself by pressing the star key followed by the digit two.   

We'll take our first question from Dan Barcelo from Banc of America. Go ahead.   

DAN BARCELO, ANALYST, BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES: Yes, good morning, Henry. Regarding one of your comments about the redistribution of cash to shareholders, you mentioned the $7 billion rate in the third quarter. Are you able to provide any color into the fourth quarter and into '08 at this point? And --   

HENRY HUBBLE: Well --   

DAN BARCELO: The second question, I will lay them out now, was on the production side. Could you just run through -- you gave good detail in the entitlement effects. Could you just reiterate the effects -- in particular I'm looking at oil in West Africa just for this quarter. What was that impact specifically for there? Thanks.   

HENRY HUBBLE: Yes. Well, as you know, unless we're making a change we don't provide forward guidance on our repurchases. We've been at the $7 billion here last quarter, and for the -- for about the last year.   

On the other question, on the volume side and the specific entitlement effects associated in Africa, you see the African volumes were down basically due to entitlement effects. The new project volumes there have been performing well and they've more than offset natural field decline. That's real what he you're seeing.   

And that's really, you know, as you look at the entitlement effects, as you know, some of that production comes from production sharing contracts. And in some of the PSC's, the net entitlement is reduced when cumulative production or profitability thresholds are reached. And, you know, as you think about this, the impacts are larger with the strong crude prices that we've seen. But frankly, when you step back from it, I mean, the earnings are better and the overall financial performance of these projects are better with the higher prices. All of the projects in the area are performing well, and so that really is the impact of this entitlement effect.   

DAN BARCELO: Okay. Thank you.   

HENRY HUBBLE: Yeah.   

OPERATOR: We'll take our next question from Doug Terreson from  Morgan Stanley. Please go ahead.   

DOUG TERRESON, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Good morning, Henry.   

HENRY HUBBLE: Hi, Doug.   

DOUG TERRESON: I want to ask an entitlement question, too.   

HENRY HUBBLE: Alright.   

DOUG TERRESON: And this is really kind of a clarification. When you said -- at least I think you said that production rose about 3% before considering entitlement effects, were you referring to the global base of production rather than specific geographical region, or did you even say that? Could you kind of --   

HENRY HUBBLE: That was a global comment.   

DOUG TERRESON: Okay.   

HENRY HUBBLE: If you look at -- if you look at, you know, on an OEB basis, we were down 2% on the, you know, this year versus last year third quarter.   

DOUG TERRESON: Right.   

HENRY HUBBLE: About 1% of that effect was associated with Venezuela.   

DOUG TERRESON: Okay.   

HENRY HUBBLE: And then there is -- there's about 3.5% that are associated with entitlements, and then you also have some the smaller effects in quotas and divestments. When you take those effects out, that's the 3%, and when you look at -- basically that's coming from the projects and projects that are coming on faster than -- than rates of decline. So that's -- that's what you see there.   

DOUG TERRESON: Okay. And -- and while we're on the subject of Africa, could you provide an update on the profile in Chad, investment profile in Chad and any update that you might have there.   

HENRY HUBBLE: I -- I don't have anything specific on Chad. There's, you know -- we're continuing, we're continuing with our project. Our -- our second -- our 2007 drilling program is basically complete at this point.   

DOUG TERRESON: Okay.   

HENRY HUBBLE: But nothing really specific to highlight there.   

DOUG TERRESON: Okay. Great. Thanks a lot.   

HENRY HUBBLE: Okay.   

OPERATOR: We will take our next question from Nikki Decker from  Bear Stearns. Go ahead.   

NIKKI DECKER, ANALYST, BEAR STEARNS: Good morning, Henry.   

HENRY HUBBLE: Hi, Nikki.   

NIKKI DECKER: Getting back to the Africa volumes --   

HENRY HUBBLE: Yes?   

NIKKI DECKER: You know, taking entitlement effects into account, is it reasonable to expect, though, from this phase that Africa volumes might rise due to new production on block 15 and 17 in Angola and also in Nigeria?   

HENRY HUBBLE: Well, I mean, as we bring on new projects, they do, of course, add to that capacity. But as you go forward and that's really the effect that we're seeing here is that -- at these higher prices, the prices that we're seeing today, you know, I don't know what those future effects are going to be. And, you know, what happens is you -- as you have these higher prices, of course you're recovering your costs faster, you're recovering -- you have more profit barrels to share, but you're doing that with less barrels. And so overall, we're very pleased with the projects and they're performing very well. But you do see less volumes associated with them. Our focus is, though, on the returns associated with those projects. Of course, it means better performance, not just for us but for the host governments, as well. And we've got a good slate of projects and a good pipeline of projects coming along. So we feel confident about the future, but that's the impact that we're seeing in the quarter.   

NIKKI DECKER: Okay. Thanks.   

HENRY HUBBLE: Yep.   

NIKKI DECKER: And for my second question, I'd like to switch to the downstream. Are there -- your competitors have been talking about the difficulty in capturing margins relative to proxies. Your downstream results were somewhat consistent with the industry. Maybe if you could, Henry, quantify the benefit of your feedstock flexibility and perhaps comment on year-over-year marketing results.   

HENRY HUBBLE: Yeah. I mean, if you look at the margin impacts that we had in the quarter, we're down over $600 billion off of, you know, what were very strong third-quarter '06 performance. The bulk of that is in refining, I guess if you look at that it's about 2/3 or a little better, and then the balance was in marketing.   

You know, if I think about our overall capability in this area, though, we have strong margins capture, the programs that we have with -- in particular the molecule management technology that we have to help capture our -- the investments that we've made over many years in high conversion refining capacity allow us to continue to take advantage of the high clean/dirty spreads that are out there and the process, crude processing flexibility that we have. So we're constantly going after new crudes that's are either advantaged for our processing capabilities, and the molecule management technology, both from a planning standpoint as well as real-time operations, that really help us manage on a molecular basis how to maximize profitability in the refining units as well as our chemical plants, when we have those integrated facilities, it's really, we think, a unique advantage in the industry.   

NIKKI DECKER: Okay. That's great. Thanks, Henry.   

HENRY HUBBLE: Thanks.   

OPERATOR: We will take our next question from Doug Leggate with  Citigroup. Please go ahead.   

DOUG LEGGATE, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Thank you, good morning Henry.   

HENRY HUBBLE: Hi Doug.   

DOUG LEGGATE: I'm going to flog this Africa horse a little bit more I'm afraid. When we look at the actual volumes, obviously we're down about 120,000 barrels per day year over year, a little less than that. Oil prices on average are only up $5. Have we -- have we moved out of cost recovery in any significant way year over year in that region?   

HENRY HUBBLE: Yeah. You know, I mean, as you know, they're made up of individual -- both components, cost recovery as well as, you know, profit sharing. And -- and you have a number -- we have -- because we have a number of different projects, they all have different arrangements, have different points of recovery, you know, that effect is going on, and you also have -- you also have just the impacts from the higher prices. So -- so yes, there are impacts that are associated with these entitlements and cost recovery is a piece of that.   

DOUG LEGGATE: So --   

HENRY HUBBLE: Again, you know, again I think the real key here, though, is there's no question that these projects are performing better than -- than certainly when we approved them, better for us and better for the host governments because of the, one, the projects are performing well, they were delivered at lower cost than we originally anticipated, they came in on schedule, and they basically have been performing well, but one of the consequences of higher prices is there are less barrels.   

DOUG LEGGATE: I guess I'll follow on related to that. So if oil prices stayed let's assume at the Q3 average levels, x new projects coming on, we would expect these volumes to remain at that kind of level in Africa?   

HENRY HUBBLE: I mean, you're going to have -- you're going to have continuing impacts, but I'm not going to get into forward projection on what that will be. You know, we'll go through and give an update that -- at our analysts meeting, and that will reflect, you know, another year of higher prices and the impacts associated with that in the projection that we have going forward.   

DOUG LEGGATE: Okay. I guess, a final one from me. And this classifies as my second question. If we look at your capture in the upstream, you always show this chart of realized prices versus your net income per barrel. It did appear to move off the line quite a bit this time, suggesting that something else is going on. You mentioned higher expenses in your -- in the press release.   

Can you maybe just try and quantify if it was that or maybe the lack of property sales, if that was a meaningful issue this quarter. That would help us understand a little bit why that capture rate appears to have deteriorated this quarter.   

HENRY HUBBLE: Yeah. If you -- if you look at the other earnings effects and that's really what can impact that or it also contributes to it. I mean, there were -- the biggest single factor is higher expenses. So it was over half of the total, a lot of that higher, you know, is -- it's both cash and non-cash, but a big piece associated with non-cash costs, associated with the new projects that we start up, so you're seeing higher depreciations associated with those. In terms of the balance, you know, we did see some positive earnings impacts from asset sales in 2006 that were higher than what we had in this quarter. So the absence of those on a relative basis caused some of that decline, and we also had some -- some negative forex effects in there, there's about $80 million associated with that.   

So those -- those were the big factors. But again, you know, as you point out, I mean, if you look at the absolute level of net income per barrel, it's strong. And I think that really is the best reflection of the overall performance of the portfolio.   

When you think about all of the things that go into the quality of the projects, the -- the quality of the project management, the performance of those projects, the cost control, all of that basically ends up being reflected in that very strong net income-per-barrel number that we have in the industry.   

DOUG LEGGATE: Great. Thanks a lot, Henry.   

OPERATOR: We will take our next question from Neil McMahon from Sanford Bernstein. Please go ahead.   

NEIL MCMAHON, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: Good morning, guys.   

HENRY HUBBLE: Hi, Neil.   

NEIL MCMAHON: Just two questions as you allow. The first question really just an update on your Wildcat exploration that's been going on this year. Maybe first on the Columbia well you're drilling in the Caribbean, and secondly, anything further on the Orphan Basin offshore, north of Newfoundland.   

And then for the second question, if you look at your US oil and liquids production, year over year it hasn't gone down very much at all. And I'm wondering if that's due to a reduction in any land sales there, or are you actually doing something more dramatic in terms of investing onshore US?   

HENRY HUBBLE: All right. Let me just first hit the -- in Colombia, the Tayrona block, we're drilling our first well, the Araza1. And really I'd want to refer any other questions to  Petrobras, who's the operator of that.   

The other piece I guess was associated with Orphan. I mean, we're still -- we're still progressing the technical work. We're looking to drill the -- the next well next year. We have -- we have drilled the Great Barasway well there, and we'll just -- we're evaluating that data, and we'll decide what the next prospect will be. Then, you know, if you look at the volumes associated with the US on the year-on-year, basically, you know, it's -- it's, you know, the net impact there is -- has been essentially improved reliability, a piece of that, no big story. Some of that was in -- associated with the Alaska operations, as you may recall. But basically, you know, we -- we have a good continuing work program there, and that's the net effect of it all.   

NEIL MCMAHON: Okay. So it's mainly an Alaska effect, coming back up --   

HENRY HUBBLE: That's -- that's a piece of it, yeah.   

NEIL MCMAHON: Okay.   

HENRY HUBBLE: Yeah.   

OPERATOR: We will take our next question from Michael LaMotte with  JP Morgan. Please go ahead.   

MICHAEL LAMOTTE, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Thanks. Good morning, Henry.   

HENRY HUBBLE: Hi.   

MICHAEL LAMOTTE: I was hoping you could shed a little light on heavy oil and EOR opportunities in the Middle East, in particular the chatter about your involvement in -- in Kuwait on the heavy oil side.   

HENRY HUBBLE: Yes. You know, we're -- I can't say a lot there. We're -- you know, they have a number of heavy oil prospects in Kuwait. There are studies going on. We're very interested in participating in that. We're participating in -- in studies there at this point. But I really, you know, if you have -- if you're looking for more specifics on that, I think KOC is probably the right people to talk to on that one.   

MICHAEL LAMOTTE: Okay. Maybe I can ask the question a little differently then. If I understand the talk around them at this point, there are TSA agreements that would not allow an operator to actually book reserves. In the past you've tended to shy away from that kind of contract. I'm curious as to, you know, maybe sort of the change in the strategic thinking.   

HENRY HUBBLE: There is nothing -- this is -- I have no comment on that. You know, the -- the studies are still underway. There's no -- there have been no decisions made. It's way premature to decide how this is going to be worked. So I just really can't add anything to that. Again, if you want to get some specifics on how KOC's thinking about it, I think that's the right place to start.   

MICHAEL LAMOTTE: Okay. Okay. And then second question, getting back to this entitlement issue, I know it's early coming into year end, but any thought on impact on reserves associated with entitlement changes?   

HENRY HUBBLE: Well, the -- we'll go through and update that again with our -- you know early or first-quarter release on that. So I really -- I can't give you anything at this point. You know, those -- all of the impacts will be reflected in those outlooks.   

MICHAEL LAMOTTE: Okay. Thanks, Henry.   

OPERATOR: We will take our next question from John Herrlin with  Merrill Lynch. Please go ahead.   

HENRY HUBBLE: Hi, John. How you doing?   

JOHN HERRLIN, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: Good. In Europe, your gas sales were kind of low and you mentioned earlier that it was seasonal, and also asset sales. Was it mainly seasonal? Can you give us kind of a split?   

HENRY HUBBLE: Yeah. In Europe the biggest piece was associated with, you know,if you look at the sequential piece, the combined effect was the -- you know, the effect of some net-based client. The higher maintenance divestments were -- were, you know, the next biggest piece, and then there was lower seasonal demand. So if you look at the demand piece, it's about 50 of that.   

JOHN HERRLIN: Okay. Taking that to oil since those volumes were down a bunch, too. Is that also maintenance related or decline?   

HENRY HUBBLE: Well, if you look at -- if you're looking year-on-year or sequentially?   

JOHN HERRLIN: Sequentially in Europe, yeah.   

HENRY HUBBLE: Yeah, okay. We'll look at that. Yeah. It's -- it's basically the bulk of it is field decline there in the period. And you have -- and you have some -- that's a big effect.   

JOHN HERRLIN: Okay.   

HENRY HUBBLE: It's mature area, and that's -- that's the effect you're seeing.   

JOHN HERRLIN: Okay. That's fine. Yeah. Getting back to Kuwait, I'll try the question a different way or a different question I guess.   

HENRY HUBBLE: Okay.   

JOHN HERRLIN: You've had success obviously with Upper Zakum. I'm not familiar with the geology of what you're looking at. Are these carbonates?   

HENRY HUBBLE: I -- you know, they're -- they're heavy oil deposits. I'm not familiar with the specifics of the field there.   

JOHN HERRLIN: Okay. And then revisiting West Africa again, could you -- you probably won't want to do this, but could you perhaps break down the entitlement effects by, you know, EG, Angola, Nigeria, or not possible?   

HENRY HUBBLE: I'm not -- you know, I don't think it's appropriate to break those down.   

JOHN HERRLIN: Okay. All right. That's fine. Thank you, appreciate it.   

HENRY HUBBLE: All right.   

OPERATOR: We will take our next question from Paul Chang with  Lehman Brothers. Please go ahead.   

PAUL CHANG, ANALYST, LEHMAN BROTHERS: Hey, Henry, good morning.   

HENRY HUBBLE: Yes, hi, Paul.   

PAUL CHANG: I have to apologize first because I come in late so you may have already covered them in your prepared remarks. Did you break down what is the effects of tax on inventory or asset sales gain or loss on those items in the third quarter versus the second quarter?   

HENRY HUBBLE: Yeah. No, I haven't. But the -- the forex impacts, you know, if you look at the net impact for the third quarter, they were pretty small. You know, it's like $14 million something in the range, quite small. But there is -- there -- we're naturally hedged. And we see some negative impacts in the upstream. We see positive impacts in downstream and chemicals that basically offset that.   

PAUL CHANG: Right. Can you break down by division then for us?   

HENRY HUBBLE: Upstream is about -- as I mentioned about 80, negative. And then -- and the bulk of the offsetting was in chemicals.   

PAUL CHANG: Right. I'm talking about sequentially from the second quarter level. If the 80 is still a good number --   

HENRY HUBBLE: Yeah, that's pretty close. You know, and the same -- the net effect for total there when you look at it sequentially, there was less offset, not much offset from the downstream in chemicals part of the business. So that kind of carried through to the bottom line.   

PAUL CHANG: So it was about $80 million sequential?   

HENRY HUBBLE: That's correct. That's correct. In total.   

PAUL CHANG: In total.   

HENRY HUBBLE: Right.   

PAUL CHANG: How about any tax adjustment for inventory gain or loss?   

HENRY HUBBLE: No. We're on a LIFO basis and we don't take any -- have any inventory effects during --   

PAUL CHANG: How about the price finalization?   

HENRY HUBBLE: Price finalization, you know, if you look on an absolute basis, we had about $50 million on a -- now, again, talking sequential?   

PAUL CHANG: Yes.   

HENRY HUBBLE: Yeah. So about $50 million in the US on an absolute basis, $65 million total. Then if you look at the delta, you know, it was like $30 million in total.   

PAUL CHANG: I assume that that is a positive, right?   

HENRY HUBBLE: Excuse me. I'm sorry. In the third quarter of '07, the absolute level is all negative, so it's about $65 million negative. If you look at the change, it was positive relative to -- to the prior -- to the second quarter, but quite small.   

PAUL CHANG: Right. And you indicated that one of the reasons about your -- perhaps a little bit lower unit profitability in terms of the capture rate comparing to the third quarter of last year is that you have a lesser after-sales gain. So how big is the after-sales gain on the absolute level?   

HENRY HUBBLE: You know, it's -- I don't have -- I don't have a breakdown on it. The two big factors -- we had in the absence of sales was associated with the Carson Creek and Canada, and then we had some sales in -- in France last year that -- that were -- but I don't have a total for you there. Those were the two that were -- kind of the absence of those two, and basically mature areas.   

PAUL CHANG: Oh, so I understand about last year-- I'm talking about in this year, third quarter -- (inaudible)   

HENRY HUBBLE: Right. In this third quarter we didn't have a whole lot in there that was -- a little bit that we had in the South North Sea sale, associated with gas, and that was it.   

PAUL CHANG: Okay. And the second question would be the Pyon Basin --   

HENRY HUBBLE: Paul, maybe you ought to come back at the end. I that's more than two.   

PAUL CHANG: Okay, will do.   

HENRY HUBBLE: Thanks.   

OPERATOR: As a reminder, if you would to ask a question, press star-one on your touch-tone telephone. The next question is from Mark Gilman from the Benchmark Company. Please go ahead.   

MARK GILMAN, ANALYST, BENCHMARK COMPANY: Hi Henry, good morning.   

HENRY HUBBLE: Hi Mark, how are you?   

MARK GILMAN: Good, thanks you,. ad hopefully you are as well. I wanted to ask about Marimba and the Statfjord Late Life project. My assumption on these projects, Henry, is that we will not see volumes actually rising as a result of these projects, but rather in both cases they represent the ability to forego what would otherwise be declines. Marimba vis-a-vis Kizomba A and Statfjord obviously being the facilities and fields currently in production. Is that an accurate assumption in both cases?   

HENRY HUBBLE: Pretty much. You know, there's -- there's the -- you know, you're basically trying to maintain the capacity full utilization of the facilities that you have there. And so that's what you see from those developments for the most part.   

MARK GILMAN: Okay. And one other one if I could, just one more whack at this entitlement issue from a different angle.   

HENRY HUBBLE: Yes.   

MARK GILMAN: Henry, there are basically two kinds of entitlement issues that impact on reported production. One is the just the simple and rather straight-forward cost recovery issue. The other is a more permanent, in terms of life of field, change in splits associated either with cumulative return or cumulative production thresholds and/or cost recovery factors. I'm assuming that where what we're dealing with here is primarily the latter. And is, therefore, not something that in a different price environment is likely to change as we go forward. Is that assumption accurate?   

HENRY HUBBLE: Well, I'm not going to break out the split for you here. You know, you have both effects, and -- but they are -- they're both in a continuing basis-- and again, it's going to depend on how crude prices evolve from here.   

MARK GILMAN: Okay. Thank you, Henry.   

OPERATOR: We will take our next question from Paul Sankey from  Deutsche Bank. Go ahead.   

PAUL SANKEY, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Hi, Henry.   

HENRY HUBBLE: Hi Paul. I had a three-part Middle East question, but I'm not going to go there on Q&A. Okay.   

PAUL SANKEY: Let's move on to Upper Zakum. You've got pretty significant downtime believe there right now. Could just quantify how long that's going to be out for and what sort of impact that will have on Q4, thanks.   

HENRY HUBBLE: Yeah. I don't have anything right at the tip of my fingers. Let's see if I can get you something on -- on that because I really don't have any specific data on that at this point.   

PAUL SANKEY: But your turnaround there?   

HENRY HUBBLE: You probably ought to ask ZADCO on that.   

PAUL SANKEY: Okay. I'll leave it on that one then, obviously. On the second part, was about startups in Qatar next year. Can you just update us on when you expect those two major projects to be delivering?   

HENRY HUBBLE: Yeah. As we had laid out in our earlier plans, we're expecting those, you know, the startup of the Qatargas II Train 4 in 2008, and the RasGas Train 6 also scheduled for startup in 2008, expecting one about mid-year and the other closer to the end of the year. At the end of the year. It's the same as the F&O.   

PAUL SANKEY: Okay. That's -- that answers that one. Given -- we had a couple of slightly nonanswer there, I'll throw in one final one. Could you quantify the extent to which disposals impacted your downstream numbers? It's notable particularly in Europe, but also to an extent in Asia, huh lower throughputs and sales in both those regions. Thanks.   

HENRY HUBBLE: Yeah. The -- the big impact in Europe is Inglestadt, and both on a on the year-on-year comparisons that you have there. And then, you know, there's ongoing on the product sales. We have ongoing high grading that we've got going on pretty much around the world. A big piece of that happened in Africa, some of South America, but there's also high grading that's going on in the other portfolios, as well. And then of course then you also have impacts associated with turnarounds that are also impacting some of the numbers.   

PAUL SANKEY: Any barrel numbers you can give me on this?   

HENRY HUBBLE: If you look at -- let me just look and see if I've got something here. You know, if you look at the totals for the downstream, we're down on the petroleum product sales, as you know, about 1%, and that basically, you know, if you look at that -- let me see what I've got here. Yeah. Let's see, you've got -- well, I don't have a breakdown by, you know -- basically US, if you look on a third-quarter '06 versus third-quarter '07 throughputwise, of course we were up, and basically that's improved reliability and that was almost all that. Then if you look at the other -- the turnaround impact in Asia-Pacific, that was Singapore and Japan,the total of that was about the level that you see, the $116 million that's in the numbers. So it's -- those were the two impacts there.   

PAUL SANKEY: That's on the throughputs, then we take Inglestadt out of the Europe number?   

HENRY HUBBLE: That's right. That's right.   

PAUL SANKEY: Okay, any help you can give me on the product sales?   

HENRY HUBBLE: And on the product sales, that, again, is -- as I was talking about the divestment, that's -- you know, the big piece of -- I'm just trying to look at if we have anything that splits it. It's basically divestments, the bulk of it is divestments in each of these areas. The same story. And you know, you kind of see it reflected in the numbers in the US, basically down the same direction, and the overall total sales down about the same direction from -- from the throughputs. About down equally.   

PAUL SANKEY: So the underlying market was flat is what you're telling me?   

HENRY HUBBLE: Yeah. If you go back to -- if you're trying to get back to what was the product demand, you know, what we're seeing on a worldwide basis is that we're, you know, we continue to see growth overall, not much down at all from what we have historically seen on a total -- on total global demand basis. Most of that growth is occurring in the Asia PAC area. US is near flat, up a little bit, and, you know, we're seeing -- so there's nothing there that we can really point to as a global demand response. Again, you don't know how high it would be if crude prices weren't this high. But we're not seeing big declines or any -- you know, we're still seeing year-on-year growth and not seeing declines in that rate of growth on a worldwide basis.   

PAUL SANKEY: Sounds like you're predicting $100 oil then, Henry.   

HENRY HUBBLE: I don't know. I can't -- I can't tell you why it's at $90-something today.   

PAUL SANKEY: Okay. Thanks.   

HENRY HUBBLE: All right.   

OPERATOR: We will take our next question from Mark Flannery with  Credit Suisse . Please go   

MARK FLANNERY, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Hi, Henry.   

HENRY HUBBLE: Hi.   

MARK FLANNERY: I have more of a local question about ethanol blending in the US.   

HENRY HUBBLE: Yes?   

MARK FLANNERY: Specifically in the southeast, are you guys getting ready to blend more ethanol into product in the southeast? I'm thinking Florida particularly, from next year, and are you making the necessary infrastructure and terminal investments right now or are you holding back a little bit?   

HENRY HUBBLE: Well, as you know, we're a major blender of ethanol. There are incentives to blend ethanol currently, we're maximizing that. But I'm not going to get into the specific regional investment thoughts that we might have.   

But we're basically meeting the federal requirements, and obviously we've -- you know, we've blended before it was required because we saw economic opportunities there. And -- and we continued to do that. So we'll -- we'll take advantage of the incentives that are there to blend ethanol. But I -- again, not going to get into specific investment plans.   

MARK FLANNERY: Right. Just a quick follow-up on the refining side. When you think about ethanol blending and how it might go in this country, just for the sake of it, say, the donation goes to E10 at some unspecified time in the future, does that impact the way you think about investments in the domestic refining base?   

HENRY HUBBLE: Well, you know, as we look at, you know, if you look at our long-term outlook for demand in the US and actually in OECD in general, our longer term outlook is basically that it's flat. And what you see there is ongoing efficiencies that continue to come in, basically offsetting whatever modest growth there may be in miles driven and vehicle use.   

So as we go forward, we're not seeing a lot of growth in our outlook, so we can continue to focus on economically creeping our capacities, debottlenecking, low-cost conversion ads. That's been part of our base improvement, continuous improvement of our refining facilities. So we're constantly adding capacity through those kind of mechanisms, but we're not seeing a lot of need for grassroots kinds of investment in these mature markets.   

Now in contrast, though, when you move out to Asia-Pacific, China, some of these other areas, you know, and our Fujian province a prime example there where we're investing to meet that growing demand which is substantially what you can meet through the bottlenecking. And of course, you know, in the base we're running our conversion capacity full in all of the regions, and there is incentive to continue to debottleneck that.   

MARK FLANNERY: Right. Thank you very much.   

HENRY HUBBLE: Yep.   

OPERATOR: We will take a follow-up question from Mark Gilman with the Benchmark Company. Please go ahead.   

MARK GILMAN: Henry, I noticed that the volume mix bar in your upstream year-over-year earnings variance is essentially zero.   

HENRY HUBBLE: Yeah.   

MARK GILMAN: The fact that the production is down.   

HENRY HUBBLE: Yes.   

MARK GILMAN: Was the lifting position in this recently completed quarter more favorable than production, and that explains the bar in the chart? Or was there an adverse lifting position in the year-ago period? Can you shed some light on that.   

HENRY HUBBLE: Basically it's -- what you're seeing there is a mix effect, as you point out, there is a positive effect associated with the Sakhalin project where we have the export facilities now. So you have higher realizations associated with that.   

MARK GILMAN: Okay. And one other one if I could. Marimba, offshore Angola. Is that ringed fence with Kiz A in the same PSC, or is it a separate PSC?   

HENRY HUBBLE: It's ring fenced.   

MARK GILMAN: Thank you.   

HENRY HUBBLE: Yep.   

OPERATOR: We will take a follow-up question from Paul Chang with  Lehman Brothers. Please go ahead.   

PAUL CHANG: Henry --   

HENRY HUBBLE: Hey, Paul.   

PAUL CHANG: Nigeria, did the government ever contact you guys about changes in the region or just noise --   

HENRY HUBBLE: No, we have not had any contacts there at this point.   

PAUL CHANG: I see. A final one. The Pyon Basin, where are you in terms of production at this point and what kind of rig program that you have.   

HENRY HUBBLE: It's -- the latest numbers I have, about 50 million cubic feet per day, and of course we have -- we have, our phase one project that we're working for. We've gotten the finding of no significant impact associated with that, so we're basically moving ahead with our development plans there. And expecting that -- that's out in our '08-'09 timeframe basically.   

PAUL CHANG: Are we still looking at 400 million cubic feet for Qatar production by the 2010-2011, even under the to-date gas price?   

HENRY HUBBLE: Well, when you look at the total, you know, we have -- we have multiple phases that gets out -- it's in the '06 F and O. But basically those future phases take us out to 2011 or so, something in that, beyond. Basically get us up to that full potential.   

PAUL CHANG: So the current price structure in the natural gas did not alter your view or your program.   

HENRY HUBBLE: Well, there's infrastructure that's being added there to get the gas out of the region. So that -- that's some of -- that's a short-term phenomenon that you're seeing now.   

PAUL CHANG: Okay. We're good. Thank you.   

OPERATOR: This will conclude today's question-and-answer session. Mr. Hubble, I will turn the conference back over to you for closing comments.   

HENRY HUBBLE: Well, I just want to say thanks to everybody for your questions and for listening in. And look forward to seeing you on the road. Bye.   

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen this will conclude  ExxonMobil's third quarter conference call. We thank you for your participation, and you may disconnect at this time.   

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.   

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.   

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]   

   CO
exxn : Exxon Mobil Corporation
   IN
i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1300003 : Crude Petroleum Extraction | iextra : Natural Gas/Oil Extraction
   NS
c11 : Plans/Strategy | c15 : Performance | ntra : Transcript | c151 : Earnings | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
Voxant, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020071108e3b1001ef
  


 HD
 Q2  2006  Exxon  Mobil Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final  
   WC
7,316 words
   PD
27 July 2006
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.    

   LP
OPERATOR: Good day and welcome to this Exxon Mobil Corporation's second quarter 2006 earnings conference call. [OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS] At this time, for opening remarks I would like to turn the call over to the Vice President of Investor Relations and Secretary, Mr. Henry Hubble. Please go ahead, sir.  

   TD
HENRY HUBBLE, VP OF IR AND SEC., EXXONMOBIL CORPORATION: Thank you and welcome everybody to Exxon Mobil's teleconference and Webcast on our second quarter 2006 financial and operating results. As you're aware from this morning's press release, we've had another strong quarter, as we continue to benefit from the performance of our world-class investments through good operations, production growth, and strong industry conditions. Although, our Company benefits from these conditions, we do recognize the impact today's high energy prices have on consumers and family budgets. Therefore, before I begin and comment on the business line results, I'll share with you some of the milestones that include work we have done that will bring more product to the market and ease supply pressure.  

At this point, I would like to draw your attention to our cautionary statement. Please note that estimates, plans and projections are forward-looking statements. Actual results, including resource recoveries, volume growth and product outcomes could differ materially due to factors I will discuss and factors noted in our SEC filings.  

Please see the factors affecting future results in the Form 8-K we furnished this morning, which are available through the Investor Information section of our Website. Please also see the frequently used terms, the supplement to this morning's 8-K and the 2005 financial and operating review on our Website. This material defines certain financial and operating terms I will use today, shows Exxon Mobil's net interest in specific projects and includes information required by SEC Regulation G.  

Now, I'm pleased to turn your attention to the specific results. Exxon Mobil's second quarter net income and normalized earnings were $10.4 billion, or $1.72 per share. This was a record second quarter and represents an increase of $2.5 billion or 32% versus second quarter 2005 normalized earnings. This performance was driven by strong crude prices and refining margins, as well as by continued focus on operational excellence and cost containment.  

Before discussing the business line details, I'll highlight some of the key milestones that occurred since our last earnings call. Within the upstream, we started operations at the Guntong E gas compression platform in the South China Sea to help meet increase in gas demand in Malaysia. The platform is the first phase of the Guntong hub development. And when combined with the existing Guntong FEED production compression platforms, will have gas handling capacity of more than 800 million cubic feet of gas per day to process production from current and future gas developments offshore Peninsula Malaysia. The Guntong E platform is located approximately 130 miles off the East Coast of Peninsula Malaysia in water depths of 210 feet. And is operated by Exxon Mobil Exploration and Production Malaysia, Incorporated.  

In July, Exxon Mobil, the State of Qatar and Qatar Petroleum announced the launch of the Al Khaleej Gas Phase-2 project. AKG-2 is being developed to supply natural gas to domestic markets, while recovering associated condensate and natural gas liquids for export. Phase 2 start-up is scheduled for late 2009. Phase 1 of Al Khaleej Gas, with a capacity of 750 million cubic feet per day of gas, began production in November 2005. Exxon Mobil has 100% interest in the project.  

The East Area additional oil recovery project, located 17 miles offshore Nigeria, started up in June. Mobil Producing Nigeria is the operator and has a 40% interest. The project involves the reinjection of natural gas to mitigate production decline in East Area reservoirs and increase ultimate oil recovery. It is expected that the project will produce 530 million gross barrels of additional oil reserves and provide a peak volume of 120,000 barrels a day of oil. The development will also further reduce routine flaring at the facilities.  

In the downstream, we completed the transition of our facilities to meet ethanol blending requirements in the U.S. The transition was completed smoothly without any supply disruptions. Similarly, we are pleased with the progress to meet ultra-low sulfur diesel requirements. We completed terminal and pipeline construction projects and began producing ultra-low sulfur diesel from our refineries in the U.S. and Canada. Our plans are on track to meet regulatory deadlines and we do not anticipate any supply disruptions associated with the transition of our remaining facilities.  

In July, we announced plans to construct a new cogeneration unit at the Antwerp integrated refining and chemical complex in Belgium. This unit will have the capability to produce 130 megawatts of power, or the equivalent of electricity to supply a 300,000 Belgian households. It will also decrease carbon dioxide emissions by approximately 200,000 tons per year, or the equivalent of taking about 90,000 cars off the road. Cogeneration, the simultaneous production of electricity and heat or steam, has been a significant factor in improving energy efficiency at Exxon Mobil facilities around the world, while reducing air emissions. Exxon Mobil now has interest in 85 cogeneration facilities in more than 30 locations worldwide.  

We have previously discussed our process of continuously and rigorously assessing our global portfolio of businesses and their opportunities for growth, restructuring, or divestment. In July, we announced plans to divest the Ingolstadt refinery, the Bavarian industrial wholesale business and Esso Bayern, which primarily runs the home heating oil direct business. The change of ownership is expected to be complete by 2007, pending approval from authorities.  

In chemical, there are two milestones I will comment on now. We introduced a line of compounded polypropylene that is used in external and internal automobile applications, such as bumpers and internal trim. These new products compliment our existing polypropylene production lines providing customers with a complete line of products for automotive interior, exterior, and under-the-hood applications. Our ongoing investment in technology and compounding expertise provides us competitive advantage and highlights our commitment to the global automotive market.  

Regarding the Singapore chemical project, we continue to make good progress on our detailed study for a potential world-scale steam cracking complex that would be located at our existing Singapore refining and chemical site. In June, we announced the award of front-end engineering and design contracts or derivative units associated with the project including polyethylene, polypropylene, aromatics extraction, oxoalcohol and specialty elastomers.  

Over the next 10 years, we expect over 50% of key commodity petrochemical demand growth to occur Asia with over a 1/3 in China alone. Exxon Mobil's established world-scale fully integrated refining and chemical facilities in Singapore and Saudi Arabia are well positioned to supply these demands. And this potential second steam cracker complex would further strengthen our advantage in supplying these growing markets.  

Turning now to the business line results, please refer to the earnings reconciliation in the IR supplement. Upstream normalized earnings in the first quarter were $7.1 billion. This represents an increase of $2.2 billion versus the second quarter of 2005. After tax upstream unit earnings were also strong at $18.84 per barrel.  

Worldwide crude realizations were $64.93 per barrel, up $17.77 from second quarter 2005. The higher realizations were responsible for $2.1 billion of the increase in earnings, from the second quarter of 2005. Other items, primarily higher property sales, more than offset an unfavorable change in volume mix. Oil equivalent volumes increased 6% versus the same quarter last year, with increases in Africa and the Middle East more than offsetting natural field declines and divestments in North America and Europe.  

Excluding the impact of divestments and entitlements, production increased 9%. Liquids production increased 230,000 barrels per day, or over 9% versus the same quarter last year. Excluding entitlements and divestments, liquids production increased 14%. The Kazamba B and Erha start-ups and the addition of Upper Zakum were the biggest sources of the additional liquids volumes. gas volumes increased 60 million cubic feet per day, or about 1% versus the second quarter of 2005. Higher production in Qatar was offset by natural field decline and planned maintenance in North America and Europe.  

Turning to the sequential comparison, upstream earnings increased by $750 million versus the first quarter of 2006. Improved realizations were essentially offset by normal seasonal declines in natural gas sales. Other factors including; higher property sales, Canadian tax changes, and lower litigation expenses increased sequential earnings. Liquids production was essentially unchanged from the first quarter of 2006, while gas production was down about 20% due to normal seasonal variations. For further data on regional volumes, please refer to the press release and IR supplement.  

Turning to the downstream. Overall, second quarter downstream normalized earnings of nearly $2.5 billion were up approximately $260 million over the second quarter of 2005. Industry margins accounted for $790 million of the increase, as higher worldwide refining margins more than offset lower marketing margins. The volume mix effect was a negative $350 million due to lower refinery throughput, primarily associated with increased turnaround activity. Other factors, primarily higher turnaround related operating costs and the absence of asset sales, further reduced earnings by $180 million.  

Sequentially, downstream earnings increased by approximately $1.2 billion, primarily due to higher refining margins. Volume mix effects reduced earnings by $110 million, mainly as a result of additional turnaround work that resulted in lower throughput. Other factors reduced earnings by $90 million as higher operating costs, consistent with the additional planned work load, were partially offset by favorable Forex.  

Turning to chemical results. Second quarter normalized earnings were $840 million, up slightly versus the second quarter of 2005. Higher feed stock costs resulted in lower margins that reduced earnings by $160 million. But were more than offset by the impact of higher volumes, lower operating costs, and the absence of unfavorable tax items. Sequentially, chemical earnings decreased by about $110 million. Lower margins reduced earnings by 290 million but were partially offset by favorable mix effect, forex, and the absence of unfavorable tax items. Our near term and long-term outlooks for the chemical business remain strong. We believe our unique business approach, underpinned by our technology leadership, continues to deliver a competitive advantage in this growing business.  

Turning now to the corporate and financing segment. Corporate and financing expenses of approximately $100 million were essentially flat with the second quarter of 2005. The effective tax rate for the second quarter was 44%. Our cash balance was $36.7 billion, and debt was $8.4 billion at the end of the second quarter. The corporation distributed a total of $7.9 billion to shareholders in the second quarter through dividends and share purchases to reduce shares outstanding, an increase of 48%, or $2.6 billion versus the second quarter 2005.  

During the second quarter, Exxon Mobil purchased $6 billion of shares in excess of dilution, thereby reducing the number of shares outstanding by 1.7%. As of the end of the second quarter, our share repurchase program had reduced shares outstanding by 15% since it was started in 2000. As a result of our ongoing financial strength, purchases of shares to reduce shares outstanding will be increased to $7 billion in the third quarter, further demonstrating our commitment to return cash to shareholders.  

CapEx in the second quarter was $4.9 billion, up 360 million from the second quarter of 2005, primarily due to planned upstream activity. Our year to date CapEx is $9.7 billion. Our full-year outlook for CapEx has been increased by $1 billion to $20 billion, reflecting increased drilling and development activity, primarily in Africa, Europe, and the United States.  

Before we begin the question and answer portion of the call, I will summarize a few key factors underpinning our second quarter performance. The record results that we have reported today are the outcome of the strategies that we have shared with you in the past. Our upstream is focused on maximizing profitable production and capturing and investing in projects that deliver superior returns. Our downstream objectives are to maintain best-in-class operations, to provide quality, valued product and services to our customers, while selectively investing to grow returns.  

The chemical business draws on the synergies available through access to advantage feedstocks and integration across Exxon Mobil operations, while selectively investing in growth opportunities. Our strong financial position continues to allow to us pursue an unparalleled capital program, while also providing significant shareholder distributions. That concludes my prepared remarks.  

But before we begin the questions, I would like to address some apparent confusion about the revenue numbers. There's been a U.S. financial accounting standard change, which changed a longstanding industry practice of reporting related party buy/sell transactions. The accounting is now being reported on a net basis with no impact on earnings. The change shows up as a reduction in both revenues and total costs. I'd now be happy to take your questions.  

OPERATOR: Thank you, Mr. Hubble. [OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS] And we'll take our first question from Doug Terreson with Morgan Stanley.  

DOUG TERRESON, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY DEAN WITTER: Good morning and congratulations on your record results today. In E&P, the other factor in relation to the first quarter of 2006 was 710 million, I believe, and that's a number that's even relevant for Exxon Mobil. And so, I wanted to see if you could provide some color and maybe some quantification on the primary components of that figure?  

HENRY HUBBLE: Yes, you're looking at that time sequential comparison?  

DOUG TERRESON: I am.  

HENRY HUBBLE: The biggest piece, as I mentioned, is associated with property sales.  

DOUG TERRESON: Okay.  

HENRY HUBBLE: And there were various sales in there included Four Corners and some others. If you would like more detail on that, we can follow up with you. There was also a favorable tax impact in Canada, 200 million. And then there's the absence of litigation that we had in the first quarter associated with the Grefer case and that was about 160 million.  

DOUG TERRESON: Okay. And one more question. In E&P, it appears that the Gorgon project in Australia may be faced with rising estimates for capital investment and environmental issues. And to my knowledge, Exxon hasn't announced any sales agreement on that project, either. And so, I wanted to see if you could provide an update on the status of that project, as well as any new timetables that may have materialized, if any new timetables have, as it relates to commercialization of that project?  

HENRY HUBBLE: Yes. We continue to work with the operator. As you know, Chevron is operating that one, to progress an environmentally and economically sound project. There was some advice that we're disappointed with from the EPA to the government, and we're appealing that recommendation. And really further questions, I really can't get into the specifics. It's probably better to address that back to the operator.  

DOUG TERRESON: Okay. Thanks a lot and congratulations.  

OPERATOR: And we'll take our next question from Doug Leggate from Citigroup.  

DOUG LEGGATE, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Good try. Good morning, Henry.  

HENRY HUBBLE: Hello, Doug.  

DOUG LEGGATE: A couple of questions on the downstream, please. First of all, the utilization rate on refining was a little lower than I was expecting. Can you quantify the planned versus unplanned downtime and maybe give an outlook for the back half of the year?  

HENRY HUBBLE: Yes, if you look at that time bulk of the impact on the throughputs, it was basically turnaround related. Most of that input, 299 plus, was associated with turnarounds. And then as you look at -- the turnaround work load normally is higher in the first half of the year, and this year was a little higher than normal, and some of it associated with the ultra-low sulfur diesel implementations. If you look at the turnaround work load, it's about 75% complete. So, for this year, so we've seen the bulk of it is behind us.  

DOUG LEGGATE: Okay. That's very helpful. The only follow-up I have is marketing. Can you give us some idea of the marketing delta sequentially on year-over-year, if that's possible?  

HENRY HUBBLE: If you're looking at the delta -- talking volumes or --?  

DOUG LEGGATE: No, just the earnings impact would be fine.  

HENRY HUBBLE: Yes, okay. Well, as we talked about, the bulk of the marketing impact in the year to year numbers is about -- well, on a sequential basis, it was about $60 million in margins. And then quarter on quarter it was about 150, a little more, in margins, down.  

DOUG LEGGATE: Were U.S. and international still positive for the quarter?  

HENRY HUBBLE: In terms of absolute earnings? We don't really get into the specifics on that but if you looked at -- margins in general were down across the world. And really that reflects the lag effects you see from rising crude prices and subsequent feedstocks through the refinery. So, that's what most of that is, is compression due to the rising crude prices.  

DOUG LEGGATE: Great. That's it for me, Henry, thank you.  

OPERATOR: We'll now take our next question from Bruce Lanni with A.G. Edwards.  

BRUCE LANNI, ANALYST, A. G. EDWARDS & SONS, INC.: Congratulations on the great quarter. Just a real -- actually, a question that piggybacks on what Doug was asking on the downstream. Basically I was wondering, could you give some further clarification on the refined product sales numbers? Obviously, they were down year-over-year. And I was looking, throughputs were down, too. So, was most of the decline in product sales due to the lower throughputs year-over-year?  

HENRY HUBBLE: Yes.  

BRUCE LANNI: And was it primarily in distillates rather than gasoline? I'm trying to get a fix on what you're seeing on the gasoline side.  

HENRY HUBBLE: Well, if I look at the overall petroleum product sales, we were down about 2% in total. And if you look at the actual -- and I'm talking sequentially now for first quarter versus second quarter. We're down about 2% overall. The bulk of that associated with the turnaround activities. And if you look at mix, we were actually up some on gasoline, down some on diesel across that time frame. And that's normal seasonal kind of stuff. If you looked at it on a year-to-year basis, we were down about equally, gasoline and heating oil reflecting the turnaround effects.  

BRUCE LANNI: So in the U.S. in particular, what are you witnessing right now as far as the gasoline sales go? Anecdotally, are you seeing relatively strong sales?  

HENRY HUBBLE: Well, if you look a just kind of general question about demands, , it's really hard to get behind what's going on, on a short-term basis because there's a lot of moving around on consumption numbers. But we continue to see demand growth year on year. We're running our capacity full. We're selling everything we can make. And when we step back from it, normally it correlates best with GDP growth. And we see economies are still performing well around the world, and you see the strong margins, which is basically being driven by clean products demand growth and so that's what we're really seeing here.  

BRUCE LANNI: Great. That's exactly what I wanted to know. Again, great quarter.  

OPERATOR: And our next question will come from Robert Kessler with Simmons & Company.  

ROBERT KESSLER, ANALYST, SIMMONS & COMPANY INTERNATIONAL: You've no doubt seen the announcement on Shell's Pearl GTL project this morning and the revised implied cost there. I was wondering if you might provide us with any update you could on the preliminary $7 billion estimate for your own GTL project in that country?  

HENRY HUBBLE: Yes. I don't have -- we're -- we signed the Heads of Agreement in July 2004, as you probably know, for that. Our project is about 154 kbd plant. And we're working with Qatar Petroleum on the -- to finalize the DIPSA associated with it and to complete the other agreements associated with the project. We still have some appraisal well activities that we have to do on that. But we'll be updating the costs as we get closer. But this project is -- the technology we have is a bit unique, too, in that the yields that we get are a lot higher in terms of the distillate yield or the lube base stock, which is one of the advantages of the project we're looking.  

ROBERT KESSLER: I appreciate you still have some more fine-tuning then on the cost estimates but roughly speaking, above or below 2 times the 7 billion?  

HENRY HUBBLE: We're still in a mode of updating that. And I don't have a number to offer you at this time.  

ROBERT KESSLER: Thank you.  

HENRY HUBBLE: Just in general though, obviously, everybody is seeing cost pressures. We're working cost pressures. We work these things hard. We do a lot to offset them. But we're really just not in a position to come back with the number at this point.  

OPERATOR: We'll now move to Mark Flannery with Credit Suisse.  

MARK FLANNERY, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Hi, Henry. Two unrelated questions. First is about the increase in CapEx.  

HENRY HUBBLE: Yes.  

MARK FLANNERY: You seemed to indicate in your prepared remarks that that was all or substantially due to higher activity.  

HENRY HUBBLE: That's right.  

MARK FLANNERY: Is Any of It Due To Higher Costs Or Not?  

HENRY HUBBLE: Well, you have a lot of things -- we have cost pressures just like everybody else has cost pressures, when you look at the pressure on OpEx and other things. But then when you look at those, the primary piece, the bulk of that is associated with drilling activity in Nigeria. We're accelerating, we've worked through some of the issues on Kazamba C and have been able to accelerate that some. We're also have increased drilling in Europe and the U.S. And so when you look at the overall numbers, though, there's still some costs inflation associated with that but it would be less than a 1/3 of what we're seeing there.  

MARK FLANNERY: Okay. Great. The second question is about renewables. There have been various announcements from industry participants about their interest in getting into renewables, be that corn-based ethanol in the States or biodiesel here in Europe. Do you have passion on that? Are you looking at anything? What's your general take on those?  

HENRY HUBBLE: Well most of the biofuels that are out there, in fact, there are very few that are economic without subsidies. And the current generation of technology has limitations due to their costs, when you look at fertilizer requirements, land-use impacts. And so our focus has really been -- you're going to have to do things to reduce those costs. And so we're investing in breakthrough technologies to find transportation fuel options that would successfully meet the supply requirements and demand challenges for the future. Right now the technology that's out there is -- basically requires subsidies for the long haul and we don't think that makes sense to invest in at this point.  

MARK FLANNERY: Great. Thank you.  

HENRY HUBBLE: We're a major buyer and blender of ethanol, so we're using those products and we also blend biodiesel in Europe.  

MARK FLANNERY: Great. Thanks.  

OPERATOR: We'll now move to Jennifer Rowland with J.P. Morgan.  

JENNIFER ROWLAND, ANALYST, J.P. MORGAN: Question on the share buyback program. I know had said you plan on doing 7 billion in the quarter, next quarter. Can you just provide guidance going forward as far as how we should think about the pace of your share buyback program? I know you're obviously committed to increasing it. But didn't know if there were any targets that you have as far as either percentage of cash flow or a goal as for as reducing shares outstanding. Anything you can provide to help us?  

HENRY HUBBLE: There's -- we don't really have any -- we don't have a target object that. We don't really provide forward guidance on it. We'll update you as we're changing it and as we have been. But if you step back and look at how we think about it, we look at -- we're distributing cash to shareholders through dividends and the share repurchases. We tend to think about the dividends in the longer term and think of that more as payout that we want to be able to increase steadily over time. We've had a 10% increase this year. And then on the share buyback, it really is the more flexible component and of course, the growth in it that you've seen is a reflection of the strong cash generation that we continue to deliver.  

JENNIFER ROWLAND: Lastly, on the CapEx, any change to your outlook for '07 to '010 guidance given that you plan on spending 20 billion now in '06?  

HENRY HUBBLE: Not at this point. We will be updating that normally in our analyst meeting. If there were anything else, we'd -- there's a range, of course, in there, even with those numbers because you're going to look at what advances and changes there are to those projects. But we'll be updating that in the March time frame.  

JENNIFER ROWLAND: Thank you.  

OPERATOR: We'll now move to Arjun Murti from Goldman Sachs.  

ARJUN MURTI, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Henry, question on your ultra deep shelf drillng in the Gulf of Mexico. I was just wondering if you have any update related to either Blackbeard West, which has been drilling or any future drilling plans in that area of the world.  

HENRY HUBBLE: Well, our Blackbeard project is continuing to drill. It's a tight hole, so we don't really have any information that I can provide you on it at this point.  

ARJUN MURTI: Do you have follow-up drilling plans, maybe not on that prospect but for other prospects that are firm, or is it contingent on the outcome of that well?  

HENRY HUBBLE: Well, that's the activity that we have there. No other plans at this point, so that's it.  

ARJUN MURTI: That's great. Thank you.  

OPERATOR: We'll now move to Nikki Decker Bear Stearns.  

NIKKI DECKER, ANALYST, BEAR STEARNS: Your capture rate on your U.S. crude realizations relative to the benchmark seems to be higher this quarter than it has in the past. Would that be a reflection of the geographic mix or maybe changes in your portfolio? Could you comment on that?  

HENRY HUBBLE: Well if you look at the totals, on the -- with the numbers I quoted and the $18.84 per barrel and that really reflects similar to the correlations that are based on the rise in the commodity prices. We're seeing that on the overall portfolio, staying is about in line with the things we've provided in the past. In the U.S., I'm not aware of anything that would have shifted that. Again, we look at it on a portfolio basis and we -- there isn't anything I can point to for you there.  

NIKKI DECKER: Okay. Secondly, what did Erha contribute to second quarter production?  

HENRY HUBBLE: Let's see. I don't know if I have that. We may want to take that off-line. I don't really have it. It's currently running about 200,000 barrels a day but I don't know what the actual delta was for the quarter.  

NIKKI DECKER: On which day did that start, Henry?  

HENRY HUBBLE: The date of start-up?  

NIKKI DECKER: Yes.  

HENRY HUBBLE: That was in the -- when was that? Have to check. Again, we can get you that detail off-line, if you want to come back.  

NIKKI DECKER: That's fine. Thank you.  

OPERATOR: We'll now take our next question from Neil McMahon with Bernstein.  

NEIL MCMAHON, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & COMPANY, INC.: Two things. Could you offer some guidance on the U.K. tax rates that I presume you're going to be taking in the third quarter? Seems that some of your competitors have been doing that just to help with earnings. And secondly, maybe you could give an update or when you think wells will be drilled in the [Orephan] Basin, the wildcat exploration wells in the orphan basin and offshore Caribbean Columbia. I'm presuming Madagascar is an '07 well.  

HENRY HUBBLE: If you look at that time U.K. FX, we're still finalizing calculations there, but we estimate that we'll take a one-time charge in the third quarter of $0.01 to $0.02 per share. On the drilling, Orephan will be in the fourth quarter of '06. I'd have to get back to you on some of the other specifics on the --Madagascar I believe is '07 but I'd have to get you -- it is '07.  

NEIL MCMAHON: And on Columbia, is that '07 as well?  

HENRY HUBBLE: Off the top of my head, I don't know. I'd have to get that you.  

NEIL MCMAHON: Okay. That's great.  

OPERATOR: And we'll now move to our next question from Paul Sankey with Deutsche Bank.  

PAUL SANKEY, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK SECURITIES: Henry, with these kind of profits you're going to attract negative attention from Washington D.C. Could you comment generally on the risks that you face from lawmakers, particularly in this election year? And could you comment specifically on the impact of two pieces of legislation that are out there, firstly on price gouging and secondly on LIFO FIFO? Thanks.  

HENRY HUBBLE: As we look at -- the real focus of needing or helping to reduce the pressure that's in the market today is to get additional supplies. And so we look at things, windfall profits and some of the other ideas that have been kicked around that basically are going to reduce the funds available for increasing the supplies. And we're sharing the impacts of the investments that we've been making here to bring supplies on line, which is really going to be the key. Now, there were investigations around price gouging and really nothing that was -- it's hard to define what that means. But there was nothing that they could come back to that really pointed at any issues that certainly we were involved with. And the LIFO FIFO, it's been one of those ideas out there. Certainly, it's been long standing practice, a LIFO industry practice and it's not just an impact on the oil industry. So again, that's one that I don't know where it's going to go but we don't think it's a very good idea.  

PAUL SANKEY: You're not taking any provisions for these risks? You must be feeling the likelihood of actual action is quite slim.  

HENRY HUBBLE: You've got to be able to estimate what they are in order to take them, and we can't do that.  

PAUL SANKEY: Okay. Fair enough. Thanks.  

OPERATOR: And we'll take our next question from Paul Cheng with Lehman Brothers.  

PAUL CHENG, ANALYST, LEHMAN BROTHERS: Two questions. One, sequentially, from the first to the second quarter, are there any baked in due to the price finalization inventory gain or loss or FX change?  

HENRY HUBBLE: Yes, if you look at the price finalization impacts, the absolute numbers in the second quarter, basically we had 42 -- well, 95 million overall, and that was split about 50/50 between the U.S. and non-U.S on an absolute. If you look at the comparison quarter on quarter, it was about $50 million negative with most of that in non-U.S.  

PAUL CHENG: Okay. How about inventory and also FX?  

HENRY HUBBLE: We don't take any -- the only adjustment we have on inventory comes at the end of the year. And so there's no LIFO effects in these kinds of numbers. If you look at the Forex, we had quarter versus quarter, it was about $41 million positive - 73 of that positive in the downstream and about 50 million negative in the upstream.  

PAUL CHENG: Perfect. The second question is that, we have heard from some of your competitors was talking about they have seen signs of slowdown in the cost pressure for the upstream area in other area. Henry, wondering if you have anything you can share with us? Have you guys seen the slowdown in the cost pressure, or still right what they have been?  

HENRY HUBBLE: As you know, this is an area where we work very hard through existing contracting strategies and other things, technology to reduce the impacts. And we do an awful lot to offset these pressures. And frankly, things are still high and the pressures are still out there. But we've been successful in offsetting and continue -- if I look at overall OpEx, we have self-help kinds of improvements, other things that have allowed us to offset inflation n our project management. We're doing a lot of things to mitigate the cost pressures here. But rate of acceleration or deceleration is hard to say. It may be moderating a bit.  

PAUL CHENG: Very good. Thank you.  

OPERATOR: We'll now move to our next question from Daniel Barcelo of Bank of America.  

DANIEL BARCELO, ANALYST, BANK OF AMERICA: A question on gasoline, if I could. You mentioned you are one of the larger handlers of ethanol. There's a lot of expectations for supply to increase almost by 30% over the next year or so. How advantage positioned are you logistically to take advantage of that arbitrage, if indeed the ethanol is advantageous to gasoline? And then also, as it relates to gasoline, sulfur credits are also kind of running out. How advantaged are you in that position also to take effect of that?  

HENRY HUBBLE: Well, we're generally buying on a delivered basis for the ethanol. And we're one of the largest blenders of it. So to the extent -- and we've had a long history actually of blending ethanol, when it's been advantaged. And so we end up taking advantage of that as it presents itself. And I don't see -- but I don't see any particular advantage that I would say we have over industry. And then we're in good shape on gasoline sulfur, and we're in good shape on the ultra-low sulfur diesel that's coming. So, I don't see any issues on that front.  

DANIEL BARCELO: Okay. Thanks. And then if I could, on production, it was very strong, even if you exclude Upper Zakum year-over-year.  

HENRY HUBBLE: Yes, yes.  

DANIEL BARCELO: Just in terms of like the start-ups, I don't know if you could provide any sort of update from the February meetings. I know you had seven to eight scheduled for this year. How is rig covered for this year and next and going next year? Do you have any color on that?  

HENRY HUBBLE: If you look at the project start-ups, it's been a very good list. We're still benefiting of course, year on year with Kazamba B, AKG-1, [Ross Gas Train 4], Erha start up this year, Bongo, Yoho, ACG, [Benefis] coming in, [Soklan 1]. So we've add strong set of projects that are all contributing. And if we look ahead, we've got a great portfolio. The only one that we have right now that's slipped some is on Thunderhorse and I think you've heard something about that already. It's probably best to talk to the operator about it.  

DANIEL BARCELO: Okay. Thank you.  

OPERATOR: Our next question will come from Mark Gilman with the Benchmark Company.  

MARK GILMAN, ANALYST, BENCHMARK CAPITAL: A couple things if I could. Did I infer from your prior comments that the asset sale gains on an absolute basis in the second quarter were 350 million or more and primarily U.S. E&P?  

HENRY HUBBLE: It was -- that was -- I was just giving some pieces of the total. There are ups and downs and other factors.  

MARK GILMAN: Well, let me ask specifically, what were the asset sale gains in the second quarter and where were they located segment-wise?  

HENRY HUBBLE: Let me look here, see if I got some information four. Just looking for the data, you can call us for details on that if you would like to go through specifics. The the big piece, as I said was we had a number of various sales in U.S. and other, outside the U.S. And Four Corners was one of the big pieces. And we can get you more specifics. There were a number of them.  

MARK GILMAN: Okay. I'll follow up off-line. Secondly, tax rate dropped down to 44.2%. I assume that part of that was the Canadian deferred tax adjustment, which I would appreciate if you could quantify. Is there anything else other than change in mix effects that's responsible for moving it down to the 44.2?  

HENRY HUBBLE: Well, it's kind of in line with the guidance that we've provided. There are a lot of factors that affect the tax rate and it's difficult to project exactly what those impact will be going into the quarter. I had mentioned that Canadian was about 200 million and that is a piece of it. But it is in line with the guidance -- we're expecting about this same level going forward.  

MARK GILMAN: The 44%.  

HENRY HUBBLE: Yes. About.  

MARK GILMAN: The 200 million on Canada you said was an upstream number, I believe. Isn't there a downstream piece also?  

HENRY HUBBLE: No, it was -- the bulk of it is upstream but that's about the total on it.  

MARK GILMAN: In the release you talk about new project contributions of 243,000 a day in the second quarter.  

HENRY HUBBLE: Yes.  

MARK GILMAN: That relates to projects over what period of time, Henry?  

HENRY HUBBLE: That's a net number. Of course, you have declines in there, you have maintenance in there, you have a number of different factors, so that's the net positive that comes from all of that. So again, we can go through the bridge with you off line, but that's the net.  

MARK GILMAN: Okay. One final one for me. If there were a front end payment on the Upper Zakum entry would that be included in either your prior or your upper revised capital estimate?  

HENRY HUBBLE: It's in our capital expenditures, yes.  

MARK GILMAN: Okay. Thank you.  

OPERATOR: And we'll go next to John Herrlin with Merrill Lynch.  

JOHN HERRLIN, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: Hi. Just two quick upstream ones. Could you repeat the current production on Erha again? It sounded like you said 200,000 barrels a day Henry but I thought it was only supposed to be producing 190.  

HENRY HUBBLE: That's about what it's at right now. It's about at the -- above -- actually above the expected volumes.  

JOHN HERRLIN: And does that include the north satellite, or --?  

HENRY HUBBLE: No. It's been performing very well.  

JOHN HERRLIN: Obviously.  

HENRY HUBBLE: We're real pleased.  

JOHN HERRLIN: Next one for me is on U.K. gas. Even for seasonality and maintenance, it looked a little bit lower than in past years. So is that normal field declines, asset rationalization, what's going on there?  

HENRY HUBBLE: There was just some demand impact associated, weather-related impacts year on -- quarter on quarter, for the two years. And of course, you also have planned maintenance. It's a little higher than it was last year right now or in the second quarter.  

JOHN HERRLIN: And last one for me. No issues getting equipment or anything for your upstream projects?  

HENRY HUBBLE: We continue to work that. And we have not had delay anything that I can point to because of lack of availability but does it impact forward schedules, as you're trying to get access. So, that's really how we're working it through but I can't point to anything that's a significant -- that's moving out of our schedule because of those issues.  

JOHN HERRLIN: Great. Thank you, Henry.  

OPERATOR: Mr. Hubble, at this time there are no further questions. I will turn it back over to you for any closing remarks.  

HENRY HUBBLE: Yes, thank you. Just before we end the call, I'd like to summarize a few main points. Exxon Mobil remains committed to providing product to the market in a safely, reliably, efficiently and responsibly. As you can see from the results announced today, we're delivering on the commitments to our shareholders, customers, employees, and the communities in which we operate. We understand that this is important role entrusted to us by millions of people around the globe who rely on this supply every day. And we believe that our strategies and strengths will help us continue to deliver on that promise. I'd like to thank you for participating in the call.  

OPERATOR: And that does conclude the conference for today. Thank you for your participation, and have a great day.  

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]  

   CO
exxn : Exxon Mobil Corporation
   IN
i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1300003 : Crude Petroleum Extraction | iextra : Natural Gas/Oil Extraction
   NS
c15 : Performance | c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
Voxant, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020060810e27r001xi
  


 HD
 Q3  2003  Exxon  Mobil Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final  
   WC
12,456 words
   PD
30 October 2003
   SN
FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
(c) Copyright 2003 CCBN and FDCH e-Media.  

   LP
OPERATOR: Good day and welcome to the Exxon Mobil Corporation third quarter 2003 earnings conference call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time, for opening remarks I would like to turn the call over to the Vice President of Investor Relations, Mr. Pat Mulva. Please go ahead, sir.  

   TD
PATRICK MULVA, VP, INVESTOR RELATIONS, EXXON MOBIL CORPORATION: Welcome to Exxon Mobil's teleconference and webcast on third quarter 2003 financial and operating results. Please note that the estimates, the plans and other comments I make today about future events, conditions or results are forward-looking statements. Actual results could differ materially due to factors I discuss and factors noted in our SEC filings. In particular, these factors affecting future results in Item 1 of our latest 10-K and the Form 8-K we furnished this morning, which are available through our website. I also refer you to the frequently used terms on our website and the supplemental material included in this morning's 8-K, which defines certain financial and operating terms I will use today and includes information required by SEC Regulation G.  

Exxon Mobil's third quarter income was $3.7 billion, or 55 cents per share. Our September year-to-date income of $14.9 billion is a record and more than double our income for the same period last year. We continued to benefit from strong industry conditions, and our ongoing business improvement initiatives. Third quarter earnings improved by more than $1 billion, or 38% compared to the same period last year. This is the company's second highest third quarter result ever. We continue to achieve team milestones in the planning, development and implementation of major upstream projects an in our downstream and our chemicals businesses.  

Now, beginning with the upstream, earlier this month we signed the heads of agreement with Qatar Petroleum for the largest announced LNG project. The two trains to be developed under this agreement will have a combined capacity of 15.6 million tons per annum, or about 2 billion cubic feet per day of natural gas production to meet demand in the United States. This brings the total existing and planned LNG capacity in our partnership with the the Qataris to 55 million tons per annum.  

The tension leg platform for the $3.4 billion Kasamba A (ph) development arrived in Angola in late September. First oil for this project is scheduled for 2004 and is expected to recover approximately 1 billion barrels of liquids at a peak production of 250,000 barrels per day. Construction started earlier this year on Kasamba B (ph) development and planning is underway for Kasamba C (ph) .  

Also in West Africa we inaugurated the Chad/Cameroon oil development and pipeline project. The pipeline construction and fill operations were completed one year ahead of schedule, and the first cargo was loaded in early October. Current production is more than 100,000 barrels per day, and full production capacity of 225,000 barrels per day is expected in early 2004. Development of West Africa resources will come from the ongoing success of our our exploration program. The total number of announced deep water discoveries in West Africa has grown to 41. The company's resource base in Angola alone is now estimated at more than 10.5 billion oil equivalent barrels.  

In Russia significant progress has been made on Phase 1 of the Sakhalin-1 project with the award of contracts for the construction of the crude oil terminal. We also commenced our extended reach drilling program at Chivo (ph) using the world's largest land-based drilling rig. Wells drilled from the shoreline to the offshore Chivo and Adopto (ph) fields will have a reach of up to 11 kilometers. In the downstream, we had a solid refinery reliability performance and continue to add to the list of auto manufacturers using our industry leading Mobil 1 as factory fill engine oil.  

In addition, we continued to make progress on our focused market offering in our retail network. We recently announced the back cord (ph) alliance with the leading supermarket chain in Singapore. And in the United States our On The Run convenience store chain was named 2003 Convenience Store Chain of the Year by Convenience Store Decisions Magazine.  

Now, let me turn to some of the business line results. Third quarter upstream earnings were $2.7 billion, and that's up $210 million from the third quarter of 2002. Higher liquids and natural gas prices added $650 million, but this was partially offset by the impact of lower natural gas volumes. Looking sequentially, upstream earnings were down $140 million. Higher prices contributed $120 million to earnings, but this is more than offset by the effects of seasonally lower natural gas volumes.  

Turning to volumes. For the first nine months of 2003, producible volumes on an oil equivalent basis increased 1% in line with our expectations as we continued to progress our broad-range of projects. These results exclude the effects of operational outages in the North Sea and West Africa, as well as the national strike in Venezuela. Actual production, including these impacts, was down 1%. Liquid volumes for the third quarter were up by 1% versus third quarter 2002, and were about flat sequentially. The strong contribution of new projects is particularly evident in Africa where volumes were up nearly 30% in the quarter-on-quarter comparison and up 15% sequentially.  

Natural gas lines were down by about 10% in both comparison periods. Gas volumes reflect the impact of lower demand and the impact of work programs in the quarter-on-quarter comparison. Sequentially, lower seasonal demand was the primary driver for the decrease. On an oil equivalent basis, total actual production in the third quarter was down by 3%, versus the same quarter of 2002, and 4% versus the second quarter of 2003. We've provided you with data on regional volumes in the press release, and in our IR supplement.  

Let me now outline the major volume impacts for the quarter. Starting first with liquids. In the more mature basins of North America, Europe, and Asia-Pacific, liquids volumes increased 220,000 barrels per day from work programs and project investments quarter on quarter. This increase was more than offset by expected field decline. Operational outages in the North Sea and Africa reduced volumes by 50,000 barrels per day versus the third quarter of 2002. As we've already mentioned, the strong growth in Africa is evident in both comparison periods.  

New projects and work programs added nearly 170,000 barrels per day, versus third quarter of last year, and 70,000 barrels per day sequentially. Gross peak production of recent program startups is projected to be more than 100,000 barrels per day for the southern area expansion project in equatorial Ganay (ph) and 225,000 barrels per day for Chad/Cameroon. Overall, strong growth in Africa more than offset net decline in the mature areas and impacts due to operational outages with liquids volumes up 1% versus the third quarter of 2002.  

Now looking at natural gas. In the sequential comparison, natural gas volumes were down by 11%, primarily due to lower demand in Europe of more than 800 million cubic feet per day. The outage at Brent reduced volumes by 60 million cubic feet per day. Natural gas volumes were down by 10% versus the third quarter of 2002. The impact of work programs and project investment did not fully offset expected fuel decline. Lower demand in Europe and Asia-Pacific reduced volumes by 290 million cubic feet per day. The outage at Brent reduced volumes by a total of 60 million cubic feet per day. Entitlement effects, primarily in Asia-Pacific, reduced volumes by another 120 million cubic feet per day.  

The industry continues to face pressure on natural gas volumes in North America due to normal field decline and limited resource opportunities. Our field decline rates are in line with expectations. Our active work program investment in North America will continue to be targeted at profitable opportunities; but as we previously stated, we do not expect it to fully offset field decline in the near term. We are a leading supplier of natural gas in North America and are taking active steps to provide new supplies from projects such as Qatar LNG; the McKenzie (ph) Delta; and longer term, the Alaska North Slope pipeline.  

Upstream Capex for the third quarter was $3 billion, and that's up 11% from the third quarter of 2002. Our investment for the first nine months of 2003, of $8.7 billion, is 16% higher than the same period last year, reflecting the ramp-up of key projects in West Africa, Qatar, Russia and the Caspian. The progress and cost of these projects continue to be on plan.  

As you know, the upstream business is capital intensive and long term in nature. Our focus on capital discipline is even more important as we invest in our business at unprecedented levels. Careful stewardship of shareholder value means the same rigorous approach to all investment decisions.  

Looking next at the downstream. Third quarter earnings for the downstream were $911 million, nearly $800 million higher than the third quarter of 2002. Late in the quarter refining margins recovered from very weak July to add $610 million to earnings. Stronger quarter-on-quarter marketing margins added $100 million. Favorable foreign exchange effects and gains from refinery reliability accounted for the majority of the remaining positive variance. Sequentially, earnings decreased by $235 million. Marketing margins, which reached a lull for the year in August before rebounding in September, reduced earnings by $250 million. Refining margins, including the negative price finalization effects of $150 million reduced earnings by $70 million. Stronger refinery reliability favorably impacted earnings by more than $70 million.  

In the United States, downstream earnings of $371 million were up about $330 million versus the same period last year. Stronger refining margins, which contributed $340 million, account for nearly all the change. U.S. earnings were down $50 million versus the second quarter of 2003, primarily due to lower marketing margins. Outside the United States, third quarter earnings improved versus last year by about $460 million. Relative improvement in European and Asian refining margins added $270 million and marketing margins add another $60 million.  

Favorable foreign exchange effects and gains from improved refinery reliability also contributed to the positive results. Sequentially, non-U.S. earnings were down about $190 million. Refinery reliability and lower turnaround activity all contributed favorably to the results. However, these factors were not enough to offset a $200 million decline in marketing margins and a $90 million reduction in refining margins. Overall, third quarter 2003 downstream conditions were much stronger than the third quarter of 2002. Stronger refining and marketing margins contributed over $700 million in earnings increase. In the sequentially comparison, refining margins were weak at the start of the quarter and marketing margins did not improve until September. Positive benefits from strong refinery operations helped offset this impact. Looking briefly at our overall activities in the downstream operations, low sulfur motor fuels investments and refinery turnaround activities are proceeding according to our plans.  

Looking next at at chemicals. Chemicals earnings of $230 million were about $120 million lower than the same quarter last year. Lower margins from higher feed stock costs outside the United States reduced earnings by $100 million. Higher operating costs, primarily due to an increase in turnaround activity, was partially offset by about $50 million in foreign exchange gains. Sequentially, chemical earnings declined by $210 million from the second quarter. Weaker margins were partially offset by the positive effects of sales gains and product sales mix. Prime product sales rebounded 5% to just under 6.7 million tons. Earnings declined by $130 million in the United States and we're essentially unchanged for the non-U.S. chemical businesses versus the third quarter of 2002.  

Favorable foreign exchange and volume effects offset margin declines outside the United States. Sequentially. earnings declined by about $100 million each for both the U.S. and non-U.S. businesses. The decline was due to lower margins, partially offset by the positive effect of increased higher margin sales volumes. Corporate and financing expenses totaled $193 million for the quarter. This quarter's expenses were about $150 million higher than the same period last year due to the absence of foreign exchange gains and higher U.S. pension expense. Third quarter expenses were $60 million less than the second quarter primarily due to lower foreign exchange effects. Our total Capex for the third quarter was $3.8 billion, and this brings our September year-to-date total Capex to $11.2 billion. The effective tax rate for the third quarter was 40%.  

Exxon Mobil's balance sheet remains strong. At the end of the third quarter our cash balance was $11 billion and debt was $9.6 billion. During the quarter, we purchased 46 million shares of our common stock for the treasury at a gross cost of $1.7 billion. These purchases were to reduce the common stock outstanding and offset the dilution associated with benefit plans. This represents a 50% increase in the rate of share buyback, net of dilution, over both the first and second quarters of this year. Our rate of share buybacks in October is consistent with the third quarter.  

In addition, during the third quarter, we made contributions to our U.S. pension plan of about $1.8 billion. This brings total year-to-date worldwide contributions to about $2.5 billion dollars and completes U.S. funding requirements for 2003.  

Looking ahead to the fourth quarter, we reconfirm our previous guidance on corporate and financing expenses at a range of $175 million to $225 million. In addition, our fourth quarter 2002 downstream results included LIFO inventory gains of about $200 million. We do not expect LIFO effects to be a significant factor in our fourth quarter earnings this year.  

In summary, we achieved strong third quarter results across all the business lines. Our focus is to maintain industry leading operational excellence and return. Our disciplined investment philosophy continues to deliver on a strong portfolio of investment opportunities. At the same time, our dividend, combined with a consistently strong share buyback program, delivers an attractive yield to our shareholders. That concludes my remarks, and I'll be glad to take any questions you might have.  

OPERATOR: Thank you, sir. At this time, ladies and gentlemen, if you would like to ask a question, please press the star key followed by the digit 1 on your touch-tone telephone. If you're using a speakerphone for today's conference, please make sure the mute function is turned off in order for your signal to reach our equipment. Once again, if you would like to ask a question at this time, please press star 1. We'll take today's first question from Paul Tingg with UBS.  

PAUL TING, UBS: Good morning. I have two questions, please. First of all, the production number, obviously actual production number came in slightly below expectation. Can you talk about your expectation looking forward to fourth quarter and 2004? In particular, do you view the $11 billion or thereabouts of upstream Capex sufficient to warranty an expectation of 3% capacity growth into the future? That's the first question. Second, is that your Asian refining throughput is down 5% versus some of your competitors, which shows increase in the Asian refining throughput. Is there any way you can explain what maybe some of the causes might be behind the discrepancies? Thank you.  

PATRICK MULVA: Sure, Paul. Let me first answer your Asian refinery throughput. In fact, what you're seeing in the overall numbers is the moth-balling of the Allied (ph) refinery in Australia. During the quarter our actual refinery throughputs increased with the more favorable margins, the single biggest impact is the moth-balling of Allied.  

PAUL TING: How much is is that? Can you quantify that, Pat?  

PATRICK MULVA: It's about 65,000 barrels a day.  

PAUL TING: Okay.  

PATRICK MULVA: Let me take the second question. As you know, we here at Exxon Mobil don't really provide specific guidance on quarterly volumes, but let me do talk about our view around the overall projects that we're working on and, as you said, our $11 billion investment. We're very confident, Paul, that the Capex program that we have underway and that the plans that we talked about for 2004, '5, and '6 are going to provide the kinds of additions to capacity that we've talked about in the past. We have always commented about the fact that as we look to 2003 and 2004, our profile on capacity adds was relatively flat, but that we would begin to see the impact of our major projects coming on as we got toward the middle and latter part of the decade. You can see some of the early indications, for example, with our Africa volumes as those projects are beginning to ramp up. So from a guidance standpoint, if you will, our Capex program remains unchanged as we look forward and remain confident that these projects that we've been talking about, particularly with the impact in the mid to the latter part of the decade, are well in our plans and we're progressing, as I already commented, on plan, on budget.  

PAUL TING: Thanks, Pat.  

PATRICK MULVA: You bet.  

OPERATOR: We'll take our next question from Tyler Dann with Banc of America.  

TYLER DANN II, BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES: Hi, Pat, how are you?  

PATRICK MULVA: Hi, Tyler.  

TYLER DANN II: Okay. The question I had first off was: Were there -- could you specify where -- whether there were any FX gains or losses booked during the quarter and what those were? Secondly, could you please quantify the impact of asset sales in the North American natural gas production numbers that you showed? And then, I guess, more of a rhetorical question or philosophical question, the softness that you saw in demand, which was also evident in some numbers that were put up by a competitor of yours in European natural gas volumes, does that tend to be worrisome at all, or what extraordinary factors would you cite that depressed the demand and leaves you to remain convinced that Europe would be an attractive market for your future LNG volumes?  

PATRICK MULVA: Oky, Tyler, let me take the first question on 4X and I'll talk about it from a quarter-on-quarter comparison basis, if that's all right with you, or we can look at it sequentially, either way. If you look at the bottom line results for Exxon Mobil comparing the third quarter of 2002 to the third quarter 2003, 4X effects were in the range of about a negative $25 million, relatively small. Anad, of course, they're depending upon the business line o very minor impact. And sequentially 2Q to 3Q in 2003, basically, again no real impacts on 4X.  

The second question you had had to do with impact on volumes in North America, I think, due to any asset sales. And really minimal to no impact on volumes at all in North America.  

TYLER DANN II: Okay, thanks.  

PATRICK MULVA: Let me talk a little bit about the demand situation in Europe. And first off, when you look at our volumes in particular in Europe in the third quarter versus the second quarter, essentially all of that production delta is due to demand. But I would tell you that --  

TYLER DANN II: I would say that's Granigan (ph), right, by and large?  

PATRICK MULVA: Right. Granigan (ph) is a major producer for us as well as the North Sea. I mean, it's basically all of our European -- our production, of course, the fields in Germany as well. But from a philosophical standpoint, I guess Tyler, if you take a look at our supply/demand outlook for Europe that we discussed with the community in our natural gas presentation, you look at our view of the demand for natural gas in Europe, and for that matter all around the world, we remain very bullish about the fact that the demand is there and the opportunity is there for Exxon Mobil so that in the very short term, really we're seeing weather impacts. It's a little bit warmer and that's what's driving it. But longer term, with our investments in Granigan (ph), with our Qatar LNG project that we announced here a year or so ago with LNG coming into the U.K. and Europe. And our outlook for demand in Europe, we remain just as bullish as we've been in the past about those opportunities for us.  

TYLER DANN II: Thanks very much.  

OPERATOR: We'll take our next question from Steven Pfeifer with Merrill Lynch.  

STEVEN A. PFEIFER, MERRILL LYNCH: Hi guys, just three quickies, I hope. Pat, could you talk a little bit about demand? Usually it seems like we have demand effects on gas through the winter months where it's warmer than normal, but you were talking July through September. I'm wondering, kind of what really happened with weather? Is there something else going on there, one? And then two, could you talk a little bit more about the U.S. -- we had a hard time reconciling and you had mentioned marketing was a minus 50 from 2Q to 3Q, and in the aggregate you mentioned some price utilization effects. If you could -- if you mentioned I missed it. If you could just walk through what the price utilization effects were in the U.S. and international, and if there were any LIFO effects. And then, lastly, I'm going to ask this question just because there's so much focus on it I suppose. But, obviously a lot of commentary in the press about UGOS (ph). And if you could -- I know you, obviously, won't make a specific comment, but if you could talk a bit about the appetite for Exxon Mobil in Russia, what kind of projects would be of interest. Because to read the press, Exxon Mobil's about to buy a 40% stake in UGOS (ph) and perhaps that's changed today, but if you could just update us on that. Thanks.  

PATRICK MULVA: Sure. Let me address first the demand effects on European gas volumes in particular. And really what we're seeing is the impact of the warmer summer. And you're absolutely right, as we go into the winter time period we'll -- assuming that it gets a little colder over there, we will see an impact on further demands or higher production. But when you do the comparison for the third quarter in Europe, it is the impact of the warmer summer, if you look third quarter of 2002 versus 2003. So I mean nothing unusual other than the weather and the timing on purchases from -- as customers fill their storage capacity.  

Let me talk a little bit about the downstream, and I know it is a pretty broad number of questions here. So I'll kind of go through the downstream, and if I miss any of the questions you have, just let me know. First, let me talk about our overall downstream results on the third quarter versus the second quarter. And I commented in particular about our marketing margins, some negative effect of around $250 million. What we saw in that quarter was a very, very weak marketing margins in the first two months of the quarter and then they strengthened in September. And, in fact, if you look at a composite marketing margin for us kind of all around the world, our marketing margins when you compare the quarters in that time period, it's down like 75 cents a barrel over that time period.  

Again, I think you asked about price finalization. If you look at third quarter versus second quarter, our price finalization impact on our refining margins was about $150 million quarter on quarter. And you asked if there were any LIFO effects in the third quarter of 2003, and there were no LIFO effects in third quarter 2003. I think --  

STEVEN A. PFEIFER: Pat, just on the price finalization, $150 million worldwide, could you give us U.S. versus international?  

PATRICK MULVA: I think almost all of that is in the United States out of the some $150 million over -- about $100 million of it is in the U.S. and the balance is spread around the rest of the world.  

STEVEN A. PFEIFER: Perfect.  

PATRICK MULVA: Last question, I will not make any comments on specifics in Russia other than just to reiterate, I think you can see the progress we're making in Sakhalin and how optimistic we are about the Sakhalin project. Other than that I really don't have any other comments about Russia.  

STEVEN A. PFEIFER: All right, thank you, Pat.  

PATRICK MULVA: Okay.  

OPERATOR: We'll take our next question from Arjun Murti from Goldman Sachs.  

ARJUN N. MURTI, GOLDMAN SACHS: Thanks. Hey, Pat, any update from the timing of the McKenzie (ph) Delta gas coming onstream, and any update on the three LNG terminals I believe you're looking at in the Gulf Coast area, the timing or status of those? Thank you.  

PATRICK MULVA: Sure, Arjun. On Mac Delta project, of course, we're moving toward an additional work being done on the submission that we need to make to the federal government in Canada, and that work seems to be progressing really quite well. We'll continue to look to the McKenzie (ph) Delta coming online as we talked about in the past in kind of the 2008 time period. So really no change on the McKenzie (ph) Delta other than the continued progress that is being made for the submission to the federal government there.  

With regard to the LNG trains, of course, I already commented but, again, we're very pleased with the signing with the Qataris for the major project that we will be building with the Qataris to bring LNG into the United States, a so very large milestone for us that we're very pleased about. I know you asked specifically about the LNG terminals in the United States. We continue to progress all three of the options that we talked about in the past. We're optimistic about hearing something here in the near term with regard to Mobile Bay. Again, all progressing quite well.  

ARJUN N. MURTI: And, Pat, just one follow-up on North America. You mentioned field declines are as expected and given the maturity and scarcity of resource opportunities, should we just assume your Capex will also decline in the U.S. by commensurate amounts?  

PATRICK MULVA: I'm not sure what a commensurate amount would be, Arjun, other than what I tell you is what we're doing is taking a good look at the profitability of that whole program. And I think you'll continue to see us invest in those profitable opportunities for North American gas. But as I said, I mean, for North America, if we look out over the longer term, the big dollars that will be sent for North America are going to be the Mac Delta, the LNG project, Sable and longer term the and Alaska Pipeline.  

ARJUN N. MURTI: And, I guess if there's a gap in your production in terms of letting the near term decline and waiting for the long-term projects in LNG to comeon, that that's fine with Exxon, given your focus on profitability?  

PATRICK MULVA: Always profitable. That's the bottom at Exxon Mobil. If it's profitable we're going to do it, but if it's not, that's right, no change.  

ARJUN N. MURTI: Thank you.  

PATRICK MULVA: You bet, Arjun.  

OPERATOR: We'll take our next question from Fred Leuffer with Bear, Stearns.  

FREDERICK P. LEUFFER, BEAR, STEARNS: Hi, Pat, how you doing?  

PATRICK MULVA: Hi, Fred.  

FREDERICK P. LEUFFER: Kind of following on with North American gas, specifically in the United States, I was surprised by the steepness of the decline in U.S. gas volumes. I think they were down 8% quarter-to-quarter. What do you see going forward here? I mean, that's not a typical decline rate, right? And are there any other factors, other than natural decline, that are affecting U.S. gas production?  

PATRICK MULVA: Well, the short answer is no. No other factors. From a decline rate standpoint, though, as we talked about in the past, depending upon the fields and the particular time period, we don't view that decline rate as unusual. In fact, our decline rates in our fields are as we have expected. It's really when you look at what the results are, for example, in the third quarter, if the impact of the work programs and when those work programs are completed. We're going to continue to see decline rates in mature fields, and we'll continue to invest on the profitable opportunities; but there's nothing really in our view right now unusual about the kinds of declines that we're seeing in these fields.  

FREDERICK P. LEUFFER: Okay.  

PATRICK MULVA: I mean, if you step back and look at Exxon Mobil's overall decline rates that we've talked about all in, we've talked about it on average in the 5% to 6% range, and so that's going to be a mix of fields that we bring on that have no decline rate and older more mature fields that are going to have decline rates obviously greater than that. So from a mature standpoint, not any real surprises for us.  

FREDERICK P. LEUFFER: All right. And just in Europe, I think you said the Brent maintenance cost you about 60 million cubic feet a day on the gas side. The field's still down. What's the outlook fort fourth quarter? And then, also, if you can just maybe talk about the Asian entitlement situation on natural gas and what that might mean for the fourth quarter as well.  

PATRICK MULVA: Just to repeat a little bit, what we've seen on Brent all in -- the Brent problem, from a volume standpoint, has cost us in the third quarter about 20,000 barrels of oil equivalent. That's 10 of liquids and 61 million cubic feet per day of gas, to be specific. Go forward, when we look at the fourth quarter, the Brent situation is going to probably impact our volumes about 30,000 barrels a day. And that's about 20,000 barrels a day of liquids and about 10 on an oil equivalent barrel basis of gas or about 75 million cubic feet per day of gas.  

FREDERICK P. LEUFFER: In Asia?  

PATRICK MULVA: On the entitlements issue, of course, that's directly related to the contractual agreements that we have in place where whether it's a question of cost gas or cost or higher prices. That's the entitlement impact that we see.  

FREDERICK P. LEUFFER: Okay. If I could just steal you for one more, a nonoperating question. A number of companies have been impacted by recent accounting changes, specifically FIN 46 and FASB 150. In the case of Conoco Phillips, $2.9 million in debt mysteriously appears on their balance sheet. And we saw BP and Royal Dutch take pretty significant environmental charges. Yet Exxon Mobil seems unaffected by all that. So I guess my question is: How do you account for debt equity instruments and consolidation of variable interest entities, and how and when do you conduct your environmental reserve assessments?  

PATRICK MULVA: Well, first off, we don't see anything unusual in any of the implementation of the FASBs. You're not going to hear any specific problems or numbers coming out for Exxon Mobil. We've adapted the FASBs. We're going to adopt FAS 46 in the fourth quarter and don't see any real impact from adoption of FAS 46. Our balance sheet we pretty much keep everything on the balance sheet, as you well know.  

FREDERICK P. LEUFFER: Mm-hmm.  

PATRICK MULVA: With regard to -- I think you asked a question on reserves?  

FREDERICK P. LEUFFER: Yeah. Environmental assessments.  

PATRICK MULVA: Yeah. What I would tell you is, in fact, the accounting floor and the recognition of environmental reserves was kind of an ongoing business for this industry and for Exxon Mobil. So hearing about it is a little bit of a surprise for us, but I'm not commenting about the other guys. Let me comment that if you look in our proxy statement. I know specifically if you take a look at Page A11 in our proxy, we outline that on a continuing basis you will see charges in Exxon Mobil's earnings for site restoration and environmental liabilities. In fact, in 2002 they were about $400 million. And we don't see breaking that out as some kind of different item as necessary. It's part of the business. So it's an ongoing evaluation for us that reflects how you account for this business.  

FREDERICK P. LEUFFER: Perfect. Thank you.  

OPERATOR: We'll take our next question from Neil McManus with Sanford Bernstein.  

NEIL MCMANUS, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: Hi, Pat.  

PATRICK MULVA: Hi, Neil.  

NEIL MCMANUS: Just a few questions. First of all, back to the decline rate situation again. How much were NGL effects in the U.S. natural gas decline rates given the change in the [inaudible] spread between Q2 and Q3? And were you seeing any natural declines from any of your deeper water fields in the Gulf of Mexico? Was the decline in the lower 48 or was it actually offshore as well? And then, secondly, just returning to your European gas as well. From just looking at some of the UK gas prices, just noting where the LNG cargos were going on the third quarter to Spain, was the demand decline you saw restricted to sort of Germany and that sort of area? Because we're not really seeing it in the numbers in the U.K. and Southern Europe.  

PATRICK MULVA: Let me answer the last question first. We saw the decline primarily in Germany and the Netherlands on the gas volumes. Let me go back and see if I've got your questions. On the first one, on the decline rates relative to gas and gas processing, it was very minimal impact, if any, on those gas volumes from switching. If we look at our decline rates in the United States, kind of across the board, nothing sticks out as anything particularly worrisome on the decline rates, Gulf of Mexico versus inland operations, kind of what we would have expected. So no real surprises for us there. Neil, I'll have to ask you on the LNG question --  

NEIL MCMANUS: Yeah. I think you answered it with European. But just a follow-up on the LNG into the U.K. and Europe. Any more detail on timing of LNG going into U.K. and Europe and in terms of the infrastructure that would need to be in place in the U.K. to actually land that LNG and get it into the marketplace?  

PATRICK MULVA: Well, we're making good progress overall on the LNG projects that we announced. Basically we're still on the same schedule with regulatory approval process and the rest for the regasification facilities in the U.K. Our timing on those projects are 2007, 2008. Projects are both at what we call feed front-end engineering and design, so no change from the schedule.  

NEIL MCMANUS: Okay, thanks, Pat.  

PATRICK MULVA: You bet, Neil.  

OPERATOR: We'll take our next question from Mark Gilman with First Albany Corporation.  

MARK GILMAN, FIRST ALBANY CORPORATION: Pat, good morning. A couple of things if I could. Was there any impact of Nigerian outages or disruptions, either OSO or otherwise, on third quarter West African production?  

PATRICK MULVA: We did have impact on our overall volumes. I think overall OSO was about 25,000 barrels a day; and, of course, that's coming back on and that's not an issue for us. But 25,000 barrels a day, Mark.  

MARK GILMAN: But other than that, Nigeria was producing full out?  

PATRICK MULVA: Oh, yeah. We were not impacted by any country issues. It was the operational issues that we talked to you about in the past.  

MARK GILMAN: Okay. Pat, if you would, could you just clarify, when you were going through the entitlement effects discussion I thought that you confined your comments to the natural gas side. And I believe there should have been such effects on the liquid side as well. Could you clarify that for me, please?  

PATRICK MULVA: Yeah. I was specifically addressing the gas volume effects; but you're absolutely right, Mark. We did have some entitlement impacts. Specifically in Asia-Pacific, if you look on the quarter-on-quarter comparison, I think in round numbers, Mark, it was about 15 to 17,000 barrels a day impact on the Asia-Pacific volumes. Other than that, really didn't see any other entitlements impacts, for example, in Canada where we'll sometimes see that. But about 15,000 a day.  

MARK GILMAN: And what was the gas number again, please, Pat?  

PATRICK MULVA: The gas number entitlements all in was about -- it was about 110 million cubic feet per day.  

MARK GILMAN: Okay. One more, if I could. Was there anything that occurred in terms of effective tax rate changes burdening the overseas upstream business unit? It appears to us that that might have been something that occurred in the quarter.  

PATRICK MULVA: Mark, not really, not anything specific in the third quarter 2003 at all. If we look at our overall effective tax rate and the mix of the businesses, nothing unusual for us.  

MARK GILMAN: Okay, Pat, thanks a lot.  

PATRICK MULVA: Yes.  

OPERATOR: We'll take our next question from Paul Sanki with Deutsche Banc.  

PAUL SANKI, DEUTSCHE BANC: Hi, Pat, Paul Sanki on the line. I don't want to labor the point on volumes in Asia but could you just talk about the performance of Aroon during the quarter, please, and if it's relevant of Bass Strait (ph) as well and how that's impacted on your year on year volumes?  

PATRICK MULVA: First of all, Aroon is back up at the 750 million cubic feet ber day of volume, so we're basically kind of normal operations, if you will, for Aroon.  

PAUL SANKI: Pat, is that flat year-on-year, then, or is that showing decline year-on-year or where are we at?  

PATRICK MULVA: I don't have specific decline rates for Aroon, but that field is on decline. I was really commenting more on the impact that we had some operational issues there that brought our volumes down a little bit, so we're back up at basically full operations there at 750 a day.  

PAUL SANKI: Okay, great. Thanks, Pat. Sorry, go on, please.  

PATRICK MULVA: Your question on Australia?  

PAUL SANKI: Yeah.  

PATRICK MULVA: Here we just here recently announced a major drilling opportunity in the Bass Straits (ph) which we're very excited about. Last year we made some good investment there on and basically did the largest 3D-seismic shoot that was ever done in that area. And so we're very optimistic about going forward here with the drilling program that we announced for the Bass Straits (ph), and we're going to invest something like around $70 million in that drilling program going forward. So we'll see how it all turns out. You got to drill the wells but, again, we're very excited about this opportunity.  

PAUL SANKI: Sure. Thanks for that. And just further on drilling. You had a lot of activity, again, in West Africa. Have you got any more color, if you want, on for instance Block 15 or anything that's going on there? And any further observations about Chad/Cameroon performance going forward with the [inaudible] as well?  

PATRICK MULVA: Chad/Cameroon is ramping up as we commented. Our volumes in the quarter were about 100,000, 110,000 barrels per day and we're headed towards gross production of 225,000 barrels a day. So going just fine. With regard to -- I commented about all of our major discoveries, where 41 discoveries in West Africa. And if you look at Block 15 and 17, they're 29 of the 41 discoveries, and just a very great opportunity for Exxon Mobil.  

PAUL SANKI: Okay. Pat, and my final one is just on the environment that you've seen in downstream this quarter to date. If you've got anything you can tell us about, refining margins and marketing margins U.S. and globally, then I'll close it there. Thanks.  

PATRICK MULVA: Well, both the refining and marketing margins move around so much ever day that it's kind of hard to make a call. A little bit of strengthening early on in the quarter, but too soon to call as far as what's going to happen as we look out for the fourth quarter. Right now the margins look kind of flat on both refining and marketing overall.  

PAUL SANKI: Thanks very much, Pat.  

OPERATOR: We'll take our next question from Mark Flannery with Credit Suisse First Boston.  

MARK FLANNERY, CREDIT SUISSE FIRST BOSTON: Hi, Pat.  

PATRICK MULVA: Hi, Mark.  

MARK FLANNERY: I have two questions, really. Mentioning about the reinvestment in the profitable opportunities in the U.S. gas portfolio. By implication, you probably have some less profitable opportunities and assets there. Should we expect any acceleration in asset disposals in the coming year, either in that particular part of the portfolio, or worldwide? First question. Second question is quite simple: Could you just walk us through the major effects on the businesses of a weaker U.S. dollar?  

PATRICK MULVA: Sure. On the overall impact and comments on assets, asset and asset sales, if you look at Exxon Mobil on an ongoing basis, all in, all businesses, we have a kind of an evergreen asset high-grading program, if you will, or divestment program. You'll see us continue to market properties along the line, but not any major change in that approach as we go forward. We on average sell about $500 million to a billion dollars worth of assets all in every year, but I don't see us having any particular change in that approach.  

With regard to the overall impact of the U.S. dollar. I mean, overall from Exxon Mobil viewpoint, we have a bit of a natural hedge as you look around the world. Just because of our involvement all around the world, from a 4X standpoint, as I said, quarter on quarter, and any comparison is kind of a minor impact; but if you look at year-to-date and you look at the effects of 4X for Exxon Mobil, we've been positively impacted on a bottom-line basis around $300 million, given the changes in the U.S. dollar in this time period.  

MARK FLANNERY: Great. Could I come just back on the first question again? $500 million to a billion dollars per annum expected all in, any change in the mix there? Will you be -- that includes downstream in chemicals, I assume -- will you be weighting that more towards the upstream in the future, do you think or . . .  

PATRICK MULVA: No specific plan to weight it in any direction. It's really one of opportunity.  

MARK FLANNERY: Great. Thank you very much.  

OPERATOR: We'll take our next question from Paul Cheng with Lehman Brothers.  

PAUL Y. CHENG, LEHMAN BROTHERS: Hey good morning, guys.  

PATRICK MULVA: Hi, Paul.  

PAUL Y. CHENG: Several quick questions. Pat, in the U.S. -- sorry to maybe be focusing too much on that -- on the U.S. natural gas year-to-date, I think you were down about 5.3%. Should we assume that that will be a [inaudible] excluding any, say, major [inaudible], just based on the -- on going with the program and everything, a 5% to 6% decline rate in the U.S. natural gas?  

PATRICK MULVA: I think that's fair assumption. I mean, because of different timing and work programs that we've got in place and that we've got planned, I think that that kind of decline rate is a reasonable estimate.  

PAUL Y. CHENG: I mean quarter to quarter you will change but --  

PATRICK MULVA: Oh, well, quarter to quarter we're going to be impacted by work programs --  

PAUL Y. CHENG: Right. But if you look at a little bit longer term that that would be the continued decline rate, right?  

PATRICK MULVA: Yeah. I mean, really the impact for us in the United States, when you look at the overall volumes is from a market standpoint is when we're able to bring on these larger volumes, later in the decade.  

PAUL Y. CHENG: Okay. That's good. Secondly, can you comment whether you have any underlifting in the third quarter results?  

PATRICK MULVA: Underlifting?  

PAUL Y. CHENG: Right. That you sell less than your production in the --  

PATRICK MULVA: Oh, no.  

PAUL Y. CHENG: I mean, because in the Chad/Cameroon I suppose that you have the field the pipe so . . .  

PATRICK MULVA: Oh, well, sure. We had pipe fill and we just did our first cargo; but, I mean, that's just the start-up impact but no major impact on our production volume.  

PAUL Y. CHENG: Okay. If that's the case, when I'm looking at your volume and looking at the real nice price, it appears that international E&P, the cost may be higher sequentially by somewhere in the $50 million after-tax basis. Just wondering, have you seen a similar trend in your cost structure? Or maybe I'm just dead wrong on that.  

PATRICK MULVA: Well, actually, when you look at our non-U.S. upstream results, there are a couple of factors that were impacting us when you look at the quarters. We had higher exploration activity in that time period, which did impact our results. And we also have some higher overall expenses associated with the startup of some new operations, for example, like Chad/Cameroon. So you're right, you can see those impacts when you look at the overall results for the non-U.S. upstream.  

PAUL Y. CHENG: Okay. And in Russia, I think the [inaudible] there's some news headline talking about the authority is looking into several companies, productionwise and the way how they look at it. And one of the comment [inaudible] is they are looking at the Sakhalin-1 that Exxon is working on. I'm just wondering if you can confirm whether you guys have been contacted by the Russian authority on that or not?  

PATRICK MULVA: Well, we're dealing with the Russian authorities on Sakhalin-1 all the time with regard to meeting the requirements of the rules and regulations for the construction on Sakhalin, and so I can confirm that we've had that contact. It was several weeks ago. I can tell you that Exxon Mobil is meeting all the requirements and rules and regulations for the development to the best of our ability, and we will cooperate with the regulatory authorities in Russia to the best of our ability just like we do anyplace else in the world.  

PAUL Y. CHENG: Okay. Finally, I think you said that the worldwide [inaudible] $250 million sequential job in earning due to lower marketing margin. Can you [inaudible] between the U.S. and overseas?  

PATRICK MULVA: Yeah. Just a rough split. It's about $200 million, non-U.S. and $50 million U.S.  

PAUL Y. CHENG: Okay. Very good. Thank you.  

PATRICK MULVA: Sure.  

OPERATOR: We'll take our next question from George Gaspar with Robert W. Baird.  

GEORGE J. GASPAR, ROBERT W. BAIRD: Yes, good morning.  

PATRICK MULVA: Hi, George.  

GEORGE J. GASPAR: First question is, if you could particularize what we might be looking at in each quarter of '04 in West Africa net additions in some of the projects that you mentioned coming on, for example, Kasambi (ph) and so on. What kind of increments do you see quarterly?  

PATRICK MULVA: George, we don't break out the quarterly buys. What I would tell you is that if you look just at what we started up, and if I could refer you to our financial and operating report that we'd be glad to share with you if you don't have, it will show you the volumes that we're bringing on in the -- we brought on and we will bring on on in 2003 and the prop (ph) volumes we'll bring on in 2004, and I think that will give you a good idea of the overall impact on volumes year-on-year.  

GEORGE J. GASPAR: Okay. And second question on West Africa, the joint development [inaudible] sale concluded last week. Is Exxon, with your [inaudible] rates that you are carrying through that lease sale, will Exxon have -- I think your pref (ph) rate is the 40% interest potentially in a block. Are you going to do in block one?  

PATRICK MULVA: Well, we have preferential rights on three blocks; and, of course, we'll just take a look at that and see if it's a profitable deal.  

GEORGE J. GASPAR: Okay. And then one question here on the Gulf of Mexico. I know that going for the long hit you've kind of passed by a lot of the shelf drilling or kind of disappeared to a great extent from the shelf. And we're looking at this decline curve in your gas production. Would it not be reasonable to trade off some of your stock buyback for doing some deep horizon drilling that is beginning to show some sizable production rates that could get you up over this decline curve in domestic output on an interim basis and probably satisfy the street more than seeing the decline curve persist here?  

PATRICK MULVA: Well, I really feel compelled to answer the first part of the question which is we don't have to trade off anything as far as investment standpoint from the share buyback program to the investments, and that's -- I would say that's just the fundamental strength of Exxon Mobil. So we're not being constrained on anything in the Gulf of Mexico or anywhere else in the world by the buyback program at all. It really is the issue of timing and looking for the right opportunities, whether it's the shelf, Gulf of Mexico or whatever. So it is opportunity-driven, and when those projects look good we'll invest in them, if they're there.  

GEORGE J. GASPAR: RIght. I mean, what is your -- what's the company's posture on deep horizon drilling? I mean, you're not there and there's significant evidence starting to emerge; and you would think somebody of Exxon's caliber would be drilling.  

PATRICK MULVA: Well, we'll play wherever there's a good opportunity so we've got -- if you look at our overall acreage position that we have in the Gulf of Mexico, there are opportunities there and we are doing some drilling. So we're not -- we have not precluded ourselves from any opportunities in the Gulf of Mexico. It is, again, a question of timing and opportunities. As I said, we've got a good acreage position.  

GEORGE J. GASPAR: Okay. And then lastly on Qatar. The LNG program is obviously very substantive. What is your -- what is the plan for drilling here going forward? What kind of a Capex and is this going to be initiated in '04? What kind of a budget might you be looking at? How dramatic is the drilling process going to be on gas?  

PATRICK MULVA: The development of the resource base in Qatar is not really the issue because of the very large north field. The issue is the timing on the construction of the liquefaction of plants in Qatar and, the, of course, the transportation and regasification, whether it's going into the United States or U.K. or what have you. If you look at those investments, of course, we're investing today in our two trains that will be bringing volumes into India and into Europe in 2004, 2005. And those investments -- and those projects are currently being constructed. I don't have the specific numbers on the investments, but they're substantial.  

GEORGE J. GASPAR: Okay. So you would tend to then lag on the drilling side and concentrate on the infrastructure investment up front?  

PATRICK MULVA: There's no real lag, it's the project development; but because the resource base is there the drilling and the requirements there are minimal versus the rest. So there is no lag issue at all. It's the development of the project overall.  

GEORGE J. GASPAR: I see. Okay.  

PATRICK MULVA: It's really a question of timing on putting the whole chain, supply chain together and drilling is not a constraint.  

GEORGE J. GASPAR: All right. Thank you.  

PATRICK MULVA: You bet.  

OPERATOR: We'll go next to Jeremy Elden with Lehman Brothers.  

JEREMY ELDEN, LEHMAN BROTHERS: Good morning. Can you give us a sense on overall E&P costs, whether they're now rising and if you can give us any kind of feel for how much year-on-year? And, secondly, in the international part of your business, can you give us a sense of what part of the E&P costs are incurred in currencies other than the dollar?  

PATRICK MULVA: Sure let me first talk about our overall operating expenses in the upstream. Our operating expenses in the upstream on a [inaudible] basis are being impacted most dramatically by two things in 2003: by 4X and by the overall energy price. Which you know from a bottom-line standpoint for Exxon Mobil is good, but we do see that impact on our overall operating cost on a unit-per-barrel basis. If we look at our cost, our basic objective for our unit cost, and we really tend to look at it on a unit-cost basis, is to recognize that with the large investments that we're making we do see the impact of D&D. And so the objective that we have in place here is to offset the increased D&D by reducing our cash cost on a unit basis.  

And that's something we're devoting a lot of effort to, have devoted a lot of effort to in the past. So our overall objective is to kind of hold the line flat, if you will, between rising D&D and cash cost. What we're seeing in the very near term from an operating cost standpoint, and it's impacting unicost if you do it all in devisor, is that as we start up some of these bigger projects and bring those volumes on in the near term you see the impact of those cash costs. Like, for example, starting up Chad/Cameroon, you'll have those cash costs. But then as the volumes ramp up and you get the devisor impact, you'll see a favorable impact on unit operating costs with these very large investments. There's no doubt there's pressure on unit operating costs on an all-in basis, but when we look at the kind of progress we've made, it's a challenge and it's one that we've dealt with in the past and will continue to deal with because, again, we feel the same pressures I think that everybody else does in the industry.  

JEREMY ELDEN: Right. Thanks. Any idea what proportion of the international stuff is in non-dollars?  

PATRICK MULVA: Don't have the specifics, I would tell you that if we look at our overall operating costs for the company, we're impacted -- our 4X impact on our operating expenses could be in the range of $1.5 billion dollars for the year so far; but I don't have the split between upstream and downstream.  

JEREMY ELDEN: Right. So $1.5 billion versus last year, first nine months?  

PATRICK MULVA: Yeah, right.  

JEREMY ELDEN: Okay. I can work that. Thanks a lot.  

PATRICK MULVA: You bet.  

OPERATOR: We'll take our next question from Michael Mayer with Prudential.  

MICHAEL L. MAYER, PRUDENTIAL: Yes, hello. Thank you.  

PATRICK MULVA: Hi, Michael.  

MICHAEL L. MAYER: How you doing?  

PATRICK MULVA: Fine.  

MICHAEL L. MAYER: I have, maybe, three specific numbers questions and then a more substantive qualitative question. On the numbers, you said environmental charges in 2002 were about $400 million. What is the figure you're accruing for 2003? The second numbers question is you said the dollar benefited -- the effects of dollar and foreign exchange have benefited you by about $300 million year-to-date this year. What is the full-year number for 2002? And then I'll ask my qualitative question.  

PATRICK MULVA: On the environmental cost, just by way of history, just to give you a sense, 2001 we were like $370 million, 2002 about $400 million, and that's not a trend necessarily as much as to say the right number is around $400 million dollar for environmental. And that's site restoration and environmental liabilities all in -- so kind of the $400 million range, Michael, with no real point of variance around that number.  

MICHAEL L. MAYER: So for '03 it's not a source of variance in your earnings?  

PATRICK MULVA: Year-on-year, no. I don't have the full year-end projection or the numbers, but I don't see it as being anything significant.  

MICHAEL L. MAYER: Okay. And then on the currency effects?  

PATRICK MULVA: The currency effects, I commented that year-to-date. We were favorably impacted, as you had played back to me, around the $350 million range. The impact for 2002, I'll have to just get back to you on, Michael, if I may.  

MICHAEL L. MAYER: Okay, that's fine. Thanks.  

PATRICK MULVA: All right.  

MICHAEL L. MAYER: The next two questions, maybe you can answer them in the broader sense. Given the Qatar LNG investments, what sort of life of cycle return on your capital investment are you expecting from those projects. And what sort of U.S. natural gas is embedded in that -- gas price assumption is embedded in that expected return?  

PATRICK MULVA: If we look at -- and as you know we don't typically talk about our specific projects on a return basis, but I can tell you that the Qatar investments are very favorable investments. And as you know, our focus is on returns that are in the mid to high teens on a lined out (ph) full cycle basis; and those are the kinds of numbers that we would be seeing with regard to Qatar. If you look at our overall view on natural gas prices and our view going forward, we commented in our teleconference on natural gas that when we look at these projects we see a range of somewhere between $3.00 to $4.00 per million BTUs and that these projects would be competitive in that price range. So that's the kind of price range that we're looking at.  

MICHAEL L. MAYER: Okay. That's a good answer. Thanks. And if I can ask one more question: Exxon has done this in the past, but could you once again articulate the trade-off your management committee looks at in terms of raising the dividend at a faster rate versus continuing the share repurchase programs, especially in light of the changes in the tax law and the generally significantly lower interest rate environment?  

PATRICK MULVA: Well, really the view is one of all-in return to the shareholders. So when we look at the approach that we're taking and we listen to the shareholders, we see that there's a mix of desire for the share buyback and from the dividends. So when we really look at it, we're looking at it from the standpoint of the total bottom line return to the shareholder. Interestingly enough, some recent surveys that we've looked at would indicate that the luster around the dividend is not quite there. I guess in looking at dividend policies that others have implemented, it's interesting to see that there hasn't been this rush overall to raising dividends.  

I guess aside from that kind of look at the rest of world that we've done -- which is not a policy, it's just interesting data -- when I look at Exxon Mobil and we look at how we manage it, it is [inaudible] reaching what I would say is a favorable return and a combination of the share buyback and dividend and one of consistency. Others seem to look at share buyback programs as an on and off switch, and we view that that is an important part of the returns. And you know from following us that we take a very consistent approach to the share buyback program. So really I think it's one of overall consistency for dividend and dividend growth and share buyback.  

MICHAEL L. MAYER: Okay, thank you.  

PATRICK MULVA: You bet.  

OPERATOR: We'll take our next question from David Wheeler with JP Morgan.  

DAVID J. WHEELER, JP MORGAN: Thanks. My question's been answered.  

PATRICK MULVA: Okay, Dave.  

OPERATOR: We'll go next to Scott Drysdale (ph) with Columbia Management.  

SCOTT DRYSDALE, COLUMBIA MANAGEMENT: Sorry. My question's been answered, too. Thanks.  

PATRICK MULVA: Okay.  

OPERATOR: And we'll go to William Fare (ph) with WHS Reed & Company (ph).  

WILLIAM FARE, WHS REED & COMPANY: Good morning, or good afternoon, Pat. How you doing?  

PATRICK MULVA: Good.  

WILLIAM FARE: Michael was probably on the right track and just as a parenthetical obviously the tax treatment of dividends have changed recently so any longer-term study would probably be influenced, perhaps, by a different tax rate, but maybe that's an offline discussion. And following along his lines of questioning and re: your earlier comment of Qatar by a date future to have 15 point -- I'm sorry, 55 million tons a year capacity, just as a broad generalization, how much would you then have invested in Qatar by that point in time? More specific question, on the North Sea, aside from Brent, were there any other issues of production disruption? I'm thinking Shearwater in particular and anything else that might have occurred. And lastly, when -- refresh me, if you would -- when Brent operationally might be back at full? Thanks very much.  

PATRICK MULVA: Sure. Shearwater is back on production and so really the major impact on volumes in the quarterly comparison when we look at Europe is the impact of Brent overall. Brent, it would now appear that Brent's going to come back online and the impact, I think I already commented, that will have on our fourth quarter volume. So we're expecting to see the volumes come back, but it will still have a bottom-line impact, of course, for the quarter.  

WILLIAM FARE: Just as a point of clarification, I misunderstood you. Was Brent going to cost volume in the fourth quarter or was that the incremental? The fourth quarter volumes you gave, was that the incremental positive contribution?  

PATRICK MULVA: No, Brent will cost us about 30,000 barrels a day in the quarter because, basically, we had no production in October.  

WILLIAM FARE: I got you. Okay.  

PATRICK MULVA: With regard to the Qatar, we don't have a total bottom line for all of our projects. Of course, there's some development ahead of us to come to that. If you look at the series of projects that we're going to be building together with the Qataris, this spans out to basically 2010. These are very large investments, each of them in billions, so it's hard to draw a bottom line when we add up all those projects.  

WILLIAM FARE: All right. Billions and billions. Sounds like --  

PATRICK MULVA: Well, not quite billions and billions. But I'll tell you what you'll see is as we develop the financial and operating summary report for this next year, those projects will be included and you'll have a pretty good idea about the overall cost and the overall investment that we'll be making in Qatar when you look at that summary,because we'll be including those projects in our prospective look at our project portfolio.  

WILLIAM FARE: That would be great. Thanks very much.  

OPERATOR: We'll take our next question from Cecil Goodman (ph) with Highland Capital Management.  

CECIL GOODMAN, HIGHLAND CAPITAL MANAGEMENT: Thank you, Pat. Could I go back just a little bit to the production in Europe, and I know it's been talked about a little bit. Was there anything at all seasonally a year ago to hit this? And if that is the case or not, if I look at the nine-month trend of Europe, is that a legitimate trend or is it overstated with the weather delta that took place in the third quarter as far as production declines for the nine months?  

PATRICK MULVA: Really to do the comparison we just really got to look at the weather impact when you look quarter on quarter on quarter, if you will, because the European volumes are almost completely driven by -- they are driven by the weather demand, because we have capacity there to meet those demands. So I would say if you look at any of those comparisons it's going to be an issue of, if you're in the summer months and warmer summer than the past; if you're in the winter, warmer or colder winter than in the past, I think that's the best way to look at those volumes.  

CECIL GOODMAN: If I'm looking at nine months versus nine months, I guess we've got a question. Is it -- we're down 10% on production, I mean, 4% in production on nine-month period. Is that just -- is there no sense in drawing a conclusion there?  

PATRICK MULVA: If you look at our volumes, our gas volumes, in Europe on a year-to-date basis, we had some favorable impact, if you will, on gas volumes year-to-date, with it being slightly cooler in Europe than the previous year.  

CECIL GOODMAN: Okay. Thank you very much.  

OPERATOR: Next we'll take a follow-up question from Paul Cheng with Lehman Brothers.  

PAUL Y. CHENG: Just two quick ones. On the [inaudible] sequential to the second quarter, you indicated it's $250 million lower. Do you have a split between the retail side and the wholesale side?  

PATRICK MULVA: No, we really don't have that specific split. We look at it on a geographic basis.  

PAUL Y. CHENG: Okay. Secondly, maybe I don't fully understand. I believe you're saying that the foreign exchange impact, because of the weaker dollar, is positive to you guys for $350 million so far year to date in 2003. But you're going to raise your operating costs, you also say is about $1.5 billion year-over-year. And the [inaudible] of them is being priced based on U.S. dollar, a big chunk of your natural gas also being [inaudible] based on dollar. So I'm not sure why you would be a positive impact?  

PATRICK MULVA: Well first off, when you look at our overall operating expenses, they are being impacted by 4X; but, of course, we have efficiency effects that are going to help offset that 4X. What we like to talk about though is just as you pointed out: the bottom line. What's the bottom-line impact? Because of Exxon Mobil's size and where we operate, we have so many natural hedges on 4X that the bottom line all in considering operating expenses and the rest, our earnings are favorably impacted.  

PAUL Y. CHENG: So despite the weaknesses of U.S. dollar gains to Euro and the Japanese Yen this year we actually see a positive impact on earnings for you guys?  

PATRICK MULVA: Yeah. I mean a lot of our local currency sales are obviously done in local currencies; and we're driven a lot in Europe by gas and, of course, in Europe by our chemicals. And so when you look at that $350 million, 250 of the $350 million is in our chemicals businesses and the [inaudible] share balance of it is in the upstream associated with our gas sales. That's really where you see the bottom line impact.  

PAUL Y. CHENG: Thank you.  

PATRICK MULVA: You bet.  

OPERATOR: We'll go next to Tyler Dann with Banc of America Securities.  

TYLER DANN II: Hi, Pat. A follow-up on U.S. natural gas. It looks as if you had a 43 million cubic foot per day revision upwards in the second quarter numbers that looks to be finalized. And realizing, of course, that on the title of your press release you say you're estimating what your third quarter 2003 results are. But could you explain that revision? And I haven't done all work to figure out if that's typical.  

PATRICK MULVA: Tyler, there are some finalized numbers that we put out. I think it's probably best just to give you the details. There's nothing specific behind it. There were no unusual effects as we get to the final numbers. If you will, we can just come back and give you those details. But for the rest of the people on the call I can tell you that there were no special changes or any specific effects on it. It's kind of a a true-up of those numbers.  

TYLER DANN II: Okay, thanks.  

OPERATOR: We'll go next to George Gaspar with Robert W. Baird.  

GEORGE J. GASPAR: Pat, you mentioned earlier the McKenzie (ph) Delta. Does Exxon have any specific plans for drilling this winter up there? I mean, is there any kind of a program that you're going to pursue during the winter period?  

PATRICK MULVA: All of our efforts on the McKenzie (ph) Delta right now are pretty much directed at the approval process with the government.  

GEORGE J. GASPAR: Okay. Thank you.  

PATRICK MULVA: Sure, George.  

OPERATOR: This concludes today's question-and-answer session. At this time I'd like to turn the conference back over to Mr. Mulva for any additional or closing comments.  

PATRICK MULVA: I'd like to thank everyone for your participation in our quarterly conference; and look forward to meeting you again on this teleconference at the end of the year with fourth quarter results. Thank you all for your participation.  

OPERATOR: Once again this concludes today's conference. We thank you for your participation. You may now disconnect.  

[CCBN reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES CCBN ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. Copyright 2003, CCBN, Inc. All Rights Reserved.]  

[Copyright: Content copyright 2003 CCBN, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Electronic format, layout and metadata, copyright 2003 FDCH e-Media, Inc. (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.) ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user's personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon CCBN's or FDCH e-Media's copyright or other proprietary rights or interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CCBN and FDCH e-Media so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CCBN and FDCH e-Media as the originators and copyright holders of such material. This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation.]  

   CO
exxn : Exxon Mobil Corporation
   IN
i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1 : Energy | i1300003 : Crude Petroleum Extraction | iextra : Natural Gas/Oil Extraction
   NS
ntra : Transcript | ncat : Content Types
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
FDCH e-Media--Format B
   AN
Document FNDW000020031113dzau000xe
  


 HD
 Q1  2003  Exxon  Mobil Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final 
   WC
10,616 words
   PD
1 May 2003
   ET
03:00 PM GMT
   SN
FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
 (c) CCBN and FDCH e-Media. All Rights Reserved. 

   LP
 OPERATOR: Good day and welcome to the Exxon-Mobil Corporation first quarter 2003 earnings conference call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time, for opening remarks, I would like to turn the call over to the Vice President of Investor Relations, Mr. Pat Mulva. Please go ahead, Sir. 

 PATRICK MULVA, VICE PRESIDENT OF INVESTOR RELATIONS, EXXON MOBIL CORPORATION: Thank you and welcome to Exxon-Mobil's teleconference and webcast on our first quarter 2003 financial and operating results. My remarks today may include some projections, estimates, expectations, plans, and other forward-looking statements on topics such as market conditions, future production, capital expenditures, expense efficiencies, U.S. pension expenses, corporate and finance expenses, project schedules and recoverable resources. 

   TD
 Actual results could differ materially due to factors I discuss and factors noted in our SEC filings. In particular, I refer you to factors affecting future results, included in item one of our latest form 10-K and also posted on our website. I also refer you to the frequently-used terms posted on our website and the 8-K we furnished this morning, which is also available through our site. This material defines certain financial and operating measures and other terms I may use today. 

 To the extent applicable, this material also includes GAAP reconciliations, and additional information required by SEC Reg-G. Note that we assume no duty to revise, correct, or update today's information as of any future time. Exxon-Mobil's first quarter net income was just over $7 billion or $1.05 per share. This represents the corporation's highest net income ever for a quarter. 

 These results included a $550 million positive benefit from the required adoption of FAS 143 and a $1.7 billion gain from the transfer of shares in [RURE] gas. Excluding special items, first quarter earnings were nearly $4.8 billion, or 71 cents per share. On this basis, earnings increased nearly $2.6 billion or 126% over the first quarter of 2002 and $1 billion or 26% over the fourth quarter. Reflecting improved industry conditions across all business segments. 

 In the first quarter, we achieved several key milestones in the planning, development, and implementation of major upstream projects and in our downstream and chemical businesses. And I'll cover some of the highlights for the quarter. 

 Beginning with the upstream. We announced the discovery of a world-class gas resource in Australia. The [JANS] field has an estimated 20 trillion cubic feet of recoverable gas, which we believe is the largest gas discovery in Australian waters. In Malaysia, production commenced from the Biptang gas field. This field is expected to produce about 1 trillion cubic feet of gas with a peak production rate of 355 million cubic feet per day. In Russia, development of our [SOC 1] project continues as we met another major milestone this quarter. The approval of the phase I development plan budget by the authorized state body. 

 We also announced the phase I investment in the more than $1.1 billion [alka kill] gas project in [Qatar], which will supply 750 cubic feet per day of gas to domestic and industrial users. First gas is scheduled for the fourth quarter of 2005. This project is forecast to ultimately include the export of gas to the region with an expected peak capacity of 1.75 billion cubic feet per day. In west Africa, contracts were awarded on [KASANAMA] B project in Angola block 15. In addition, both [JAKAMBA] and [KASAMBA] A progressed toward planned 2003 and 2004 startups. 

 We continue to make excellent progress on our Chad Cameroon project to develop 1 billion barrels of oil, with startup anticipated later this year. In the Caspian region, the [indescernible] partners approved funding for detailed engineering and construction of the expansion project. This project is expected to start up in 2006 and produce 440,000 barrels per day of liquids and 100 million cubic feet per day of gas. 

 Also during this quarter, we broke ground on a new state-of-the-art upstream technical training center. The construction of this new center serves to reaffirm our continuing commitment to leading-edge technology and to the transfer of that technology and expertise to our employees around the world. In the downstream, Exxon-Mobil launched a new line of synthetic blend motor oils for high-mileage engines. 

 These products are formulated to help clean and restore performance of high-mileage engines and help prevent engine sludge build up in new vehicles. Our low-sulfur fuels projects at our refineries are on track. We continue to minimize the investment required through the application of our proprietary technology and our ability to share best practices across our global refining network. 

 On March the 31st, we announced plans to expand our cogeneration facilities at the Baytown Refinery and Chemical Complex. Construction of the 160 megawatt facility is expected to start in mid summer and to be completed in late 2004. The project will substantially reduce both energy costs and emissions associated with this facility and assure reliability of power. 

 Let's now turn to the business line results. The upstream earnings in the first quarter were nearly $4 billion, a record quarter. Average crude prices for the quarter were at historic highs. Natural gas prices were also strong primarily due to cold weather in the U.S. 

 Compared with the first quarter of 2002, results were up $1.9 billion, primarily due to higher liquids realizations of $1.2 billion and higher natural gas realizations of about $800 million. 

 Looking sequentially upstream earnings were up nearly $1 billion due to higher crude realizations of $600 million and higher gas realizations of $500 million. Turning to volumes, production on an oil equivalent basis increased 2% versus the first quarter of 2002, excluding the effects of the national strike in Venezuela, pricing factors and quota impacts. While actual liquids production was down slightly, excluding these external impacts, volumes were flat versus the first quarter of 2002. 

 As natural fuel decline was offset by new production from projects in both West Africa and Europe. Gas volumes were up 3% versus the same period last year, reflecting the higher weather-related demand in Europe. We have provided with you data on regional volumes in the press release and the IR supplement. Let me focus on some of the key volume impacts for the quarter. 

 First liquids volumes. In Europe, production start ups at [indescernible] in Norway in December, the Penguins project in the UK in January, and Ring Horn in Norway in February more than offset field decline. Production volumes were higher versus both comparison periods. 

 In West Africa, liquids volumes were up nearly 20% versus both the same period last year and sequentially. The increase reflects the continued rampup of [GERSOL] in Angola, work programs in equatorial Guinea, and the startup of our first early production system at [YOHO] in Nigeria late last year. This system has performed better than expected, with current production at 115,000 barrels per day. The second and third EPS vessels will be deployed later this year at [FIRAL] in equatorial Guinea, and [CHAKAMBA] in Angola. 

 As you know, our quarterly volumes can be impacted by pricing factors through the terms of production-sharing agreements as well as economic decisions on producing liquids or gas through various processing arrangements. These factors impacted our liquids volumes in several regions in this first quarter, particularly Asia-Pacific, Canada, and the U.S. Now, a look at our natural gas volumes. In Europe, volumes were up versus both comparison periods, primarily due to colder weather with higher demand. Project startups in the Netherlands, Norway and the UK also favorably impacted volumes. Volumes in other regions were impacted by a combination of seasonal and price factors, scheduled downtime, and natural field decline. 

 LNG volumes from Qatar continue to grow with the completion of the Qatar gas debottleneck project in January and increased spot cargos. Our capital projects are progressing on plan with our upstream capex for the first quarter at $2.8 billion, that's up 23% from the first quarter of 2002. Plans for long-term capacity growth remain on track as reflected by our capital program. We also continue to manage expected fuel decline in mature areas to work programs and other profitable investments in our base. Our strong financial position allows us to pursue all profitable opportunities without sacrificing any of our existing investment programs. Now, turning to the downstream. 

 First quarter earnings of $723 million were up by about $750 million versus the first quarter of 2002, reflecting the overall improved industry conditions. Higher refining margins added $650 million and improved marketing margins accounted for nearly $150 million. The improved margins were partially offset by higher turnaround activity in the quarter. Excluding inventory effects, earnings increased $90 million versus the fourth quarter 2002. 

 Higher refining margins and lower operating expenses were partly offset by lower marketing margins, turnaround effects and the impact of price finalization. In the U.S., the downstream earnings were up $160 million versus the same period last year. Stronger refining and marketing margins added nearly $350 million. That's partially offset by increased turnaround activity, which impacted results by about $150 million. Versus the fourth quarter of 2002, U.S. earnings were down nearly $230 million. 

 Impacts of higher turnaround activity, the absence of fourth quarter LIFO benefits and lower marketing margins outweighs refining margin improvement. Non-U.S. downstream earnings improved substantially versus the first quarter of 2002, up nearly $600 million. Significant improvement in non-U.S. refining margins added nearly $450 million. 

 The quarterly results also benefited from lower operating costs in the absence of negative foreign exchange effects in Argentina in the first quarter of 2002. Versus the fourth quarter, non-U.S. earnings were up about $130 million with improvement in all business lines. The results included lower operating costs of about $170 million, and improved refining margins of about $100 million. These factors were partially offset by the absence of the fourth quarter LIFO gain Forex effects and lower-marketing margins. 

 Now turning to our chemical results. Chemical set another sales record in the first quarter. Building on our fourth consecutive year of record sales volumes. Sales volumes grew 280,000 tons or 4% versus the same period last year. Chemical earnings of $287 million were up more than $200 million sequentially and up about $150 million versus the first quarter of 2002. Earnings improved on higher sales volumes versus both comparison periods. 

 Operating expenses were down versus the fourth quarter due to lower maintenance activity. Versus the first quarter of 2002, expenses were higher due to new business associated with the AES acquisition. Favorable foreign exchange effects also contributed to first quarter results, particularly in the year-to-year comparison. Overall margins improved as higher realizations more than offset higher feedstock costs outside the United States. The higher non-U.S. margins were partly offset by lower margins in the U.S. We believe our high-level of feedstock flexibility continues to give us a competitive advantage. 

 Turning now to the company's overall financials, Exxon-Mobil's balance sheet remains strong. At the end of the first quarter, our cash balance was $12.3 billion, exceeding our debt of $10.7 billion. During the quarter, we purchased 35 million shares of our common stock for the treasury, a gross cost of nearly $1.2 billion to reduce common stock outstanding and offset the dilution associated with benefit plans. Our effective tax rate for the quarter was approximately 36%. Corporate and financing expenses of $213 million were up versus both comparison periods. The increase was mainly due to higher U.S. pension costs and Forex effects. The first quarter results were consistent with our 2003 guidance for this segment to range between $175 million and $225 million per quarter. In summary, our very strong first quarter earnings reflected improvements in all parts of our business. Capital spending continued to grow with the timing of our large portfolio of high-quality development projects and continued investment in our profitable base business. Through the end of the first quarter, we are on track to achieve $1 billion of efficiencies this year. Our balance sheet continues to be strong allowing us to pursue all profitable investments. I'm sure you noted yesterday, we announced the quarterly dividend of 25 cents per share, an increase of nearly 9%. I'm also pleased to advise that our 2002 financial and operating review report will be available after the close of trading today on our website, at www.exxonmobil.com. That concludes my remarks, and I'll be glad to take any of the questions that you might have. q-and-a. 

 OPERATOR: Today's question-and-answer session will be conducted electronically. If you would like to ask a question, please press the star key followed by the digit 1 on your touch-tone telephone. We will proceed in the order that you signal. If you're using a speaker phone, make sure that your mute function is turned off to allow your signal to reach our equipment. Once again if you would like to ask a question at this time, please press star 1. We will take our first question from Paul Ting from with Smith Barney. Please go ahead. 

 PAUL TING, ANALYST, SALOMON SMITH BARNEY: Hey, Pat, how you doing? 

 PATRICK MULVA: Morning, Paul. 

 PAUL TING: If I may, two quick questions. One on the volume side, um, your Asian-Pacific refining [indescernible] as well as sales went up very dramatically by more than 10%. I think this is the third consecutive quarter of increases in Asia-pacific downstream volume. Can you give us some color as far as what the cost behind that is? Is it economic turnaround or a nuclear power plant and if you --anything along that line. Secondarily, bring us to date, if you can, on your Venezuela production. 

 PATRICK MULVA: Okay, Paul, first off to answer the question on the downstream in Asia-Pacific, um, right, you will see the higher volumes, our refining volumes and our sales volumes. Clearly the stronger refining margins that we saw in Asia-Pacific impacted those volumes and that drove, um, that drove the volumes. And we are also impacted by the higher demand for a heavy fuel oil associated with the nuclear issues in Japan. Our capacity did increase -- our capacity utilization did increase in Asia-Pacific in this time period as we had less sparing of capacity for economic reasons. So, um, a much improved environment for the first quarter versus what we have seen over the last several quarters in Asia-Pacific. With regard to Venezuelan volumes on the upstream side of the business, I believe that was the question. 

 PAUL TING: Yes. 

 PATRICK MULVA: We're back at full production at Cerro Negro. And the impact on the first quarter volumes was about 35,000 barrels a day. 

 PAUL TING: You were hit by 35,000 barrels per day basically, in the first quarter? 

 PATRICK MULVA: Right. 

 PAUL TING: Okay, so Cerro Negro, you're up to about, what, 50ish right now? 

 PATRICK MULVA: We're basically at capacity at Cerro Negro. 

 PAUL TING: Ok, great. Thanks a lot, Pat, I appreciate it. 

 PATRICK MULVA: Okay, Paul. 

 OPERATOR: We'll take our next question from Doug Terreson with Morgan Stanley. Please go ahead. 

 DOUG TERRESON, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: I have a question of refining and marketing. Specifically, I think you mentioned that lower marketing margins, LIFO effects and the turnarounds which you had at Baton Rouge and Baytown were the primary factors that affected your earnings in Q1 in relation to Q4. So, while I think you mentioned the dollar effect the turnarounds had in relationship to the year-ago quarter. Can you provide some segmentation on the effects that the three factors that you mentioned and any others ones that were material had on earnings in relation to the fourth quarter. 

 PATRICK MULVA: Sure, Doug, I would be glad to. When we look at our overall results in the first quarter of 2003 in the downstream, firstly, um, the absence of the LIFO impact quarter-on-quarter comparison is about $200 million. 

 DOUG TERRESON: Okay. 

 PATRICK MULVA: Negative. Um, we were also impacted in the quarter by, um, our overall turnaround activity. That was all planned and basically completed as scheduled, but that had an impact, um, quarter-on-quarter comparison of about $100 million, a combination of operating expenses and volume impacts. And in addition we had the impact of price finalization in the quarter, which was about a negative hundred-million dollars. Now, offsetting all of that was lower operating expenses, both in refining and marketing, um, which was really the single biggest factor offsetting those negative impacts. 

 DOUG TERRESON: Okay, that's good. And let me ask a question about EMP while I have you. In China, you can talk a bit about Exxon-Mobil's status as it relates to the east-west pipeline, specifically it seems that Petro China has moved forward on that system without full agreement with some of its partners, so I wanted to see if you could give us an update on that situation, specifically, um, you know, how or, you guys expect to be involved in the pipeline system or the upstream component of the program and the timetable, if you have an idea, at this point. 

 PATRICK MULVA: Nothing specific, Doug, on the timetable. What I would tell you that we continue with the discussions along with the other internationals involved, other partners involved. So negotiations continue. 

 DOUG TERRESON: Okay. Thanks a lot. 

 PATRICK MULVA: Sure, Doug. 

 OPERATOR: We will talk our next question from Tyler Dann with Bank of America. Please go ahead. 

 TYLER DANN, ANALYST, BANK OF AMERICA: Good morning, Pat, how are you? 

 PATRICK MULVA: Good morning, Tyler. 

 TYLER DANN: Question, um, a couple of questions on the EMP segment. If you could please comment on two elements. Firstly, directional move in lifting costs both year-over-year and sequentially on a dollar-per-barrel basis and then secondly, it looked as if there was a significant, um, decline in exploration expense both sequentially and year-over-year and I'm curious as to whether that is a function of activity or success, or both, and to what degree, lack of activity or increased success composes that decline, basically. 

 PATRICK MULVA: Let me answer the expiration question first, if I may. The exploration expense, both sequentially and quarter-on-quarter year, the impact is all associated with dry-hole expense. 

 Dry-hole expense in the first quarter of 2003 is lower than the comparison periods in both instances, and there is no signals, less activity level on the exploration side. It is all dry-hole. If we look at our overall operating expenses, of course when you look at, um, operating costs and -- and -- on a quarter basis, it's impacted by the volumes and the rest. But let me kind of step back and comment overall what we're seeing in our operating expenses in the upstream. 

 We're certainly, and you probably recall at our New York conference we talked about the impact we're seeing on increasing D&D associated with our capital investments, but what you will also see is that in our cash-operating expenses we continue to see the impact of our improvement programs helping to drive those costs down on a unit basis, and you know, it's kind of the relentless pursuit of the reduction in cash-operating costs. I'm sure you probably saw our press release here a week or so ago. 

 For example, we announced the consolidation of our office from New Orleans into Houston just another signal of the kinds of steps that we need to take to keep our focus on reducing cash operating costs, so to step back again, we see the upward pressure. But when we look at the overall unit operating expenses for the upstream across the --across the globe, if you will, if we exclude the impact of higher-energy costs and Forex, we're basically flat. 

 TYLER DANN: And that's year-over-year in sequential, I would assume? 

 PATRICK MULVA: Yeah. 

 TYLER DANN: Thank you very much. 

 PATRICK MULVA: You bet, Tyler. 

 OPERATOR: We will take our next question from Stephen Pfeifer with Merrill Lynch. Please go ahead. 

 STEPHEN PFEIFER, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: Hi, Pat. 

 PATRICK MULVA: Morning, Steve. 

 STEPHEN PFEIFER: A couple of questions on the capex specifically on EMP. You guys were up about 23% year-over-year and I know your spending pattern tends to be a little lower in the first quarter and then build. If the quarters hold up similar to last year, I would suggest that you guys might be on track for EMP capex of like 12, 12 1/2 billion, which is a little bit different than what we have been thinking, I think you said a hundred-billion over 10 years. Could you comment a little bit about the outlook for EMP capex? 

 PATRICK MULVA: If we look at our overall capex in the upstream for 2003, we're about -- we are on where we -- what we talked about at our analyst meeting, so no change in the overall year capex as we see it. What you're seeing in the first quarter is, and I think we'll continue to see these kinds of effects, are the impact of these large projects, depending on where we are in the activity levels, and so we will see these kinds of swings because of the large projects but no change, um, in our overall outlook for capex in the upstream. 

 STEPHEN PFEIFER: So $10 billion is still a decent number to think about? 

 PATRICK MULVA: Yes. 

 STEPHEN PFEIFER: Okay. And then the second question was on the worldwide tax rate went from, I guess 35% in 4Q to only about 36% in 1Q, and I think historically, you guys talked about a 40% effective tax rate. Could you talk a little bit about if that's still appropriate, 40%, and what may have depressed the rates in the first quarter. 

 PATRICK MULVA: We're holding with our guidance on our effective tax rate, um, at 40 to 45% on a quarter-on-quarter basis, um, obviously in any given quarter, there is a number of factors that are impacting the overall effective tax rate, and we're just seeing that effect. 

 STEPHEN PFEIFER: So there weren't any sort of tax -- [ Indiscernible ] That came through the quarter, more of a mix. 

 PATRICK MULVA: It really was the mix of the overall financials for the quarter. 

 STEPHEN PFEIFER: Perfect. Okay, thanks a lot, Pat. 

 OPERATOR: We will take our next question from Arjun Murti with Goldman Sachs. Please go ahead. 

 ARJUN MURTI, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Yeah, thank you. You all mentioned in a recent press release the progress on the new technology related to the gas pipeline technology and how that would be applicable to some of your resources and other resources. Could that impact the economics of the Alaskan gas development potential or are you really sort of thinking more about some of the Far East projects, maybe suckling gas to Japan and some of the other southeast Asia type things? 

 PATRICK MULVA: The answer really is yes all around. I think that speaks, first off, you know, our overall diversity of our portfolio that that kind of technology development we can apply to a number of areas around the world. That's why the answer is kind of yes to all. Wherever we're dealing, with the requirements of steel in this case or any other technology, we'll apply it wherever we can see it's best used. So yes on all accounts. 

 ARJUN MURTI: I guess in terms of some of the steel component to the Alaskan pipeline, if there is any guestimate as to what that was, and what order of magnitude reduction this could provide, 10% or 20% or greater. 

 PATRICK MULVA: Arjun, I don't have any specifics on the overall split-up of the capex associated with or projected capex that would be associated with the pipeline, so I can't comment on that. 

 ARJUN MURTI: Okay, great. Thank you. 

 PATRICK MULVA: Okay. 

 OPERATOR: We'll take our next question from Fred Leuffer with Bear Stearns. Please go ahead. 

 FRED LEUFFER, ANALYST, BEAR STEARNS: Morning, Pat. 

 PATRICK MULVA: Morning, Fred. 

 FRED LEUFFER: Um, what was the foreign exchange effects on chemicals? 

 PATRICK MULVA: Well, basically the strengthening of the euro and the pound sterling. As you know, we have a significant presence there, so that's really the favorable impact that we saw in the first quarter. 

 FRED LEUFFER: Can you quantify for us what that did to the number. 

 PATRICK MULVA: In -- let me make sure I know which comparison period are you looking at. 

 FRED LEUFFER: I'm really looking at relative to the fourth quarter, sequentially. 

 PATRICK MULVA: Relative to the fourth quarter, sequentially it was -- bear with me just for a second. It was about -- around 50 mill --around $30 million. 

 FRED LEUFFER: Okay. And you had pretty good volume growth. What are the two or three biggest products where you're seeing the biggest volume growth? 

 PATRICK MULVA: Well, really if you look at our volume growth, I wouldn't say it's across the board, but we have seen it in a number of areas with our capacity additions that we made over, um, the last couple of years. No specifics. 

 FRED LEUFFER: I'm sorry, Pat, say it again? 

 PATRICK MULVA: It's really in a number of product areas. There is no one single product area that is really standing out with with that capacity growth. 

 FRED LEUFFER: Um, you can provide a U.S. and foreign tax rate on EMP? 

 PATRICK MULVA: Let me go back to my -- to the chemicals issue, if I could. Let me give you a little bit more detail here as we looked at some of the volumes. When I look at the comparison period first quarter versus first quarter '02-'03. Polyethylene and aromatics are really the key players in that volume growth. 

 FRED LEUFFER: And that's not just reflective of demand. That's new projects coming on, right? 

 PATRICK MULVA: That's the impact of our new projects and of course the expansion of our sales volumes. But as I said, aromatics and polyethylene are the big players. 

 FRED LEUFFER: Okay. 

 PATRICK MULVA: And I'm sorry, I missed your next question. 

 FRED LEUFFER: I was just wondering if you could provide a U.S. and foreign tax rate on EMP. 

 PATRICK MULVA: We look at -- you know, we really look at the overall tax rate on a blended basis just because of the mix of our operations, so we really will stick with our 40 to 45% guidance and don't really split that up on an individual basis as far as, um, the discussion. 

 FRED LEUFFER: Okay. Just lastly, you made an announcement in the last week or so about consolidating U.S. EMP offices and, um, I know there was no specific cost savings number given out, but what types of efficiency improvements would you expect from that? 

 PATRICK MULVA: Well, really it's the continuation of our global functional organization, um, where we're going to be centralizing the engineering efforts from our New Orleans office into Houston, so largely a staff saving and then of course leveraging off of the strength of the global functional organization. Staff savings. 

 FRED LEUFFER: Okay. Thanks. 

 PATRICK MULVA: Sure. 

 OPERATOR: We will take our next question from Mark Gilman with First Albany. Please go ahead. 

 MARK GILMAN, ANALYST, FIRST ALBANY: Pat, good morning. I had a couple of things. Can you identify what this tax was on the RURE gas gain, please. 

 PATRICK MULVA: If you look at the overall issue on RURE gas, as you probably know, Mark, when you transfer shares in Germany, it is not subject to tax. What you do see, um, is the U.S. tax overlay because, of course, we're a U.S. company. And, um, that's what you see in the net bottom line impact of the, um, of the transfer of the shares. And, you know, we commented that the overall value of the shares was like $2.6 billion. 

 MARK GILMAN: I'm sorry, Pat, I'm having trouble understanding what you're saying. I specifically asked what is the tax burden associated with the gain that you booked. 

 PATRICK MULVA: And we're not going to disclose that. 

 MARK GILMAN: You're not going to say. 

 PATRICK MULVA: Right. 

 MARK GILMAN: Okay. Let me try a couple of other things. I think you said previously, I just want to clarify. A negative $100 million price finalization impact in the worldwide downstream first quarter versus fourth. Was that correct? 

 PATRICK MULVA: That's right. 

 MARK GILMAN: And the fourth quarter was negligible, so it's a negative 100 in the current quarter? 

 PATRICK MULVA: Yeah, that's about right. 

 MARK GILMAN: How is it negative 100 in an environment where at the end of the quarter prices fell through the floor? 

 PATRICK MULVA: Well, you got to -- you look at the ramp up over the quarter, Mark. And that -- that -- I mean we see that through the quarter. So the price finalization, when I talk about it being roughly $100 million, 80, the absolute number in the first quarter was about $80 million of price finalization. 

 MARK GILMAN: Negative. 

 PATRICK MULVA: Right. Offset by a slightly positive 15 to $20 million favorable in the fourth quarter of 2002. 

 MARK GILMAN: Okay. Just a cash-flow oriented question. I'm having some arithmetic problems. In your statistical supplement you identify net cash by operating activities in the quarter, $8.7 billion. If I add earnings and a reasonable estimate of DD&A, I'm going to come up with a number that is about a billion and a half short. Can you help to reconcile that at all? 

 PATRICK MULVA: Um, come back through your math again. 

 MARK GILMAN: I'm focusing on the 8.7 billion cash provided by operating activities. 

 PATRICK MULVA: Okay, you're looking at page 3 of our -- 

 MARK GILMAN: That's correct. Right and adding, you know, cash earnings exclusive of the accounting adjustments and the gain of 4.8 plus a reasonable estimate of DD&A, gets me to a level that's about 1.6, short of the 8.7. 

 PATRICK MULVA: Okay, are you taking into account the finalization on the close of the RURE gas deal? 

 MARK GILMAN: No, because I assumed that that's in the sales subsidiaries. 

 PATRICK MULVA: Right,that's the second half of the -- that's the -- that's the second half of the equation. Of course the earnings impact from the first event that we talked about in the third quarter, um, would be impacting the net cash provided by operating activities. What's included in the sales of subsidiaries investments and PP&E, the $1.3 billion is kind of the second [indescernible]of that RURE gas deal. If you take a look at the 10-Q, we have got some of the details in it. 

 MARK GILMAN: Okay, yeah. And I wanted to work off the production variances that you talked about, just to make sure my arithmetic's correct. Um, the 35,000 Venezuelan quarter-on-quarter hit suggests that the balance of the short fall associated with the combined impact of OPEC quotas, production sharing entitlements, and the Venezuelan disruption is about 50-odd thousand equivalents a day. I'm assuming that's almost entirely in Malaysian gas and Indonesian gas. Is that roughly correct? 

 PATRICK MULVA: Well, let me talk about it on a couple of bases and see if this answers your question. Let's take a look at it from a liquid's basis and a gas basis, see how this works for you. If we look at our overall liquids and the comparison period, I think you're talking about first quarter '02 to first quarter '03, Mark, right? 

 MARK GILMAN: Well I was basically doing, yeah, the comparison implicit in the release. 

 PATRICK MULVA: No, I wanted to make sure you're talking about 1Q, 1Q, or 4Q, 1Q. 

 MARK GILMAN: No, 1Q, 1Q mainly because it says worldwide production would have been up 2% exclusive with the three factors, that's about an increase of 88,000 a day. You said the Venezuelan hit was 35. 

 PATRICK MULVA: Right. 

 MARK GILMAN: So that leaves a balance of 53, and since there was really no quota restrictions in the first quarter, I'm assuming that that's all PSC-related entitlement, which in turn helps to explain why the Asia-Pacific gas number is so low. Am I on the right track? 

 PATRICK MULVA: You're on the right track. On a liquid's basis, the price entitlement or the entitlement impact on the PSC's and the rest is 35,000 barrels a day of liquids and about 80 million cubic feet a day of gas and you're right, almost all of that gas is, um, Malaysia. So you're right. 

 MARK GILMAN: Okay, just one more. FAS 143, can you just comment in general whether or not that, going on a current period and going-forward basis, exclusive of the cumulative adjustment had a positive, negative or neutral impact on your combined provisioning for abandonment, including the new accretion expense. 

 PATRICK MULVA: Once you take or set aside the 550 million -- one-time affect as you suggested, when we look at any comparison period as to the first quarter or last year, it's flat, it's neutral to earnings. 

 MARK GILMAN: Okay, Pat, thank you. 

 PATRICK MULVA: You bet, Mark. 

 OPERATOR: We will take our next question from Matthew Warburton with UBS Warburg. Please go ahead. 

 MATTHEW WARBURTON, ANALYST, UBS WARBURG: Good morning, Pat, a few quick couple of questions on the upstream. On Nigeria, you cited obviously the performance in YOHO. into delivering the higher volumes Did Exxon benefit at all from the problems of the other operators in the country in the first quarter and with -- is that likely to reverse in the second quarter? 

 PATRICK MULVA: Well, kind of hard to say whether or not we benefitted from anybody's, um, short falls or the rest, really as you know, basically, um, the government outlines what our volumes are and that's basically what we have done in the, um, in the quarter. 

 MATTHEW WARBURTON: Right. Okay. Um, moving on to Chad in the last quarter conference call, you indicated the [indescernible]progression was moving swiftly ahead, um, maybe I'm read too much into your comments today, it sounds like we don't get first volumes in the third quarter maybe in the fourth, or you can update us on the progress of that particular project. 

 PATRICK MULVA: Oh no, nothing, double negative here. Nothing negative. Read that as very favorable. The project continues to progress, as we said, ahead of the original schedule, and we will see volumes in the second half of the year and if we kind of step back and look at the full year, it will have a favorable volume effective, you know, somewhere in the vicinity, on a full-year basis of about 15,000 barrels a day. 

 MATTHEW WARBURTON: Right. Okay. 

 PATRICK MULVA: So, no, we're, we're very pleased with that progress. 

 MATTHEW WARBURTON: Okay, just one final upstream one if I may. One of the other projects in Venezuela yesterday was talking about the potential risks to production over the summer of the hydropower shortfall that may be -- may become evident in Venezuela. Are there any comments you can offer in terms of Cerro Negro having gotten the production back on, whether or not there is a risk of production coming down again, because of the shortage of electricity to run the various [indescernible]plants? 

 PATRICK MULVA: Obviously in any of our facilities, the power is an issue. But no, um, no specific comment. 

 MATTHEW WARBURTON: Right. Okay. Fantastic. Thank you. 

 PATRICK MULVA: Thank you, Matthew. 

 OPERATOR: If you would like to ask a question this time, please press star 1, and we'll take our next question from Michael Mayer with Prudential Securities. Please go ahead. 

 MICHAEL MAYER, ANALYST, PRUDENTIAL SECURITIES: Good morning, thank you. Pat, could you tell us the absolute effect of currency in the chemical segment and the corporate and financing segment for the first quarter and what the absolute effect was in the first quarter of last year. 

 PATRICK MULVA: Well, let me make sure I got the question right. You're looking for the Forex effect, the absolute Forex effect? 

 MICHAEL MAYER: Yeah, you mentioned that, I believe if I heard you correctly, that corporate and financing was hurt by unfavorable exchange effects but chemicals benefitted from favorable. I'm trying to put a dollar sign, a dollar figure on the effects. 

 PATRICK MULVA: Sure, sure, um, let me kind of context that from the Forex, why from the overall Forex effect, um, you know, we see -- 

 MICHAEL MAYER: in fact, to more comprehensibly answer the question, and maybe you're going down this path, if you could tell us the foreign exchange effects by segment in each of the three quarters. 

 PATRICK MULVA: Yeah, let me -- let me take a look at something here. When we look at our overall Forex effect for the quarter and do a comparison versus '02, we had a favorable Forex effect of about 200 to $230 million, favorable. And, um, that was split kind of about $100 million in the chemicals and then the balance of it split evenly between the upstream and the downstream. 

 MICHAEL MAYER: And none in the corporate and other? 

 PATRICK MULVA: We had some negative impact in the corporate other associated with financing. But really not all that significant. 

 MICHAEL MAYER: Okay. Well maybe you're just not going to give us the specific number. What was -- what was the dollar value of the foreign exchange gain in chemicals in the first quarter of this year? 

 PATRICK MULVA: Oh, no, you know, as always, you're doing a comparison of two changes, so we tend to look at it on a quarter-on-quarter basis. If you look at the chemicals impact on comparison basis, it was like about $120 million in chemicals when you do the comparison between the first quarter of 2002 and first quarter of '03. 

 MICHAEL MAYER: Okay, um, maybe I'll try one more. Positive effect is $120 million. I mean did you make $120 million and have zero in the first quarter of last year or did you lose 60 last year and make 60 this year so the swing is 120? I want to know the order -- I want to know the dollar value if you can say. 

 PATRICK MULVA: Okay, I would say it's largely the positive impact in the first quarter of '03 because of the strengthening of the euro and the pound sterling. Um, it basically was zero, um, in the first quarter of 2002. So, it's all -- it's all, um, first quarter 2003. 

 MICHAEL MAYER: Okay, and then finally, sorry to belabor the point, as I recall in the non-U.S. downstream, you an $80 million loss in Argentina last year. 

 PATRICK MULVA: Right. 

 MICHAEL MAYER: And I guess it's -- there is a positive roughly 120 million or so this quarter because you said the difference was about 100 million? 

 PATRICK MULVA: Mark, I was kind of rounding those numbers. We don't see any real favorable impact in the first quarter of 2003. It's very small, it's less than $5 million, so think of that in terms of the negative $80 million we talked about a year ago in this quarter and, you know, slightly positive, um, in the first quarter 2003. Less than $5 million. 

 MICHAEL MAYER: Okay, that's what I'm searching for. Thank you, Pat. 

 PATRICK MULVA: Yeah, and I just rounded that number because it looked about $100 million. 

 MICHAEL MAYER: Okay, thanks. 

 PATRICK MULVA: sure. 

 OPERATOR: We'll take our next question from Paul Chang with Lehman Brothers. Please go ahead. 

 PAUL CHANG, ANALYST, LEHMAN BROTHERS: Hi, good morning, Pat. 

 PATRICK MULVA: Hi, Paul. 

 PAUL CHANG: You mentioned that the Asia PSC impact on the liquid is 30,000 barrel per day, and um the gas is about 80 million cubic feet per day. But if I like at sequentially, especially on the Asian gas, um, they are down roughly about 11% or maybe over 200 million cubic feet per day, um, other than the PSC impact, what what else is hurting the gas wallet there? 

 PATRICK MULVA: If you look sequentially in Asia-Pacific, you're right, the bright impact on the PSCs is relatively small versus the total Delta. I think about it in terms of 30 million cubic feet a day in terms of associated with production sharing contracting, et cetera. The rest of it is reduced demand that we saw in Australia and Malaysia. So it's reduced demand. 

 PAUL CHANG: It's not seasonal, is it? 

 PATRICK MULVA: We did see seasonal impact for Australia. 

 PAUL CHANG: Okay. You say it's Australia and Malaysia. 

 PATRICK MULVA: Yeah. 

 PAUL CHANG: In Malaysia, the domestic market, I presume? 

 PATRICK MULVA: Basically, yes. 

 PAUL CHANG: Um, ok, second question, in Canada, I understand what you say that liquid production could be reduced because you want to, um, max out the natural gas stream given the high gas price, but why the Canadian gas actually will be down under that circumstances on a sequential basis, actually down about 6%. Is that a particular projects, maybe the gas is down, under turnaround or some outage? 

 PATRICK MULVA: Well, first off, the comment that I made around the switch between -- the economic decision to switch gas to liquids was really applicable to the United States as opposed to Canada and there we saw that impact on some gas plant processing agreements. If you look at the gas lines in Canada on a sequential quarter basis, um, we had some price entitlement impact roughly 10 million cubic feet a day. The balance of it was it was associated with some, um, maintenance work that we saw at Sable, associated with well work-over, and we expect to see those volumes come back. It was a maintenance issue. 

 PAUL CHANG: How big is that impact? 

 PATRICK MULVA: Um, basically the balance, the balance of the Delta on the total volumes was associated with Sable. We also saw if do you a comparison, some differences in the western part of Canada in the, you know, in the base field operations but not significant. 

 PAUL CHANG: So in other words that we should see the Canadian gas closer to about 1 BCF in the second quarter. 

 PATRICK MULVA: Well, the well work-over efforts at Sable are winding down. So, yes, we'll see the Canadian gas volumes coming back. In fact, we have seen them come back already. 

 PAUL CHANG: Uh-huh. And what is the reason for the Canadian liquids to be down? 

 PATRICK MULVA: And you're looking sequentially. 

 PAUL CHANG: sequentially. Down about 8%. 

 PATRICK MULVA: We had some planned turnaround activity at the SYNcrude operations in Imperial Oil and that accounts for a fairly significant part of the Delta on the liquid's volumes quarter on quarter, and then on the east coast, we had some minor tanker delays that, um, impacted our volumes both at Terra Nova and Hibernia. 

 PAUL CHANG: Okay. Perfect. 

 PATRICK MULVA: So really, kind of a timing issue of work and delay with the tanker. 

 PAUL CHANG: Okay. In the U.S. liquids how big is the order sequential reduction in liquid 1 in this coming, because of our maximizing the gas stream? 

 PATRICK MULVA: Yeah, sequentially, that's about 20,000 barrels a day. So it -- it accounts for basically all the Delta. 

 PAUL CHANG: Perfect. A final question, have you seen any noticable negative impacts in the Asian product sales [indescernible]as related to the SARS outbreak in that region? 

 PATRICK MULVA: Well not really in the first quarter, Paul. 

 PAUL CHANG: I'm not talking about first quarter. I'm more talking about currently into the second quarter. 

 PATRICK MULVA: Well, I think that the industry's going to see an impact because of the announcements by several airlines cutting back on flights and the rest, so, yes we're seeing, you know, somewhere in the vicinity, in the region, um, 15 to 20% reduction in jet fuel. 

 PAUL CHANG: And how about in the gasoline and the diesel demand -- --on the motor fuel. 

 PATRICK MULVA: We haven't seen anything noticeable in the rest of the barrel in the distillates and low gas. But, again, that's early days into the second quarter. The one that we can definitely tell you we have seen is the impact on jet fuel. 

 PAUL CHANG: Wonderful. Thank you. 

 PATRICK MULVA: And again, that's a second quarter versus first, you know, not in the first quarter. 

 PAUL CHANG: Sure. Thank you. 

 PATRICK MULVA: Okay. 

 OPERATOR: We will take our next question from Fadel Gheit with Fahnestock & Co.. Please go ahead. 

 FADEL GHEIT, ANALYST, FAHNESTOCK & COMPANY: Pat and company, good morning, just following up a couple of questions again on the tax but not specifically, um, if I use your volume and your realization and historical costs for [BUE] and I use the 36% or even 37% tax rate, um, I get much higher numbers on U.S. upstream and foreign upstream. Could you explain what's -- what's included in the earnings that we cannot capture using these numbers. 

 PATRICK MULVA: Well, Fadel, I can't specifically address your calculation and what you're doing what. I would tell you is when you look at the 36%, it's the effective tax rate on the whole net income. And I had commented earlier that we saw the impact of the whole mix of our operations, including, um, the transfer of shares for RURE gas and the balance of all of our operations upstream and downstream. I can't really speak to what calculation you're doing. I can simply come back and say that when we look forward, we're still comfortable with our guidance at 40 to 45% for the quarter. 

 FADEL GHEIT: So that U.S. -- the upstream is only fuel volume and -- times net income for dollar, basically. 

 PATRICK MULVA: Well, I mean it's the overall earnings for the upstream. 

 FADEL GHEIT: Right, but there is nothing else included? 

 PATRICK MULVA: No. 

 FADEL GHEIT: Okay. Thank you. 

 OPERATOR: We will take our next question from William [Farrah] with [ Indiscernible ]and Company. Please go ahead. 

 WILLIAM BEHR, ANALYST, WHS REED AND COMPANY: Good morning and at the -- pardon me, at the risk of really ruining an image, um, I would suggest that your responses today, Pat, have been extremely helpful and detailed and it's -- it's really quite appreciated just in general terms. As is the dividend, one would note, of course, that you're sitting there with no net debt or minus net debt, I guess, and, um, so, long-suffering dividend holders certainly do appreciate the Exxon responsiveness to total return, um, question on LIFO and worldwide. 

 Was there any chemicals or refining and marketing, and separate question that was raised about U.S. gas sequentially was all of the Delta, um, fourth to first because of leading liquids into the stream or has Exxon, um, either brought on major new projects or are they accelerating their on-shore activities, offshore activities to respond to price signals. Thanks very much. 

 PATRICK MULVA: Okay, well, first off, let me answer the LIFO question. There are no LIFO impacts in our earnings in any business segment in the first quarter 2003. Zero. With regard to our sequential gas performance in the United States, we're up about a 100 million cubic feet a day, quarter-on-quarter, and, um, about 70 million cubic feet a day of that is associated with the gas processing. 

 The balance of it, again, is -- as you have heard me comment in the past is our continuing emphasis on the base business and successful work programs, um, as we work to sustain volumes as best we can, um, offsetting to whatever degree we can, normal field decline so certainly the lion's share of the Delta is associated with the gas processing, the balance being our continuing focus on our profitable base business. 

 WILLIAM BEHR: Thank you. 

 OPERATOR: Once again, if you would like to ask a question at this time, please press star 1. We'll go next to Jack Aydin with McDonald Invesments. Please go ahead. 

 JACK AYDIN, ANALYST, MCDONALD INVESTMENTS: Hi, Pat. 

 PATRICK MULVA: Jack. 

 JACK AYDIN: On the foreign, um, EMP earnings, again, I don't want to give my calculation or this and that, but is the cost per barrel operating expenses moved up in the first quarter of this year versus last quarter because based on the Delta change in the price, and with the volume that you have I, again, I think your numbers should have been higher than the 2.73 million -- 2.73 billion. Am I, you know, missing something over there or could you shed some light on it. 

 PATRICK MULVA: Well, we're not seeing any -- any dramatic increase on the sequential quarters, um, in the time period quarter in the upstream. 

 JACK AYDIN: Okay. 

 PATRICK MULVA: So I can't help you on that regard. 

 JACK AYDIN: Thanks. 

 OPERATOR: We will take our next question from Paul -- [ Indiscernible ] with Deutsche Bank. Please go ahead. 

 JJ TRAYNOR, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK SECURITIES, INC.: Hi, Pat, it's actually JJ, JJ Traynor. Two questions. First, you mentioned the Qatar gas has been debottlenecked. I want to know where the extra cargos went. Was it Europe, Asia or the U.S. And then secondly, philosophically, just eyeballing the earnings stream, the divisional earnings stream over the last year, the volatility of the earnings looks to me like it's gone up. I wonder if that's an affect that you have noticed, is that a function of introducing the Mobil portfolio into the business and do you think that's an important factor. 

 PATRICK MULVA: Um, JJ, a comment first on the Qatar gas. The sales into the spot market were basically around the globe we had spot market sales into the U.S. and into several other countries. Um, so, again, across the globe, no specific area, um, interesting question with regard to, um, volatility. I would say the volatility that we're seeing is really the market conditions, um, for the total portfolio. Nothing specific associated with the, um, you know, the heritage assets of Exxon and Mobil coming together. 

 JJ TRAYNOR: I guess my question is whether you're finding that the cost structure in the Mobil businesses is actually higher or less resistent to the swings and the cycle than you had expected. 

 PATRICK MULVA: Well, I couldn't draw that conclusion because, of course, with the merger will behind us, our, you know, our field practices and how the business is running is such that we're basically all on the same production operating best practices in the upstream and in the downstream, the same kind of view of the relentless pursuit of reducing our operating costs and so, um, no, we don't see any dramatic difference between the assets and, of course, being all managed on the same, um, system of, you know, costs containment, costs control. 

 JJ TRAYNOR: Well, hey, thanks for your thoughts on that. 

 OPERATOR: We will take our next question from Bob Goodoff with -- [ Indiscernible ] Please go ahead. 

 BOB GOODOFF, ANALYST: My question's been answered. Thanks. 

 PATRICK MULVA: Okay. 

 OPERATOR: We'll go next to Brian McManus with Westwood Management. Please go ahead. 

 BRIAN MCMANUS, ANALYST, WESTWOOD MANAGEMENT: Your share buyback for the first quarter, can you give us any color -- can we use this as a run rate going for the rest of the year, any comment you can make on that? 

 PATRICK MULVA: Well, again, we continued our, you know, our long-standing approach to pretty consistent basis of share buyback and, um, we continue to look at our share buyback as we go forward but, um, we tend to look at this from a long-term standpoint. So we think the share buyback's an important part of our overall portfolio management, um, but we continue to assess it. We like the consistency on it. 

 BRIAN MCMANUS: And any -- can we -- should we expect any change in the last couple of years, I guess. You really -- I hear you saying no, without making an actual forecast. 

 PATRICK MULVA: Well, and it's simply because we tend to take a look at the share buyback program on a go-forward basis on a, you know, quarterly basis and take a look at it and take a look at where we want to be for the next several quarters and, obviously, you have to take into account whatever's going in the world and we do that. 

 BRIAN MCMANUS: Sure. Sure. 

 PATRICK MULVA: We do like the fact that we have been in this share buyback program since we came out of the merger at, you know, roughly the same level. If you look back over that extended period of time, and we think that's -- that's -- that consistency is what our shareholders and investors are looking for from Exxon-Mobil. 

 BRIAN MCMANUS: Also, a second question. Are you targeting any particular yields, it's nice to have that dividend increase. Any particular yield level? Or any new thinking on how you would assess that each quarter? 

 PATRICK MULVA: Well, we really don't set a specific target. It's really taking a look at, as I know you have heard me comment before, taking a look at where we are overall with our cash management and our investment management between our capex, our dividend and our share buyback, so no specific target. 

 BRIAN MCMANUS: Okay, thank you very much. 

 PATRICK MULVA: You bet, Brian. 

 OPERATOR: We'll take a follow-up question from Mark Gilman with First Albany. Please go ahead. 

 MARK GILMAN: Pat, Imperial reported a relatively sizable foreign exchange gain in their corporate segment in the first quarter associated with U.S. dollar denominated debt. When you consolidate Imperial's results, does that gain come through for you? 

 PATRICK MULVA: No. 

 MARK GILMAN: It does not? 

 PATRICK MULVA: No. 

 MARK GILMAN: You sure? 

 PATRICK MULVA: Yeah, I mean most of the, you know, a great percentage of their debt, I believe is U.S. dollar denominated. So we wouldn't see that impact. 

 MARK GILMAN: So that gain that they reported disappears upon consolidation? 

 PATRICK MULVA: We didn't see a major impact in the first quarter associated with that. I mean, as I said, I believe and you would have to talk to Imperial Oil, but most of their debt is U.S. dollar denominated. 

 MARK GILMAN: I know it's mostly U.S. dollar denominated but it's an Exxon decision, not an Imperial decision. 

 PATRICK MULVA: Well, I beg to differ. That's an Imperial Oil decision, not an Exxon-Mobil decision. 

 MARK GILMAN: Could you comment at all on the lube earnings impact on a comparative basis in this period, Pat, in the U.S. and overseas downstream. 

 PATRICK MULVA: Well, we have seen some weakening in the overall lubes margins in this time period, but from a bottom-line total downstream basis, um, not a significant impact, but the margins have been a little bit weaker in the first quarter. 

 MARK GILMAN: And the price finalization numbers you quoted before the 80 million in the first quarter, could you split that U.S. and foreign? 

 PATRICK MULVA: Um, I don't have that detail right in front of me. We can -- let me take a look at something here real quick. Yeah, on the 80 million -- sorry -- on the 80 million dollars, about 60 of it is U.S. And the balance is the rest of the world. 

 MARK GILMAN: Thanks, Pat. 

 PATRICK MULVA: All right, Mark. 

 OPERATOR: We'll take another follow-up question from Tyler Dann with Bank of America. Please go ahead. 

 TYLER DANN: Hi, just a very quick follow-up. Could you please delineate how much of the 35 million shares or 1.2 billion of shares repurchased during the quarter was to offset dilution? 

 PATRICK MULVA: About 6 million of the 35 was to offset dilution. 

 STEPHEN PFEIFER: Thank you very much. 

 PATRICK MULVA: You bet, Tyler. 

 OPERATOR: We'll take another follow-up question from Jack Aydin with McDonald Invesments Inc.s. Please go ahead. 

 JACK AYDIN: Hi, Pat, looking at the chemical segment over the past five quarter, it looks like, you know, your domestics, more or less has been even with -- to certain degrees with foreign. Is this a mix of product that is -- varies from one quarter to other to give this quarter so much variance between the earning of foreign and domestic? 

 PATRICK MULVA: Yeah, I mean we see that -- that pretty consistently when you look at chemicals earnings as far as looking at the overall. We are impacted by the mix, um, whether we're looking at the United States or we're looking at Europe or Asia-Pacific or the rest because of the products and as you know, the margins can differ. This was a perfect example in the first quarter of 2003 where we had some strengthening of margins in, um, in Europe relative to some of the other comparisons where we saw the margins in the United States, um, not as strong. Equally, we saw a commodities prices, commodity margins, excuse me, stronger versus our specialties margins, so, um, yeah, it's that mix affect, and you do see that a lot in our chemicals earnings. You almost have to look at each individual period and see what is happening to the various products to really comment on the ship swings and earnings. 

 JACK AYDIN: Pat, is there domestic, is more specialty chemicals or commodity chemicals? 

 PATRICK MULVA: Well, um, from a volume standpoint, it's commodity chemicals. 

 JACK AYDIN: Thank you. 

 PATRICK MULVA: You bet. 

 OPERATOR: We will take our last question, which is a follow-up from Fadel Gheit with Fhanestock and Company. Please go ahead. 

 FADEL GHEIT: Just a wrap-up, looking at the second half of the month of [indescernible] in the second quarter, where do you see each business going? 

 PATRICK MULVA: Well, Fadel, you know I'm not going to comment on that. Um, as far as where each business is going, I mean we kind of look -- you can look at where the industry is today, but we don't typically comment going forward. 

 FADEL GHEIT: Let me be more specific. I mean, are you seeing final stability or improvement in the economy, especially in Asia, Europe, in terms of chemical and downstream specifically? 

 PATRICK MULVA: Well, I'm probably not qualified to comment on the economies all around the world. I would just simply say that you look at what is happening around the world and whatever's happening in the industry, we're going to see those kind of impacts on our earnings, where weather it's upstream, downstream or our chemical business. 

 FADEL GHEIT: Okay, thank you. 

 OPERATOR: This will conclude the question-and-answer session, Mr. Mulva, I will turn the call back to you for closing comments. 

 PATRICK MULVA: Once again, I would like to thank everyone for your participation in our earnings teleconference. And again, I'll remind you that our financial and operating review report will be available at the close of trading today, um, on our website and once again, thank you for your participation. 

 OPERATOR: This does conclude the Exxon-Mobil Corporation first quarter 2003 conference call. We do thank you for your participation and you may disconnect at this time. 

 [CCBN reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes. 

 In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized. 

 THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES CCBN ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. Copyright 2003, CCBN, Inc. All Rights Reserved.] 

 [Copyright: Content copyright 2003 CCBN, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Electronic format, layout and metadata, copyright 2003 FDCH e-Media, Inc. (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.) ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user's personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon CCBN's or FDCH e-Media's copyright or other proprietary rights or interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CCBN and FDCH e-Media so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CCBN and FDCH e-Media as the originators and copyright holders of such material. This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation.] 

   CO
exxn : Exxon Mobil Corporation
   IN
i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1300003 : Crude Petroleum Extraction
   AN
Document fndw000020030501dz51003pi
  


 HD
 Q4  2002  Exxon  Mobil Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final 
   WC
11,203 words
   PD
30 January 2003
   ET
04:00 PM GMT
   SN
FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
 (c) CCBN and FDCH e-Media. All Rights Reserved. 

   LP
 OPERATOR: Had this is premier conferencing and you're currently on hold for today's Exxon Mobil conference call. At this time we're admitting additional participants and should be under way shortly. We thank you for your patience and please continue to stand by. Please stand by. Good day and welcome to this Exxon Mobil fourth quarter 2002 earnings conference call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time, for opening remarks, I would like to turn the call over to the Vice president of investor relations, Mr. Patrick T. Mulva. Please go ahead, sir. 

   TD
 PATRICK T. MULVA, VICE PRESIDENT OF INVESTOR RELATIONS, SECRETARY, EXXON MOBIL: Thank you and welcome to exxon mobil's teleconference and web cast on fourth quarter and full year 2002 financial and operating results. My remarks today include projections, estimates, expectations, plans and other forward-looking statements on topics such as market conditions, future production, capital expenditures, expense efficiencies and U.S. Pension expenses, corporate and financial expenses, project schedules and culpable resources. Actual results could differ materially due to factors I discuss and factors noted in our S.E.C. Filings. 

 In particular, I refer you to factors affecting future results included in item one of our latest form 10K and also posted on our web site. These statements are based on management's information and belief at the time of this call. And we assume no duty to revise, correct or update these statements as of any future time. Exxon Mobil's fourth quarter net income was $4.1 billion or 60 cents per share. And represents the corporation's highest net income since the second quarter of 2001. 

 These results included a $400 million gain from the sale of our Chilean copper business and $100 million of additional merger expenses. Excluding merger effects, discontinued operations and other special items, fourth quarter earning were just under $3.8 billion or 56 cents per share. 

 On this basis, earnings increased 32% over the fourth quarter of 2001. And 39% over the third quarter of 2002. Reflecting the overall improved results for the corporation. Nearly $400 million in cost efficiencies were achieved in the fourth quarter. Bringing the total to more than $1 billion for full year 2002. 

 Compared with premerger operations, we have delivered approximately $7 billion in cost efficiencies and revenue enhancements. These results reflect the strength of our global functional organization. 

 In the fourth quarter, we continue to make exxon -- excellent progress in the planning, development and implementation of major upstream projects and in delivering cost efficiencies in our base business. I'll briefly cover some of the events for the quarter. In the upstream, we made further progress on our major projects. 

 Late in the quarter, we initiated production at Yoho in Nigeria. The early start-up of production at Yoho represents the first in the plan deployments of early production system vessels. Which enabled first oil to be produced almost two years ahead of full field start-up, resulting in enhanced project returns. 

 Yoho production from this system will ramp up to 90,000 barrels per day gross prior to full field start-up. Work progressed on two additional early production system vessels. The next of which will be deployed at Chicago am ba in Angola block 15 for start up in the fourth quarter of this year. The third vessel will be deployed to equatorial Guinea next year. Ga samba a and b continue to progress with cassam ba starting up next year. Each will develop approximately one billion barrels and reach production capacity of 250,000 barrels per day. 

 Also in nigeria, Exxon Mobil began construction of the air development which is scheduled to start up in late 2005. This project has an estimated $500 -- 500 million barrels of recoverable resources. We continue to make excellent progress on the major chad cam ruin project which is expected to develop one billion barrels of oil and we're anticipating start-up in the third quarter of this year, significantly ahead of schedule. In the fourth quarter, we announced discoveries in Kazakhstan and the north sea. 

 Additional data analysis and studies are being conducted to fully evaluate the discovery in Kazakhstan. The second discovery is located in the southern sector of the north sea. In the middle east, Ellen g continues to provide significant opportunities for us. 

 During the quarter, a heads of agreement was signed between Ross gas and ani which is expected to begin in 2004. Work on the stock of one project in Russia continued with the awarding of additional contracts for construction on the project. 

 Earlier this week, we announced additions to our worldwide proved oil and gas reserves of 1.9 billion oil barrels in 2002. Replacing 117% of production including property sales. This marks the ninth consecutive year of reserve replacements in excess of 100%. 

 In the downstream, we continue to cut capture significant operational efficiencies through the application of common operating systems. For example, the global energy management system has driven down the energy consumption of our manufacturing plants. Our marketing, retail site operations initiative has delivered significant expense efficiencies at our retail sites. 

 Our proprietary sulfur reducing process was licensed to additional refineries in the fourth quarter bringing the total number of refineries using this technology to 26. A framework was signed by sign know peck and Exxon Mobil strengthening the alliance between the two companies and marking progress in our joint venture projects under development in both guan tawn provinces. 

 Also in the fourth quarter, we announced plans to invest $100 million in a groundbreaking Stanford University project. This project is dedicated to researching new options for commercially viable technology systems for energy supply and that have the capabilities to substantially reduce green house gas emissions. This global climate and energy project will be led by Stanford University and will involve world renowned academic research institutions and global companies including ourselves, general electric and somber shea. Let's turn to some of the business line results. 

 Fourth quarter upstream earnings of $3 billion were up $1.3 billion from the fourth quarter of 2001. Due to very strong commodity prices, and higher gas volumes. Higher production for more profitable fields resulted in a favorable production mix and also helped improve earnings in the quarter. Compared to the third quarter, upstream earnings were up $510 million. The improvement was mainly a result of higher seasonal volumes and higher natural gas prices. 

 Excluding the special charge, we lated to the U.K. Tax rate change, full year 2002 earnings were $9.8 billion down over $900 million compared with 2001. The lower earnings were primarily due to lower natural gas prices. Now, for some -- summary, let me over -- on an oil equivalent basis, we increased liquids and natural gas capacity for the quarter and the full year by 1% versus the comparable periods in 2001. 

 Actual binds were -- volumes were flat with the impact of OPEC restrictions. Liquids performance, exxon mobil's average crude realizations were up significantly compared with the fourth quarter of 2001. 

 For the full year, average crude realizations were up nearly 5% and compared favorably with market crudes as production from our heavy oil fields had a positive impact on average realizations. In the United states, fourth quarter liquid buy-ins were down compared with the same period in 2001. As field decline was not fully offset by our work programs. Looking sequentially, field decline was largely offset by work programs and seasonably higher volumes in Alaska. 

 Canadian liquid volumes were up versus both the fourth quarter of 2001 and the third quarter. Increased production from the tara nova and coal lake expansion projects and improved performance at hibernia, more than offset the field declines. 

 In europe, projects and work programs did not fully offset field decline compared with the fourth quarter of 2001. Lower downtime resulted in higher liquids volumes versus the third quarter. While the north sea is a mature production region it, remains a significant part of our production portfolio. 

 In west africa, liquids volumes in the fourth quarter were up 5% compared with the same period in 2001. OPEC restrictions were more than offset by new production from projects including ger sol in angola, Yoho in Nigeria and equatorial Guinea. Liquid volumes were down due to OPEC quota restrictions. 

 In Asia pacific, field decline was largely offset by build-up from the large products in malaysia, seasonal and price factors contributed to lower fourth quarter liquids volumes versus both comparison periods. Liquid volumes in the rest of the world were up from the fourth quarter of last year in flat compared with the third quarter. 

 In venezuela, despite the December production loss, crude volumes were flat versus the fourth quarter of 2001. Looking at the full year liquids results, new project build-up and work programs offset field declines. Actual volumes were down slightly in 2002 due to the impact of OPEC restrictions. Now, turning to natural gas results. 

 Fourth quarter average real [INAUDIBLE] were up 25% verse ow both the fourth quarter of 2001 and the third quarter of 2002. But we're down for the full year comparison due to strong natural gas prices early in 2001. In the fourth quarter, our total natural gas volumes were up 3% compared to the same period in 2001. 

 Reflecting higher European demand and the return to full production levels at aruin. Natural gas volumes were up almost 2% for the full year. New projects and work programs offset field decline. Lower demand due to warmer European weather early in the year partially offset the resumption of production at aruin. 

 In the U.S., volumes in the fourth quarter were down versus both fourth quarter of 2001 and the third quarter. Expected field decline in unscheduled downtime due to storm impacts were not fully offset by new projects and work programs. 

 Canadian natural gas volumes were down when compared with the same period in 2001 due to expected field decline that was partially offset by work programs. Compared with the third quarter, volumes were lower largely due to scheduled maintenance. 

 In europe, natural gas volumes were up versus the fourth quarter of 2001. As new projects and work programs largely offset field decline and demand was up due to colder winter weather. Looking sequentially, volumes were up significantly. Primarily due to weather conditions. Compared with the same period last year, natural gas volumes in Asia Pacific were up 6% from work programs. 

 Productions from new malaysia projects and the benefits from full aruin production. Looking sequentially, volumes were down primarily due to seasonal factors. Command for it continued to grow. 

 In summary, upstream operating results were very strong as compared to the fourth quarter of 2001. With significantly higher crude and natural gas realization and higher natural gas production volumes. Our capital projects are progressing on plan with our upstream capex for the fourth quarter at $2.9 billion. That's a 9% increase versus the same period in 2001. 

 For the full year of 2002, we have invested about $10.4 billion in the upstream. That's an increase of 18% over the previous year and consistent with our drive for long-term capacity growth. In addition to an excellent portfolio of large projects under development, the substantial part of our capital is spent on managing our very profitable-based business. 

 In 2002, we spent over $4 billion on our base business. A level consistent with prior years. Our strong financial position allows us to pursue all profitable opportunities without sacrificing attractive investments in our base business. Now, let's turn to the downstream. 

 Fourth quarter earnings of $821 million improved significantly compared to the third quarter. Up by about $700 million. Higher industry Mark margins and improved refinery operations accounted for the majority of this improvement. A permanent reduction in operating inventory levels generated a gain. Compared to the fourth quarter of 2001, earnings were down almost $200 million. Weaker industry refining and fuels marketing margins reduced earnings by $350 million. 

 However lower operating expenses and improved refinery operations partially offset the lower margins. Looking at volumes, total petroleum product sales in the fourth quarter of 2002 were essentially flat compared to the same period last year. Full year downstream earnings of $1.3 billion in 2002 were down 2.9 billion from 2001. Benefits from improved refinery operations, improved margins and expense reductions, partially offset significantly lower margins across our refining and fuels marketing businesses. Now, looking at the regions in the United states, the downstream made $403 million in the fourth quarter. 

 Up $122 million versus the same period last year. Primarily due to reduced operating expenses, higher margins in our fuels marketing business and inventory reductions. Versus the third quarter, earnings were up $361 million. Again, the improved refinery operations at our gulf coast refineries reduced operating expenses across all of our operations and higher margins contributed to the higher earnings. Lower inventories also had a positive impact. Earnings from non-u.S. 

 Downstream of nearly $420 million in the fourth quarter decreased by $320 million when compared with the fourth quarter of 2001. Weaker industry margins contributed over $350 million to the decline. Reduced operating expenses in our fuels marketing business and improved refinery operations partially offset the lower margins. Versus the third quarter earnings were up by $335 million primarily due to improved industry marketing and refining margins. 

 Throughout 2002, our downstream functional organization continued to focus on delivering cost efficiencies and revenue enhancements to offset the extremely poor margin environment. These efforts have delivered tangible bottom line results. Now, turning to chemicals. 

 Chemicals set a new sales record in 2002 of $26.9 -- of 26.9 million tons, an increase of 4% over the previous record set last year. Full year 2002 earnings excluding special items were up $123 million to $823 million. Earning from higher sales volumes more than offset the impact of low margins. Fourth quarter earnings of $76 million were down $130 million versus the fourth quarter 2001. And were down $277 million compared with the third quarter. 

 The majority of the decrease is a result of lower margins due to rising stock prices. Prices Rose by 20% in the fourth quarter. A tax rate change in Singapore and operating expenses associated with increased maintenance activity in the quarter also reduced fourth quarter earnings. 

 During the fourth quarter, we concluded the sale of our Chilean copper business to anglo America. Gains from this sale were $400 million. Now, as previously disclosed in an 8k, we have resegmented our financials with remaining coal operations included in upstream results. 

 Looking at the overall financials, exxon mobil's balance sheet remains extremely strong. Our cash balance was $7.2 billion and debt was $10.7 billion at the end of the year. Our debt-to-capital ratio is 12.2% and the net capital -- net to debt capital ratio is 3.4%. 

 During the fourth quarter, Exxon Mobil purchased 34 million shares of our common stocks of the treasure at a groscost of nearly $1.2 billion. Reducing the number of shares outstanding by 20 million. Excuse me. 29 million. The effective tax rate for the fourth quarter was about 35%. And the effect of tax rate for the full year was about 40%. 

 The corporation continued to benefit from the favorable resolution of tax related issues. Our net merger expenses for the quarter were $100 million. This reflects the final merger cost from consolidation of redundant facilities and staffing reductions and concludes our use of the merger segment. In total, net merger expenses have been about $400 million. This compares very favorably with the $600 million net cost estimate discussed at the time of the merger. 

 Also, this net cost has been more than offset by significant benefits. An estimated $7 billion by the end of 2002 of cumulative merger and global functional organizational synergies. Corporate and finance charges for the fourth quarter were $109 million up slightly compared with the same period last year and in line with our previous guidance of $100 to $150 million. This segment is higher than the third quarter primarily due to the look of favorable forex effects. 

 For the full year, corporate and finance charges were up $300 million versus 2001. Primarily due to higher pension costs and lower interest income. For future quarters, we expect the corporate and finance segment to range between $17 a million and $225 million per quarter, mainly reflecting higher pension expense. 

 Our first quarter 2003 results will be impacted by the adoption of fab 143 which changes the method of accruing for upstream site restoration cost. It is estimated that this change will positively impact earnings between $500 and $700 million and will be treated as a special item. 

 In closing, our 2002 upstream earnings were strong despite lower natural gas prices and the impact of OPEC restrictions on liquid volumes. The downstream industry fundamentals were extremely week with historically low average marketing for the year. 

 In chemicals, we increased sales volumes leveraging our new production caps ait in Singapore and the middle east and reported stronger earnings despite very weak margins. We continue to maintain focused on our profitable base business in all of our business units. While we are progressing a significant portfolio of diverse upstream opportunities, we're able to do both effectively managing our profitable growth opportunities while safely and efficiently operating our business base -- our base business. We believe our functional organizational approach provides us with a competitive advantage. 

 As an example, 2002 was another record year in safety for Exxon Mobil. Further improving upon our industry-leading performance. We believe this result reflects the discipline and commitment our people have in all aspects of our business. I look forward to seeing many of you at our March analyst meeting and I'll now take your questions. 

 OPERATOR: Thank you. The question and answer session will be conducted electronically. If you have a question, please press the star key followed by the digit 1 on your touch tone telephone. We'll pause for just a moment. Our first question is from Tyler Dann with Banc of America Securities. 

 TYLER DANN (ph), BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES: Hi, Pat and everyone else. 

 PATRICK T. MULVA: Good morning, Tyler. 

 TYLER DANN (ph): Good morning. Pat, it looks as if there was some -- at least relative to our expectations, some decent strength in the non-u.S. Downstream and I wondered if you might try to give us a little bit of granularity in terms of Europe versus Asia Pacific and other areas. Was there any particular area that showed strength and I guess in particular, how did the japanese business do in the quarter? And what might be the outlook there in light of the nuclear outages we've seen in the country? 

 PATRICK T. MULVA: Let me comment about first off the overall downstream results and then hopefully provide a little bit of the detail that you're talking about in the fourth quarter. First off, our results were positively impacted around the world by some very favorable operating results. The way our refineries ran as well as the expense efficiencies that we saw in both refining and the balance of our downstream and our marketing operations which help the results not only in the United States but literally around the world. And that is a primary impact on -- as I said, both the U.S. And the non-u.S. Operations as far as we're concerned. 

 Your comment on U.S. versus non-U.S., if we look at our overall operating costs, down or improved in the quarter, they're probably a little bit bigger impact in the non-u.S. Versus the U.S. but both favorable. Your question with regard to around the rest of the world, we certainly saw strengthening in margins in the period which impacted the results and in Japan, of course, while we're coming from a very, very poor base, we did see some improvement with the result of the nuclear shutdown issue there and sales improvements in the region. But again, we -- the Japan refining margins are still very weak but improved versus the prior period. 

 TYLER DANN (ph): Ok. And just while we're on the downstream, it looks as if the inventory movements and the benefits you might have received from those -- were they sequentially and year after year kind of offsetting -- can you comment on that a little bit? And in terms of the tax related issues, the resolution of them, what was the benefit in this particular quarter relative to the year over year and sequential third quarter? 

 PATRICK T. MULVA: Downstream results were impacted by around $200 million for reductions in inventories and that number is about comparable year on year fourth quarter of 2001 versus fourth quarter 2002 and of course, we had no life faux earnings impact in the third quarter of 2002. Obviously the real key for us is with this recognition of lipo is we've continued to reduce our operating working capital through these planned reductions in inventory. 

 In fact, when you look at this draft in inventory that's allowed us to reduce our working capital by $275 million, it is a real strong point because if you look at what we've done since the merger, I think we've taken about a billion dollars of working capital out of the system with these inventory reductions. 

 TYLER DANN (ph): Ok. Perfect. And just -- the tax and then I'll let you go and say thank you. 

 PATRICK T. MULVA: Help me out. 

 TYLER DANN (ph): The favorable tax resolutions you that mentioned. That helped you in the quarter. Helped you in the year. Can you demonstrate or tell us if there's any particular positive impact on this quarter relative to other quarters, the fourth quarter '01 and the third quarter '02? 

 PATRICK T. MULVA: There aren't significant swings when you look at sequential or quarter on quarter comparisons. We do just want to recognize is that in our results, we'll have as we've always reported, some favorable tax effects but they're not driving any of the period. 

 TYLER DANN (ph): That's perfect. Thanks very much. 

 PATRICK T. MULVA: Ok, Tyler. 

 OPERATOR: Our next question comes from ard [Ewan Perioddy] from Goldman Sachs. 

 EWAN PERIODDY (ph), GOLDMAN SACHS: Can you comment at all on Venezuela and if you have any estimates of how your facilities are doing down there. Do you have any awareness of any damage or estimates of how long or how much cost it might take to bring things back on-line and any impact on what you think may be going on? 

 PATRICK T. MULVA: Well, I think it would be very difficult to speculate on what's going to happen there and on the timing. I'll make a couple of comments specific to our facilities. 

 First off, you made a comment around damages or what have you. We have not experienced any damage or any of that nature to our facilities. Clearly, we lost volumes in the fourth quarter were the result of what was happening in Venezuela. If you look at it say on a sequential basis, we lost about 10,000 barrels a day of production. 

 I think the real key for us is that as and when the country situation improves, we would see that our volumes would come back within a period of several weeks and we would be back to the volumes that we've produced at sheer in the past. So, our assessment right now is when the infrastructure is back in place as far as utilities and pipelines are available for our use -- for our use which is out of our control, we would be back on-line within a matter of two to three weeks. 

 EWAN PERIODDY (ph): Very helpful. Thank you. One follow-up. Any update to your outlook for U.S. gas volumes for '03 or long-term? Obviously there is a natural decline there. Should we expect the decline rates to continue? 

 PATRICK T. MULVA: I think if you look at the information we've shown in the past around not only the U.S. But North America, natural gas, we're right on target with what we have said in the past. The projects that we're implementing and the work programs that we're doing to offset the field decline are operating just as we've talked about in the past. 

 EWAN PERIODDY (ph): That's great. Thank you, Pat. 

 PATRICK T. MULVA: Sure. 

 OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Fred Leuffer with Bear Stearns. 

 FRED LEUFFER (ph), BEAR STEARNS: Hi, Pat. 

 PATRICK T. MULVA: Hi, Fred. 

 FRED LEUFFER (ph): Just two quick questions. Was there an oil and transit impact and in refining and marketing in the fourth quarter? 

 PATRICK T. MULVA: Oil and transit. You mean equalization? 

 FRED LEUFFER (ph): Yes. Oil on the water. We had some impact on that. If you look at our fourth quarter, it was a slightly positive impact not significant. And secondly, can you give us components of cash flow for 2002. Tax, asset sales? 

 PATRICK T. MULVA: Well, you know, we reported that our cash from operations was kind of in the $24 billion range and if you look at it just in round numbers, $11.5 to $12 billion billion of earnings and then about $8 billion of depreciation. I was talking round numbers. If you look at the earnings and you look at the depreciation, it is about $20 billion of cash from operations and then our asset sales are somewhere in the vicinity of about $2.5 billion and our working capital changes are about $1.5 billion. So, that kind of closes to the $24 billion of cash from operations. That help? 

 FRED LEUFFER (ph): That's very helpful. Thank you. 

 OPERATOR: Now, we'll hear from Jennifer Rowland with J.P. Morgan. Your line is open Ms. Rowland. 

 PATRICK T. MULVA: Maybe we should go to the next question. 

 OPERATOR: Our next question is from Paul Ting with Salomon Smith Barney. 

 PAUL TING (ph), SOLOMON SMITH BARNEY: Hi, pat, how you doing? Pat, question on inventory reduction. Did you say that gain associated with inventory reduction in the U.S. is about $200 million in the fourth quarter? 

 PATRICK T. MULVA: No, that's our total inventory gain. 

 PAUL TING (ph): Ok. How much of that is in U.S. if you can break that out at all? 

 PATRICK T. MULVA: We don't typically break it out because we kind of manage it across the entire spectrum but I think a little bit over half of it was in the U.S. 

 PAUL TING (ph): Ok. Now, I think previously, there was a guidance about the fact that inventory gain as a result -- inventory --physical inventory is expected to decline by about 30 million barrels as a result of the combination of Exxon Mobil. Sounds to me like you on a have exceeded the target. If so, can you give us quantifications on how much physical inventory has come out of the system due to the combination? 

 PATRICK T. MULVA: Let me look at it in terms of -- I'll kind of repeat what I said earlier. Look at it in terms of working capital and when we look at since year end 1998, we basically have take an little over a billion dollars of working capital off the books and so that's really the way we tend to look at it from the overall financial impact. 

 PAUL TING (ph): Ok. So, if assume kind of oil price and divide into it, I can get a proxy for boil barrels then? 

 PATRICK T. MULVA: Yes. 

 PAUL TING (ph): Ok. Fair enough. The last question on the downstream, can you comment about your status of shifting from MTBE to ethanol in California. I know you've targeted fourth quarter of last year. I don't know whether there was a target of completing date or initiating date. Are you completed in terms of your switching over from MTBE to ethanol? 

 PATRICK T. MULVA: We're completed on that. We're on our plan for what we said we were going to do. 

 PAUL TING (ph): Ok. Great. Thanks a lot. 

 PATRICK T. MULVA: You bet. 

 OPERATOR: Now from W. H. Reeves and company, we'll hear from William bearer. 

 UNIDENTIFIED: Hey, Pat, how you doing. Two questions. Simple question, if we take the change in expectations of the corporate finance from previous guidance to new guidances, virtually all of the increase or almost all the increase tensions or is there any other factor because I thought pensions had been a factor ongoing. 

 Separate question, I believe you said $7.2 billion approximately cash year end and Exxon's very careful use of cash going forward and given the emphasis on dividends in exxon's spectacular track record historically of raising dividends, it's counterintuitive to have seen the board lead the dividend rate unchanged without putting in the position of speaking for the board. Could you just talk about that policy just in general? 

 PATRICK T. MULVA: Glad to. First, let me answer your question on pension. Of course, last year, we gave guidance and increased the corporate financial segment guidance in recognition of higher pension expenses in 2002. And we are again raising the guidance for the corporate financial segment and that increases all directly attributable to higher pension expense. So, you're right. We did raise it in 2002 and we're increasing it again in 2003. And in terms of rough numbers, I think that's about a $50 million increase in our guidance which is in line with our projections on additional pension expense. 

 In corporate and finance segments. So, it is all pension. With regard to cash, of course, we certainly appreciate the positive comments. We're very proud of the fact that we paid dividends for over 100 years running. I don't think there are many corporations that can say that and we've continued to raise our dividend over an extended period of time and a track record as well that we're very proud of. You are right. We did end the year with the cash at $7.2 billion and as always, our policy with regard to the management of the financials of Exxon Mobil and cash in particular is to strive to achieve a balance that provides a maximum return to shareholder value. 

 And so consequently, what we see perhaps versus some different views from others is that we think it is very important to maintain a share buyback program, a dividend program and then, of course, the lion's share of the cash obviously going into the reinvestment of the business where we have by any measure, industry-leading returns. So, the policy from the board is simply that. To achieve that balance of strong investments into the business. Share buyback and dividend. Of course, the board will continually look at the dividend and you know, as I said, we're very proud of that track record and I'm sure we don't want to fool with that track record but that's really the policy. 

 UNIDENTIFIED: Thank you. It wasn't meant to be a commercial but thanks. [ laughter ] 

 OPERATOR: Next we have Matthew Warburton from UBS Warburg. 

 MATTHEW WARBURTON (ph), UBS WARBURG: You finally reconciled the operating cost of the third quarter result and I noticed first nine months -- months the reduction was $17 a billion. You're now saying $1.1 billion for the full year. Is it the energy price that eroded some of the gain we saw in the first nine months? 

 PATRICK T. MULVA: That's exactly it, Matthew. You're right. We commented about the energy impact and obviously we're impacted by the higher natural gas and crude providers in -- prices in our operations and that is the difference. 

 MATTHEW WARBURTON (ph): Right. Another thing, you gave us obviously a very broad brush reconcile of the working cash flow. The working capital issues for Fred's question. You benefited in the third quarter of a substantial injection as your corking -- working capital from your affiliate. Is that reversed or will it reverse because obviously that is a fairly sizable component to the cash flow. 

 PATRICK T. MULVA: Matthew, you're absolutely right. That is included in our working capital and you know, we're awaiting the outcome of that deal. 

 MATTHEW WARBURTON (ph): So, that could potentially reverse sometime during 2003. 

 PATRICK T. MULVA: Hard to say it will reverse. Don't know. 

 MATTHEW WARBURTON (ph): Right. Ok. Finally, I apologize. I've been jumping out of the office. Did you clarify the tax impact in Singapore? Obviously the result was weak. You highlight that as an issue. Can you quantify what that dollar amount was or what's going on there? 

 PATRICK T. MULVA: Well, I think the story in chemicals and the story, really the issue in chemicals for us is that when you look at the earnings in the fourth quarter, they were dramatically impacted by the very, very weak margins. And what I had commented on earlier was that that really is the lion's share -- if you look, for example, at our performance in the fourth quarter, versus the fourth quarter of 2001, we're down some $130 million. $100 of that $130 million is due to very weak margins. 

 If you look at chemicals -- if the chemicals business over the last three years and you look at that in terms of quarters, say 12 quarters, the margins -- our margins in chemicals were the second worst of those 12 quarters. And that really is what is driving the results and so, for example, as I said in just doing a quick reconciliation of the fourth quarter versus the fourth quarter, down $130 million, $100 million of the $130 million is a combination of cost of good sold margin impacts and the balance of that negative is a combination of some higher maintenance expenses associated with work that we did in the fourth quarter along with the Singapore tax effect and a number of other items so really, the chemicals results in the fourth quarter are being driven by the very, very weak margins that fell off substantially from third quarter 2002. 

 MATTHEW WARBURTON (ph): Ok. One quick one if I may. On the pension side, you talked about high costs. I presume no changes to assumptions or any charge to other income at the end of the year? 

 PATRICK T. MULVA: No specific changes. We're going through the same work that we would go through every year in tick taking a look at the pension and the requirements or funding and the rest so, we'll probably have more to say about that as we go through the year but for now, no change other than the guidance I've given from an earnings perspective. 

 MATTHEW WARBURTON (ph): Thanks very much. 

 OPERATOR: We'll now hear from Mark Gillman with First Albany Corporation. 

 MARK GILLMAN (ph), FIRST ALBANY CORPORATION: Pat, good morning. Couple of questions. 

 PATRICK T. MULVA: Ok. 

 MARK GILLMAN (ph): In the past, you've talked about guidance on effective tax rate in the 40% to 45% range. Wonder if you could either reaffirm or change that figure for the current year and maybe put a little bit of a commodity price sense on it. As to how you see it. 

 PATRICK T. MULVA: Mark, we're going to stick with our guidance on our effective tax rate of between 40% to 45% and we have taken a look at the tax rates over quarters and over years and we're still really very comfortable with that guidance in the 40% to 45% range. If you look at the average tax rate, over the last couple of years, it is on the low end of that guidance but again, we kind of look forward, we think that's the appropriate level to be at from a tax guidance standpoint. So, we'll stick with that. Help me out with your second question. 

 MARK GILLMAN (ph): I'm just asking how that might be biased by prices. I assume higher in the range with higher prices, lower in the range for lower prices. Is that accurate? 

 PATRICK T. MULVA: Yeah, you're right from the standpoint that with the higher prices, generating additional earnings in the upstream segment where we typically would have a higher effective tax rate depending upon which country it comes from but I think that that's accurate assessment. 

 MARK GILLMAN (ph): Ok. I wanted to shift to the oil and gas reserve statement and the release and was hoping that you might be able to help to quantify or clarify some of the specifics of the additions to proven reserves in '02 and exactly what triggered them in each of the areas indicated. 

 PATRICK T. MULVA: Sure. Of course, as you know, we announced here earlier this week that reserve replacement ratios, 117%. You know, let me make a couple of comments about it. When you look at our reserve ADS and I think we appropriately reflected in our press release it, goes back to the fundamental strength of exxon -- of exxon mobil's widely-diverse portfolio because when you look at the reserve ADS we made, they kind of span the globe if you could say that because we had reserve ADS in west Africa. 

 We had reserve ADS in Russia. In the United States. In Norway. Azerbaijan. Canada. The U.K. You look at it again, it is not any one single area. 

 It is the overall strength of the portfolio that allowed us to add this $1.9 oil barrel equivalent. Interestingly enough, no one single country or project added more than say 12% to 15% to the reserve base so again, it is that wide portfolio that's helped us again have those kind of results. 

 MARK GILLMAN (ph): What triggered the increase for [INAUDIBLE ] 

 PATRICK T. MULVA: The specific project we announced that was talked about in the fourth quarter. 

 MARK GILLMAN (ph): I'm sorry. What project was that, Pat? 

 PATRICK T. MULVA: The announcement we made in the fourth quarter. The gas injection project. 

 MARK GILLMAN (ph): The one that just recently got off the skids so to speak. 

 PATRICK T. MULVA: Well, it was certainly on the skids at the end of the fourth quarter and yeah, we kind of went -- with a bump in the road there and yeah, it is on screen. 

 MARK GILLMAN (ph): Ok. Have you downgraded air hock reserves? Sounds like you have. 

 PATRICK T. MULVA: Really, we weren't going to go into any details so no comment on that. 

 MARK GILLMAN (ph): Were there any specific an Golan projects sanctioned for development in 2002? I thought the Angola projects, in were all sanctioned and that's why I was surprised to see them mentioned as reserve ADS. 

 PATRICK T. MULVA: One of the things that we do and there are some that we go through every year, you take a look at the projects that you've already sanctioned and as you go through development drilling and the rest, you get a little more information about the nature of that project which allows us to add reserves as we go through the process. So, when we talk about reserve ADS in those parts of the country -- of the world, we can see ADS on projects that we've already announced as we get more information. 

 MARK GILLMAN (ph): I see. So, you're making these additions prior to seeing any production performance. 

 PATRICK T. MULVA: Depends upon the particular area. 

 MARK GILLMAN (ph): Ok. Thank you, Pat. 

 PATRICK T. MULVA: You bet, Mark. 

 OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Mark Flannery with CS First Boston. 

 MARK FLANNERY (ph), CREDIT SUISSE FIRST BOSTON: I would like to go back to the lifo gain. Did you say it was a total of $200 million or slightly higher than that? 

 PATRICK T. MULVA: It was a little bit lower than $200. It was like $185 million. 

 MARK FLANNERY (ph): Ok. And if we assume 60% in the U.S. Reporting -- not far off? 

 PATRICK T. MULVA: Yes, 60% to 75%. 

 MARK FLANNERY (ph): Ok. Was there anything else there in terms of one-time additions to income, particularly in the non-U.S. downstream. Which was I think quite a lot stronger than most people expect. 

 PATRICK T. MULVA: No, not really any specific one-time events that impacted the results. It really -- when we look at the non-U.S. downstream results, you see the impact of some improved refinery operations and lower operating expenses that really made -- I think a difference along with the fundamentals getting better. Made the difference in that much stronger performance. 

 MARK FLANNERY (ph): Forgive me if you've done this already but let's say, for example, fourth quarter to fourth quarter, the increase there. How much of that delta would be fundamentals and how much would be self-help? 

 PATRICK T. MULVA: I missed the question. You said from where to where? 

 MARK FLANNERY (ph): From Q4 2001 to Q4 2002, how much of the increase or the decrease sorry would be a fundamentals versus self-help. 

 PATRICK T. MULVA: Oh, sure. In round numbers, if we look at the fourth quarter, we were down about $200 million in the downstream. And $350 million of it are fundamentals negative. We were able to offset that margin impact by a favorable $150 million. I would call the $150 million the self-help. 

 MARK FLANNERY (ph): That's great. Thank you very much. 

 OPERATOR: Now from Morgan Stanley, we'll hear from Doug Harrison. 

 DOUG HARRISON (ph), MORGAN STANLEY: I had a question about economic growth et cetera. Can you give us an update on the demand trend that your Guy in the region are seeing in Asia Pacific or expect to see in the immediate term and while we're on the subject, could you also comment on utilization rates at the big facility in Singapore? 

 PATRICK T. MULVA: First let me talk a little bit about the demand. When we look at the demand in the fourth quarter and I had already commented about a little bit strengthening of demand in particular in Japan but when we look at the Asia pacific, we saw the demand increase about 2%. Quarter on quarter. Fourth quarter '01 versus fourth quarter '02 but we still are seeing relatively weak margins and relatively weak demand in that part of the world. 

 So, you know, there is some level of encouragement but still, we're coming from a long way back, if you will, from a base standpoint. If we looked at our utilization rates, in Asia pacific, overall, you know, we're in the kind of the 80% range or refinery utilization and fundamentally, with a why we're at that level is the sparing for economic reasons. 

 DOUG HARRISON (ph): Sure. 

 PATRICK T. MULVA: Secondly, in the presentation today, you talked about a reduction in operating cost of $300 million for 2002. But it included the effective lower energy cost and while maybe you guys should receive credit for lower energy costs, that's something you spend a lot of time trying to manage. 

 DOUG HARRISON (ph): Do you have that $300 million figure exclusive of benefits and if you do, could you give us functional and geographical segmentation as to where they came from? 

 PATRICK T. MULVA: A couple of comments. If you really look at the impact and just take energy out of the mix entirely. Energy price because you're right. We take no credit for the change in the prices. So, if we take that out and we look at efficiency so we will, in this comment and I'm about to make which I said earlier, we look at the full year efficiencies of a little over a billion dollars. We will include where we have reduced our energy consumption there but no price effect. 

 So, again, if we look at the overall efficiencies on the year for the corporation, it is a little over a billion dollars. And that's a little bit higher or better than we had been talking about by a bit. If you look across it, they are -- there are savings in all parts of our business. 

 DOUG HARRISON (ph): Ok. 

 PATRICK T. MULVA: Upstream, downstream and chemical as well as the corporate. So, very difficult. Now, what is the -- if you will, offsetting that effect so bottom line, we're up -- we're down $300 million. Obviously the impact on pension expenses and inflation offsets some of those efficiencies which really account for most of the delta. 

 DOUG HARRISON (ph): Sure. Thanks a lot. 

 PATRICK T. MULVA: You bet. 

 OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Steve Kirby ba with independence investment. 

 UNIDENTIFIED: Hey, Pat, how you doing? 

 PATRICK T. MULVA: Good, Steve. 

 UNIDENTIFIED: My question is on production capacity. I know you guys don't like to provide direct guidance on the levels but the question is almost every quarter now we hear of a good one, two, three percent growth in capacity yet production volumes are essentially flat with 97 levels. 

 So, five years is zero growth and output with decent capacity growth and imply pretty good capacity. So absent OPEC, problems in Venezuela, whatever issue we want to consider, what is the production potential of the company today and maybe a follow on to that is growing the -- capacity by 1% to 3% a year still the target or might there be focus to get that to show up in the numbers. 

 PATRICK T. MULVA: A couple of comments. First off, our outlook for capacity growth is really unchanged versus what we've talked about in the past which we said it is 3% annual average when you look out through the remainder of the decade. We don't see any reason to change that at this time. The volume affects itself is being impacted by the fact that as we've talked about in the past and you heard in my comments today, we're bringing on a fair amount of capacity additions in 2003, 2004, and 2005 particularly with our additions in west Africa. 

 In the Caspian and the rest and so when we look out, we don't see any difference. We see the capacity growing at about that 3% range. Of course, we always like to quickly add that we're going to do it as long as it's profitable. But so far, as we look out, we see the projects that we've got on the table as the profitable so we're not in any way changing that guidance, that we've included. If you look at any charge -- at any of the charts we've put out here over the last year or two in particular, you can see that we basically are on track, that we didn't expect to see that kind of capacity growth in the 2001-2002 period. 

 Our projects are more back end loaded as we commented in the past. If you look at our capacity and comment that we made earlier, we see capacity growth of about 1% in the year and of course, we've only been impacted by OPEC restrictions versus realizing that use of capacity so, we don't see a lot of spare capacity but of course, we would like to produce that capacity if we possibly could. 

 UNIDENTIFIED: So, the biggest area or maybe the only area you said is the OPEC countries right now. 

 PATRICK T. MULVA: Yeah. That's right. 

 UNIDENTIFIED: Ok. Very good. Thank you. 

 PATRICK T. MULVA: You bet. 

 OPERATOR: We'll now hear from fiddle gate from farm stocks company. 

 UNIDENTIFIED: Good morning. I have a question for you and that is on cost saving. You said that cost saving in the last few years amounted to about $7 billion. The impact of higher oil and gas prices added approximately $10 billion to your baseline earnings from say five years ago. But yet five years ago, had had the same earnings as you reported this year or 2002. Where did all of this saving and the increase -- the impact of oil and gas prices disappear? 

 PATRICK T. MULVA: We wouldn't say they disappear. We're seeing them in the bottom line results. I've commented in the past and I'll use the downstream by way of example. That we continue to see the operating expense efficiencies but for example in the downstream, we've had extremely weak margins which have eroded those savings to the bottom line. 

 But if we hadn't taken the steps we've taken, we wouldn't see the kind of results we were seeing so I mean we've done a very thorough and disciplined review and I can tell you that we can see our operating expenses and our revenue enhancement projects taking hold. And you know, becoming a part of our base operations from an efficiency standpoint. So, we see it impacting the bottom line but we're obviously impacted by the same pressures everybody else is from an inflation standpoint. 

 UNIDENTIFIED: If you think a second -- that 1997 earning was exactly the same as 2002 yet I assume that we're actually -- that downstream, you suffered about $2 billion from 1997 level and chemical about a billion dollar. 

 But on the upstream, you gain, if I look at that numbers, I would say more than $10 billion effective of higher oil and gas prices. In addition to that, you have $7 billion cost savings so even if you net all of these things out, you really have to have about $12 to $14 billion of incremental earnings under pretax basis. But yet the 2002 numbers were exactly the same as the 1997 numbers. Inflation did not do that much damage. 

 PATRICK T. MULVA: Inflation is one of the many factors that impacts on our operating expenses. Your analysis back to 1997 sounds interesting. Yet you know, there have been a number of changes not only -- not only in the world and in prices and the rest but of course, I think your 1997 comparison, I'm not sure what you're looking at because of course post 1999, we have a much different corporation here. 

 UNIDENTIFIED: No, the 1997 combined -- this is the five-year Exxon Mobil operating statistics. These are the numbers established by the company. This is not my numbers. I'm trying to get to how do we reconcile the $7 billion cost saving and the $10 billion increase in -- as a result of higher oil and gas prices. I mean, it seems to me that if we can hope to have that, earnings wouldn't be much higher but anyway. I just wish that in your March meeting, you will have some presentation to at least explain how you reck on isn't -- how you reconciled these two numbers. 

 PATRICK T. MULVA: Ok. We'll take that under advisement. 

 UNIDENTIFIED: Thank you. 

 OPERATOR: We'll now hear from Paul Sankyu with Deutsche Banc. 

 PAUL SANKYU (ph), DEUTSCHE BANC: I was wondering further your comments about U.S. gas production and the structural shift we're seeing in international gas, how much gas did you import into the U.S. Market in the form of. Will and. Go and the course of any. That's the question. -- in the form of L. And G.. 

 PATRICK T. MULVA: I think the establish zero but let us get back to you on that. 

 PAUL SANKYU (ph): A question on the accounting. You've taken the Hong Kong power earnings into the upstream. Will that distort the upstream earning what's the number we should adding in for Hong kong earnings on an ongoing basis into the upstream segment? 

 PATRICK T. MULVA: We don't think it will distort. We pretty much lined it out. You might want to take a look at that. By way of round numbers, power is about a $7 a million a quarter earnings impact. 

 PAUL SANKYU (ph): Ok, great. Thanks. 

 OPERATOR: We'll next hear from Paul from Lehman Brothers. 

 UNIDENTIFIED: On the phase-out of the MBE in California, have you seen any -- resulting impacts on your cap gas and production level or you pretty much that will be able to produce the same amount? 

 PATRICK T. MULVA: Well, you know, the phase-out or the use of ethanol versus MTB can have an impact on volume but I've -- but we've not experienced a supply disruption or disruptions with regard to meeting demands there on our volumes. 

 UNIDENTIFIED: Sure. Understand. But how about your own actual planned capacity for cap gasoline. You have experienced any or suffered any reduction as a result of that phase-out? 

 PATRICK T. MULVA: Nothing significant. It is -- as I said, it will have a slight negative impact on the overall production volumes but not significant. 

 UNIDENTIFIED: Ok. If I can continue on the downstream first. On the turnaround activities for 2003, I know you guys are never going to comment on anything specific. Can you give us a broad idea in 2003 if you look at it as a turnaround activity for you or is it going to be light or heavy? 

 PATRICK T. MULVA: You know, just with the absolute breadth of the operations, our turnaround activities are kind of constant over that period. I would tell you that the first quarter of 2003 will be a little bit heavier turnaround period versus the other quarters but then that's probably historic -- but then that's probably historic. As you come out of the winter season and getting ready for gas seasons, there is a turnaround activity level. Nothing significant as far as a comparison year on year. 

 UNIDENTIFIED: Great. Two last questions. One, if we look at the fourth quarter, your tax rate roughly about 35% which is lower than the last nine months, is the lower effective tax rate mainly in the upstream in international or that we also have seen the lower effective tax rate in other areas? 

 PATRICK T. MULVA: I would say you know, a part of it is the upstream but you know, it is kind of the overall blended rate. For our effective tax rates. 

 UNIDENTIFIED: Ok. Last one. Seems that you guys just have a resolution with the government -- with the Kazakhstan government. Regionally, the expansion was supposed to start up in the fourth quarter, '05. We have a couple of minutes delay. Are we still looking at the same time frame in terms of the stock? Also that if it is delayed in any way or with the resolution going to cause any change in the -- in the total cost in the development as well as maybe interest quarter or anything associated with that? 

 PATRICK T. MULVA: You know, we see a completion for the projects kind of in the mid 2006 time period but you know, not as significant --not a significant change but clearly, with this -- these events, the schedule on the project has had to move out a little bit because of the events that have occurred. We still see it as a very positive project for Exxon Mobil. We're very pleased to see that the project is back on track. 

 UNIDENTIFIED: Ok. Very good. Thank you. 

 PATRICK T. MULVA: Ok, Paul. 

 OPERATOR: We'll now hear from Cecil Goodman from Highland Capital Management. 

 CECIL GOODMAN (ph), HIGHLAND CAPITAL MANAGEMENT: Hello. My question just got asked. Thank you very much. 

 PATRICK T. MULVA: Ok. 

 OPERATOR: Michael Mayer with Prudential. 

 MICHAEL MAYER (ph), PRUDENTIAL SECURITIES: Good morning. 

 PATRICK T. MULVA: Hi, Michael. 

 MICHAEL MAYER (ph): I want to follow-up in the downstream results. Although there were some positive inventory impacts in the fourth quarter which you talked about, the underlying operating earnings exclusive of that looks like they're the best in four or five quarters and I note that refining margins in europe, Asia and the United States are all currently running about $1 to $2 above where they average in the fourth quarter. 

 Do you see signs in your worldwide operations of generalized improvement in the downstream environment? In terms of the things that are beyond your control operationally? 

 PATRICK T. MULVA: Tough to call because as you know, the fourth quarter refinery margins strengthened then with the impact on crude prices and the refining margins are jumping around quite a bit. So, I can't tell you that we see a fundamental change. Because again, the margins have just swung back and forth with the crude price changes. 

 MICHAEL MAYER (ph): Yeah, but it seems to me that oil prices in the last couple of weeks are higher than they were at any time last year. And the level of gio political uncertainty is equal to its heights of the last year and yet the margin on my screen for asia, Europe and the U.S. Is way better than it was four, six, ten, 12, 18 weeks ago. 

 Is there anything -- is there a significant recovery going? One of the other questioners mentioned your downscream in chemical earnings were $2 to $3 billion less than a couple of years ago. Are we beginning to see the early signs of a recovery? In the returns on those assets? 

 PATRICK T. MULVA: Well, we would sure like to see a recovery in the downstream margins. Let me comment on your point about relative strength of refining margins. You know, there's no doubt that we're impacted by those factors that we obviously don't control but I think we also have to acknowledge that we are seeing the impact of demand, weather demand that's impacting the fee -- refinery margins. 

 You look at the U.S. Inventory situation with the draft on gasoline and distillate. That's no doubt having some impact on overall refining margins. But as opposed to a fundamental shift, I would think I would more describe them as a seasonal shift. 

 MICHAEL MAYER (ph): Ok. How about the big decline in the U.S. Dollar. That has got to help on the translation of your nondollar earnings. Can you quantify that impact? 

 PATRICK T. MULVA: When we look at our overall earnings from a forex standpoint, quarter on quarter and the rest, we -- just because again of all of the countries that we're operating in, we don't see a big impact from forex. In the quarter on quarter comparisons. 

 MICHAEL MAYER (ph): The quarter -- fourth quarter versus fourth quarter? 

 PATRICK T. MULVA: I was really probably more talking about the third quarter versus the fourth quarter. If we look at the fourth quarter '01 versus the fourth quarter '02, clearly forex had some favorable effects but not as significant impact on the overall improved earnings. 

 MICHAEL MAYER (ph): Ok. Thank you, Pat. 

 PATRICK T. MULVA: You bet, Michael. 

 OPERATOR: We'll hear again from Mark Gillman from First Albany. 

 MARK GILLMAN (ph): I just wanted to clarify your corporate guidance going forward. As it relates to the fact that that was issued on the new accounting basis, not the old. 

 PATRICK T. MULVA: Yes. You mean with the segmentation change? 

 MARK GILLMAN (ph): That's correct. 

 PATRICK T. MULVA: Yes. 

 MARK GILLMAN (ph): It is the new basis. 

 PATRICK T. MULVA: Yes, it is. 

 MARK GILLMAN (ph): Implicit in that guidance, what assumption are you making regarding the dollar? 

 PATRICK T. MULVA: Really, none. You know -- 

 MARK GILLMAN (ph): You gotta be making something. Staying at present level, if that's the assumption, that's fine. I'm just curious as to what underlies it. 

 PATRICK T. MULVA: Really, we don't have any specific -- are you asking for our assumption on forex impact? 

 MARK GILLMAN (ph): That's implicit in your corporate guidance figure going forward. 

 PATRICK T. MULVA: Yeah. Well, we don't really see any significant swings in that guidance. It is about really about the same. 

 MARK GILLMAN (ph): So, in other words, it is on the assumption that dollar stays where it is. 

 PATRICK T. MULVA: You could probably say that because we don't see -- we don't typically see big swings in the corporate -- [INAUDIBLE ] on a line dot year over year basis. Of the guidance we're providing on the corporate financing segment is made up of the components in that segment of pension expense, the insurance, the interest expense and the rest. And so forex -- you know, is just not a major factor in the overall guidance, Mark. 

 MARK GILLMAN (ph): Ok. Thanks, Pat. 

 PATRICK T. MULVA: You bet. 

 OPERATOR: Our final question today comes from Jennifer Rowland with J.P. Morgan. 

 DAVE WHEELER (ph), J.P.MORGAN: Hi, Pat. It is Dave Wheeler. 

 PATRICK T. MULVA: Hi, Dave. 

 DAVE WHEELER (ph): How are you. If you figure out any future changes in the dollar, let us know ahead of time. That would be great. But the question for you -- I was interested in your comment that the spending on your base has been consistent at $4 billion a year. Have you seen significant increases in the decline rate in the base given that consistent spending? 

 PATRICK T. MULVA: Well, first off, you're absolutely right. We have continued to invest at a significant level in our base operations while continuing these large projects and what I would tell you is that all of those investments are in part to try to arrest the natural decline in any geography that we're operating in. I would tell you that the investments that we're making in the base -- are profitable and they're going toward, again, maximizing our returns in those particular areas. Not certain if I'm answering your question but I would tell you is kind of the constancy of purpose of how important the base business is to us while we grow the rest of the operations as well. 

 DAVE WHEELER (ph): I agree. It is probably your most profitable. I guess let's say we're seeing increases in the base. Certainly appears maybe to be the case in the U.S. Although I don't know if the base spending in the U.S. Was consistent. 

 The question I'm wondering is going forward, is there any need to either increase capex on the base from $4 billion to a higher number to maybe mitigate what we're accelerating decline rates or just to --maybe accelerate decline rates and keep the spending at a consistent level. 

 PATRICK T. MULVA: Obviously we don't want to accept accelerating decline rates. I'll tell you what we'll be driven by. We'll be driven by the economics we see on all of the investments and so our kind of roughly $4 billion investment, you know, we would alter that if we could see more profitable opportunities. We think that $4 billion --you know, that's not a target. That is really a result. Interestingly enough. When we looked at it. As I said, we could continue to fund at that level with some very good opportunities. So, we're not going to chase a decline rate and give up profitability. 

 DAVE WHEELER (ph): Ok. That makes sense. Thank you, Pat. 

 PATRICK T. MULVA: You bet. 

 OPERATOR: There are no further questions, sir. 

 PATRICK T. MULVA: Ok. I would like to thank everyone for their participation. I look forward to talking to you at the end of next quarter and seeing of some you at our analysts's meeting on March 4th. Thank you all very much. 

 OPERATOR: That does conclude today's conference. Thank you for participating. 

 [CCBN reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes. 

 In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized. 

 THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES CCBN ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. Copyright 2003, CCBN, Inc. All Rights Reserved.] 

 [Copyright: Content copyright 2003 CCBN, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Electronic format, layout and metadata, copyright 2003 FDCH e-Media, Inc. (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.) ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user's personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon CCBN's or FDCH e-Media's copyright or other proprietary rights or interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CCBN and FDCH e-Media so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CCBN and FDCH e-Media as the originators and copyright holders of such material. This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation.] 

   CO
exxn : Exxon Mobil Corporation
   IN
i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1300003 : Crude Petroleum Extraction
   AN
Document fndw000020030131dz1u000md
  


 HD
 Q3  2002  Exxon  Mobil Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final 
   WC
9,843 words
   PD
31 October 2002
   ET
06:00 PM GMT
   SN
FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
 (c) CCBN and FDCH e-Media. All Rights Reserved. 

   LP
 OPERATOR: Please stand by, we are about to begin. Good day and welcome to this Exxon Mobil Corporation third quarter 2002 earnings conference call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time, for opening remarks, I would like to turn the call over to the Vice President of investor relations, Mr. Patrick Mulva. Please go ahead, sir. 

 PATRICK MULVA, VP OF INVESTOR RELATIONS, EXXON MOBIL CORPORATION: Welcome, everyone to Exxon Mobil's teleconference and webcast on third quarter 2002 financial and operating results. My remarks today include projections, estimates, expectation, plans and other forward-looking statements on topics such as market conditions, future production, capital expenditures, expense efficiencies and project schedules. Actual results could differ materially due to factors I discuss and factors that we have noted in our SEC filings. 

   TD
 In particular, I refer you to factors affecting future results, included in item one of our latest form 10K and also posted on our website. These statements are based on management's information and belief at the time of this call and we assume no duty to revise, correct or update these statements as of any future time. 

 Exxon Mobil's third quarter normalized earnings were over $2.9 billion. And while down $380 million from the third quarter of 2001, our results for the quarter are up some $270 million or 10% from the second quarter. Upstream results succeeded both the third quarter of 2001 and the second quarter of 2002 earnings, primarily due to stronger crude oil prices. Higher volumes also contributed to year on year improvement. Downstream results weakened further as poor refining and marketing margins continued to impact income. Chemical earnings more than doubled from last year's third quarter, primarily due to higher volumes versus the second quarter, chemical earnings also improved. In the third quarter, we made excellent progress in advancing investments for major upstream projects and in delivering cost efficiencies in our basis businesses. I will briefly cover some of our developments. Exxon Mobil awarded contracts and began construction on a number of major projects during the quarter, including [Jakmba] in Angola and [Yoho] in Nigeria. We began construction of the [Arun] develop Nigeria earlier this month. 

 As we previously discussed, we are utilizing offshore systems and deep-water projects to improve economics. The first fully constructed FPSO left Singapore in late August to be used as an early production system for our Yoho develop in Nigeria. We expect early production to begin late this year, almost two years ahead of the full year field startup. Also in west Africa, we announced an additional deep water oil discovery on an [Agoalia], block 15. This is the 13th announced discovery and reflects the quality of this area. Exxon Mobil is a leading acreage holder in west Africa. This region will be a large part of our future volume growth and we achieved a significant number of key milestones in this past quarter. In the [Caspian], the company's participating in the mega-structure sanctioned expansion of production. This phase two expansion is expected to start up in 2006 and will add gross peak production of 420,000 barrels a day. This will more than double phase one peak production of 400,000 barrels a day gross. The first phase of the $12 billion [stockland island] project in Russia continues to progress with detailed design and engineering under way for the production facilities and the awarding of major contracts. Construction of the onshore drilling rig is progressing in preparation for drilling the first production well in 2003. Also this quarter, we announced the approval of funding for the thunder horse development located in the Gulf of Mexico. Gross peak production is targeted a 250,000 barrels a day of liquids and 200 million cubic feet a day of gas with initial production expected to commence in 2005. 

 In the downstream segment, we continue to profit from our investment in technology. During the quarter we finalized an alliance with Kellogg, Brown and Root for development and marketing proprietary fluent [catloot] cracking technology. We recently received approval from the state council of the people's republic of China of the joint feasibility study for the Fijian integrated petroleum petrochemical project. This approval will facilitate finalization of the joint venture project between [Sinopeck], [Aramco] and Exxon Mobil's affiliate in China. 

 Let me turn to the business line results for the quarter. Upstream earnings of $2.4 billion were up from the third quarter of 2001 due to a 10% increase average crude oil realizations, lower exploration expenses and higher gas volumes reflecting in part, the return of full operations at a room. Compared to the second quarter, earnings were up about $260 million. The improvement mainly resulted from higher crude oil prices. In addition, gas volumes were up slightly with increase production in the Middle East and Asia Pacific regions being partially offset by lower seasonal demand in Europe. Exxon Mobil's average crude realizations compared favorably with Brent and WTI due in large part to the strength in Alaska north slope, TAPAS and most heavy crude oil prices. Our overall production mixed impacted realizations favorably compared with both the second quarter of 2002 and the third quarter of 2001. 

 With respect to volumes, let me first summarize the overall quarter-to-quarter compare as soon as and then I will comment on volumes by region, where there have been some significant chances. Overall, production volumes were up 2% versus last year with higher gas production more than offsetting a 1% liquids decline. Liquids volumes continue to be limited by OPEC quota restrictions. Absent this effect, our total produce-able volumes for the quarter were up almost 3% on an oil equivalent basis. As compared to second quarter, overall production volumes were down about 1% due primarily to higher maintenance activity and the impact of a hurricane. 

 Now moving to the regional review. In the United States, pure and natural gas volumes were down versus both of the comparison quarters as tropical storm effects, higher maintenance and expected natural field declines were not completely offset by volumes from work programs and new projects. Additional volumes were realized from this year's project buildup at Borealis, Edison Marshall and [Mikka]. Canadian crude volumes were up versus the third quarter of last year, due to new volumes from the buildup at [Tara Nova] and increased volumes from [Hibernia]- partly offset by lower cold lake production. As compared to the second quarter Canadian crude volumes were up from early production from the cold lake expansion and absence of saint crude maintenance, partially offset by scheduled maintenance at [Hibernia] and [Tara Nova]. Canadian gas volumes were down versus last quarter's -- year's third quarter from base decline, mostly offset by our work program. Volumes were flat versus the second quarter in Canada. European crude volumes were down from both comparison quarters, reflecting field decline and scheduled maintenance that was only partly offset by additional volumes from work programs and the [Shearwater, scheme and Elgin], Franklin project. Several projects will add European crude volumes later this year, such as [Otter] in the UK and piper west in Norway. 

 European natural gas volumes were down from both comparison periods due to weak seasonal demand versus the second quarter and slightly reduce deed manned versus last year. In West Africa, increased production from the [jurysol] and fire project was partially offset by Nigerian quota restrictions as compared to third quarter of last year. Crude volumes the Asia Pacific volumes were up from both comparison periods with increased production from [Angsi] and [Laroot] in Malaysia and work programs in Australia and Malaysia, which offset the decline. Natural gas lines in Asia Pacific are up significantly compared to last year with [Arune] back to full production and ramp-up from the Malaysia projects just mentioned. Natural gas volumes increased from the second quarter due to production buildups in Malaysia and increased seasonal demand in Australia. Crude volumes are up almost 10% in the rest of the world from both comparison periods, due in part to higher production in Venezuela. Natural gas buys were also strong from additional gutter LNG cargos. 

 In summary, upstream operating results were in line with expectations given OPEC restrictions. Our capital project are progressing on plan with our upstream CAPEX for the third quarter at $2.7 billion. A 17% increase versus the same period last year. Year-to-date, we have invested about $7.5 billion in the upstream and are on track to invest approximately $10 billion this year. These investments will progress our significant portfolio of upstream opportunities. 

 In downstream, third quarter earnings of $125 million were down significantly compared to last year's very strong third quarter results. Weak industry refining margins reduced earnings by around $700 million. Weaker marketing margins outside the U.S. and adverse foreign exchange effects also contributed to the decrease in earnings. However, improved global refinery operations and stronger U.S. results off set a portion of these impacts. Despite the week downstream industry environment during 2002, Exxon Mobil has continued to take steps to improve revenue and reduce costs through focused initiatives. I will talk a bit more about that after I take you through the downstream results. 

 Total petroleum product result sales in the third quarter were down 2% compared to same period last year. Reduced refinery runs due to weak margins and lower demand for heating oil, [distillant], and aviation fuel were the major contributing factors. Compared to the second quarter, earnings were down $257 million. Weaker industry refining margins in the United States and Asia Pacific reduced earnings by nearly $100 million. Additionally, marketing margins were down in all regions. [Forex] effects negatively impacted earnings for the sequential comparison by $100. European refining margins did strengthen slightly providing a small offset to the widespread weakness in industry conditions. Our global lubes business turned into another solid performance, most notably in the United States. As a result, the firming demand and Exxon Mobil's continued leadership in synthetic lubricant sales. 

 In the United States, the downstream made $42 million. Depressed U.S. industry refining margins saw further deterioration during the quarter falling below second quarter levels and well below last year's third quarter margins. Compared to last year, weaker industry refining margins reduced earnings by more than $300 million. U.S. gulf coast margins contributed the majority of this decline. The effects of price finalization during the quarter also reduced earnings. Overall marketing margins in the U.S. were roughly flat versus both prior comparison periods. 

 Outside the United States, our downstream business earned $83 million versus the third quarter of 2001. Lower refining margins impacted earnings by almost $300 million. Industry conditions have remains very weak in Europe and in southeast Asia. While improved refinery operations provided a partial offset to the difficult industry environment, unfavorable foreign exchange and price finalizization affects reduced earnings by over $100 million. Motor fuels marketing margins in Europe, South America and Southeast Asia were weaker than the same period last year. Negatively impacting earnings by over $100 million. 

 Now, while we cannot predict or control industry refining and marketing margins, we can continue to strengthen the fundamentals of how we operate this business. Our continued focus on improving our cost structure and achieving revenue enhancements has provided significant offsets to the very tough environment during 2002. Many of the improvements are the result of Exxon Mobil's technology leadership. Others are the result of our relentless efforts to reduce costs and improve efficiency. Improved yields, better crude selection, more efficient turn arounds and marketing efficiencies are just some examples. These and other initiatives will continue to deliver earnings improvement to our downstream businesses. 

 Now turning to chemicals. Our chemicals business continues to benefit from our investment necessary new capacity, resulting in the highest quarterly earnings since the second quarter of 2000. Third quarter 2002 earnings of $353 million were more than double last year's third quarter. Volume growth generated more than half the improvement in earnings, reflecting improved demand and capacity utilization rates in key commodity businesses. Earnings were also up versus the second quarter, as margins continue to strengthen despite higher feed stock costs. Excluding a $170 million gain reported as a special item in 2001, year-to-date earnings were up $256 million or 50% versus the same period of 2001. Driven primarily by higher volumes for key commodities. 

 Looking next at our other operations the power segment continues to be a strong and steady earnings contributor with sales of power to Hong Kong and Mainland China. The other earns are from coal, minerals and insurance businesses. Coal earnings were down this quarter by about $25 million, due to the absence of our Colombian coal operations sold earlier this year. 

 Looking at the overall financials, Exxon Mobil's balance sheet remains extremely strong. Our cash balance is 6.9 billion dollars and our debt the 10.9 billion dollars at the end of the quarter. This results in a debt-to-capital ratio of 12.3% and a net debt-to-capital ratio of 4.9%. Cash of 1.1 billion dollars was returned to Exxon Mobil's shareholders through T-share purchases. Share repurchases of 30.3 million shares resulted in the retirement of 28.5 million shares. The effective tax rate is 43.2%, higher than the last quarter, in part due to the effect of the UK tax changes. The rate remains within our previous guidance of 40 to 45%. Our net merger expenses for the quarter were $85 million. This reflects further consolidation of redundant facilities, system efforts and staff reductions. As you know, the merger segment has contained both merger expenses and the gains from regulatory divestment. About $100 million of net merger related expenses will be included in the fourth quarter results. Concluding our use of the merger segment in future reports. Our net merger expenses will then be about $400 million. This compares very favorably with the $600 million net cost estimate discussed at the time of merger. This net cost has been more than offset by significant benefits. An estimated $7 billion of cumulative merger synergies by the end of this year. 

 The merger also presented the opportunity to reduce inventory levels and improve working capital. In both 2000 and 2001, we averaged about $200 million in earnings in the fourth quarter due to inventory reductions. While we continue to optimize inventory levels, the related earnings impacts in 2002 will be smaller than they were in the previous two years. Corporate and finance charges for the third quarter were down almost 50 million dollars from the third quarter last year. This is lower than our guidance of 100 to 150 million dollars, primarily because the favorable 4 X effect. As we have discussed, U.S. pension expenses are up versus 2001, due to lower asset returns and a lower discount rate. 

 In closing, let me quickly summarize the quarter. Upstream earnings were strong due to higher crude oil price and increased volumes. All of our major projects are on track and we are seeing the increased production from our upstream investments that we have discussed with you. The downstream fundamentals are still quite weak, especially in the Far East. The chemical segment appears to be in the early stages of a recovery, with strong volumes and strengthening margins. Our overall outlook for the company is very good, upstream results should continue to reflect our investments for profitable growth. These investments are expected to average about $10 billion per year this decade. In the downstream we continue to focus on the fundamentals we control and take steps to offset the very challenging industry environment. The commodity chemicals market appears to be improving. We are well positioned to supply the strong growth in petrochemical demand expected in emerging mark this decade. Our global -- markets this decade. Our global functioning organization continues to find safer and more profitable ways to operate our business lines. Year-to-date, we have achieved $700 billion of additional efficiencies and are on track to deliver $1 billion by year-end. Exxon Mobil's clear strategies, our financial strength and our technological capabilities are serving us well. I will be pleased to take any questions. 

 OPERATOR: Thank you. The question and answer session will be conducted electronically. If you would like to ask a question, you may do so so by pressing the star key followed by the digit 1 on your touchtone telephone. If you are on a speaker phone, please be sure your mute function is turned off so your signal will reach our equipment. Once again that is star 1 to ask a question. Our first question comes from Paul Ting with Salomon Smith Barney. 

 PAUL TING, ANALYST, SALOMON SMITH BARNEY: How are you doing? 

 PATRICK MULVA: Hi, Paul. 

 PAUL TING: A couple of questions on the upstream. I can't help, but see in the fact that exploration expense has gone down sharply both in the third quarter and year-over-year and nine months comparison to last year. Recognizing the fact that explosion expense does not necessarily mean activity level in the exploration level but still just need some clarification as to whether this represents a slow down of your exploration activity, shifting of cap ex into development away from exploration. Can you clarify that? 

 PATRICK MULVA: Sure, Paul, you are absolute absolutely right. The dollars are not indicative of activity. Activity level rose remain high the comparison level reflect the impact of the Brazilian dry hole that we experienced last year. 

 PAUL TING: Okay so the foreign -- all those kinds of factors did not really impact your overall general direction of exploration activity? 

 PATRICK MULVA: Absolutely not. -- Strong activity. 

 PAUL TING: Okay. Last question please. There has been some indication that the Netherlands maybe changing, proposed to changing the upstream taxation. Speculation that Norway may do the same. Can you give us some speculation as to what you might see? 

 PATRICK MULVA: Candidly, Paul, we have heard that speculation as well, I don't have any comments we don't have any more facts than you have. 

 PAUL TING: Thank you, pat. 

 PATRICK MULVA: Okay, Paul. 

 OPERATOR: Our next question from Tyler Dann with Banc of America Securities. 

 TYLER DANN, ANALYST, BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES: Hi, Pat, Hi, everyone, how are you? 

 PATRICK MULVA: Good, Tyler. 

 TYLER DANN: I think encouraging was the chemicals results. I wanted to just talk a little bit about what you're viewing as the environment thus far in the fourth quarter in your key areas? 

 PATRICK MULVA: Tyler in specifically chemicals? 

 TYLER DANN: Correct. 

 PATRICK MULVA: Well, of course, from an operation standpoint, strong operations and solid volumes, being able to effectively utilize the capacity additions that we brought on stream, so from a volume metrics standpoint, effective use of the new capacity. From an industry standpoint, we have seen some firming in the margins and key commodity businesses. Again, as I said in my comments, early days, if you will, of recovery, we are obviously optimistic about the fact that we see commodity margins strengthening and it is in a number of areas, [ollethylene], ethylene, in the United States and northwestern Europe. 

 TYLER DANN: Thank you on that then I have one other further question. We were in your offices, you mentioned, extensive discussions about the Japanese refining business. If you wouldn't mind commenting on how that has been developing since? I noticed that there was an outage at one of your refineries. Could you comment in addition to the general tone? What specifically is going on? I think it was 175,000 barrels a day taken out if I'm not mistaken. 

 PATRICK MULVA: Tyler that is right. That's a refinery that we have a 50% interest in and of course we are in the throes of the investigation of what exactly what happened. What I can tell you is that, first off and most importantly, it were no injuries sustained in that accident, which is absolutely the most important factor. The volume is coming back up. The atmospheric pipes should still be coming back up around 80,000 barrels a day later this week. So we will see that capacity come back on stream as we would expect. I will again emphasize the fact that no one was hurt is really the most important factor. 

 If I look more globally, if you will, at Japan, and as we discussed with many of you, we are taking some very instinctive steps to improve our results in Japan. This a very weak situation there, but I will comment on a couple of things we have done and we have really been doing this all over the year to improve our results. We have been looking at a number of feed stock options as we have progressed our thoughts and our work around making a virtual refinery in Japan and utilizing that flexibility that Exxon Mobil has. We have also taken a number of steps to integrate our business systems there, which we are seeing helping us reduce our back office, full, expenses. We have completed an organization consolidation in Japan, which will also help reduce our costs and taken some steps to reduce staff. So, those things that we control, we are working very effectively on to try to improve the results but I would have to come back and say that the industry margins in Japan remain very, very weak. So from that standpoint, we see little change over the last quarter or two. 

 TYLER DANN: Okay. Thanks very much. 

 PATRICK MULVA: Okay, Tyler. 

 OPERATOR: Next is Fred Leuffer with Bear Stearns . 

 FRED LEUFFER, ANALYST, BEAR STEARNS : Hi, Pat, how are you doing? 

 PATRICK MULVA: Fred. 

 FRED LEUFFER: Just two things. One, can you quantify for us the impact of the storm activity and the OPEC quotas on your production this quarter? And secondly, in the release, you mentioned, you mentioned in your re-remarks that pension expenses, jumped, do you have the numbers on what it was in the month and the nine-month period? 

 PATRICK MULVA: Let me try to take your questions in order. To talk about the hurricane effects -- if we look at from a production standpoint. In the quarter, all in all, less than 10,000 barrels a day oil equivalent, on a comparison basis, 50/50, half liquids, call it 5,000 barrels a day liquids and 30 million feet a day -- cubic feet a day of gas. 

 FRED LEUFFER: Okay. 

 PATRICK MULVA: And I think the next question you asked was about the OPEC restrictions? 

 PATRICK MULVA: Yes, sir. 

 PATRICK MULVA: And if you look at a comparative basis quarter on quarter, third quarter to third quarter, OPEC about was 30,000 barrels a day. 

 FRED LEUFFER: Mmm-hmm, okay. 

 PATRICK MULVA: And I think the last question you asked was on pension? 

 FRED LEUFFER: Yes. 

 PATRICK MULVA: And what we are seeing is in our corporate finance segment, impact of about $50 million a quarter. 

 FRED LEUFFER: Increase? 

 PATRICK MULVA: Right. Correct. 

 FRED LEUFFER: And -- okay. Yep, that will give me what I need. Thank you very much. 

 PATRICK MULVA: Okay, Fred. 

 OPERATOR: Our next question from Steve Pfeiffer-ph with Merrill Lynch. 

 STEVE PFEIFFER-PH, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: Hi -- On the crude price realization he affects you gave us the Delta international of 100 million. Believing that was (inaudible) could you just give us the absolute impact in U.S. and international and what that impact was for the third quarter? And then my second question is in looking through the international [EMP], even adjusting for lower exploration expense. It looks like unit costs sort of spiked up in 2Q or moved up in 2Q and came back down in 3Q could you give me any kind of color on what may be happening with unit costs specifically and internationally? Thanks. 

 PATRICK MULVA: Sure, Steve. Let me make sure you got the question right. First, a comment on our price effects, liquid price effects quarter on quarter? 

 STEVE PFEIFFER-PH: Yeah, when you look at the downstream, the crude realization effects in absolute terms for the third quarter in U.S. and international? 

 PATRICK MULVA: And upstream, right? 

 STEVE PFEIFFER-PH: Sorry, in the downstream. 

 PATRICK MULVA: Oh, I'm sorry -- 

 STEVE PFEIFFER-PH: On the water effect -- 

 PATRICK MULVA: Price finalizization? 

 STEVE PFEIFFER-PH: There you go. 

 PATRICK MULVA: Sorry. The price finalizization effect was about $50 million in the quarter on a comparative basis. 

 STEVE PFEIFFER-PH: That was all international? 

 PATRICK MULVA: No I -- it -- it was split, in fact the $50 million, if you look third quarter to third quarter it is about 50 million dollars U.S., I thought that was what your question was. We had a foreign impact of about $30 million. All that on a quarter on quarter comparative basis, it was around $80 million. That is a combination of the price finalization as well as the leg effects that we have on ANS crew. 

 STEVE PFEIFFER-PH: Okay. Got it, thanks. 

 PATRICK MULVA: Now, I think the other question you had were our unit operating expenses? And, what I would comment on is if we look at our operating expenses in the upstream as I talked about in the second quarter and third quarter. We are seeing our costs about flat on any comparative basis that you -- that you take, so, we -- we -- we are not seeing any significant increases at our operating expenses. 

 STEVE PFEIFFER-PH: That includes DDA as well? 

 PATRICK MULVA: Really, my comment is all in that is true as well for DDA. 

 STEVE PFEIFFER-PH: Thank you. Sure. 

 OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Matthew Warburton-ph with UBS Warburg. 

 MATTHEW WARBURTON-PH, ANALYST, UBS WARBURG: A couple questions if I may. The U.S. gas we watch quarter by quarter decline partially due to the Webster blow down, appears even if you adjust for the storm impact you said of 30 day your gases started to turn back up. You built some modest new field interest. Could you say what else is going on there that has stopped you the rest of the decline, or the rest of the decline? 

 PATRICK MULVA: Matthew, as we have talked about in the past. One of the things we do have an ongoing very conscientious full work program effort across our entire portfolio and that is true as well in the United States and so what we are seeing is the very favorable impact of our ongoing work programs on our gas lines. 

 MATTHEW WARBURTON-PH: Okay. And if I just ask one other question if I may. You site a billion and a half dollars in terms of operating cost reduction year-to-date and cite lower energy prices as well as additional efficiencies. Can you differentiate between the components, how much is energy and how much is the additional efficiency? 

 PATRICK MULVA: sure, when we look at our total operating expenses for the corporation across all, we are down about a billion and a half dollars and I will just give you a couple of factors. The energy prices is contributing about 1.4 billion of that 1.5 billion and efficiencies as I commented on is another $700 million. So the obvious question, well where is the offset to that cause there are some pieces and we are seeing the impact of inflation, you know, rough numbers, $300 million in pension expenses about $400 million, which is consistent with the comments that I have made earlier. So all in, the two big components that are helping reduce our operating expenses are efficiencies of 700 million, year-to-date and the energy. 

 MATTHEW WARBURTON-PH: One final one if I may. The combined, you mentioned FX comments, the combined FX effects sequentially year-over-year if you have that? 

 PATRICK MULVA: If you look at the foreign exchange effects for the company over the entire year. It's about and this for all segments it is about $100 million. 

 MATTHEW WARBURTON-PH: (inaudible) 

 PATRICK MULVA: Now if I do it sequentially or I should say if I do a comparison to third quarter '02 versus third quarter '01 the impact is slightly favorable quarter on quarter for the total company. 

 MATTHEW WARBURTON-PH: Right. Okay, thanks very much. 

 PATRICK MULVA: Sure. 

 OPERATOR: Mark Gilman-ph with First Albany. 

 MARK GILMAN-PH, ANALYST, FIRST ALBANY: Pat, how are you? Pat, if I recalculate the tax rate to take the UK item deferred out of it I great number 38%, which is below the range you talked about and for a quarter where the results are dominated by the overseas E and P that number sounds real low. Can you comment on what might be influencing that figure? 

 PATRICK MULVA: When we look at our effective tax rate -- one of the difficult issues with the tax rate, so many different tax regimes in different countries and upstream and downstream, such a blended rate. I can understand and we have looked at just that calculation that you commented on and we look at the net impact of our earnings upstream, downstream and the mix we get back to that number that we have talked about around our guidance. That is why we are comfortable in continuing to give the guidance of 40 to 45%. Mark there really isn't anything unusual in the -- in the tax effects for the quarter. It really is the blending of many, many tax rates. 

 MARK GILMAN-PH: Okay. Can you comment or quantify preferably the impact of spot [Gutter] Gas and [inaudible] sales on the Middle Eastern gas sales production and what the outlook might be for those ensuing quarters? 

 PATRICK MULVA: Well, we did see some impact in the quarter, I think it was roughly about 100 million cubic feet a day associated with Gutter Gas, which was impact the comparison periods. And of course you know that is a very strong part of our asset portfolio around our gas volumes and we see that as a continuing strong contributor. From a volume metrics standpoint, I think we will see a -- until we of course bring on those big [LNG] trains that were constructing. Well see those lines maintain the kind of levels we have seen the last year or over this year. 

 MARK GILMAN-PH: Okay, let me try justify could one more time with respect to an absolute number each for the U.S. and foreign downstream on the crude price finalization in response to the prior question. I think you threw in the Alaskan lag effect, unless I'm misunderstanding is probably an upstream effect not downstream. What I'm interested is in is the downstream specifically, price finalization, absolute number, one each, third quarter, U.S., downstream, foreign downstream? 

 PATRICK MULVA: Yeah the numbers that I gave you are all downstream related first, Mark. We tend to look at that an as all-in number. When I talked about the impact on the third quarter. What we saw from a world wide basis absolute number about was $40 million. I was talking Deltas the last time when I talked about it. 

 MARK GILMAN-PH: You split the 40? 

 PATRICK MULVA: We don't tend to split it up geographically when we look at the number. 

 MARK GILMAN-PH: And Alaska was a net benefit buried in that number, correct? 

 PATRICK MULVA: In the $40 million, Alaska leg effects would have contributed to that $40 million, maybe 25%, something like that. 

 MARK GILMAN-PH: I'm saying has a different sign, doesn't it? 

 PATRICK MULVA: No 

 MARK GILMAN-PH: Okay, we will take it off-line. Thanks, Pat. 

 PATRICK MULVA: Sure, Mark. 

 OPERATOR: Our next question from Paul Ching with Lehman Brothers. 

 PAUL CHING, ANALYST, LEHMAN BROTHERS: Good afternoon. 

 PATRICK MULVA: Paul. 

 PAUL CHING: Simple quick question, the OPEC quota he was talking about compared to last year is about 30,000 barrels a day higher. Any rough estimate how that will impact the fourth quarter? 

 PATRICK MULVA: Well, that is pretty tough for us to call. We, you know, as that would happen, we find out what which are allowed to produce and that is when we produce. I can't comment, because we don't know. 

 PAUL CHING: How about for the month of October? 

 PATRICK MULVA: Really, we don't have the final volumes. 

 PAUL CHING: Okay. How about in terms of the Gulf of Mexico storm impact in the fourth quarter in terms of both production and any repair charge for the fourth quarter estimate? 

 PATRICK MULVA: I apologize, you were cut out at the front end of your question. Could you repeat the question? 

 PAUL CHING: Sure, for the Gulf of Mexico, the storm impact, do you have an estimate for the current fourth quarter in terms of the production impacts and also any repair charge kind of provision? 

 PATRICK MULVA: Let me talk about the volumes. We would see the quarterly effect around 10 to 12,000 barrels a day oil equivalent split 50/50 between liquids and natural gas. From an operating expense standpoint, [diminimus], really, no -- there was no major damage of any kind to our facility in the gulf. 

 PAUL CHING: On the foreign exchange for the quarter, you know, absolute dollar term, can you break down what is the impact in the downstream and the [inaudible]. 

 PATRICK MULVA: You know, we tend to look at that in total for the corporation, I would tell that you when we do kind of the quarter on quarter comparison or the third quarter '01 to third quarter '02, the downstream impact was about $100 million, right on $100 million. 

 PAUL CHING: Okay. All right. Okay. Thank you. 

 PATRICK MULVA: Sure. 

 OPERATOR: Next we will go to David Wheeler-ph with J.P. Morgan. 

 DAVID WHEELER-PH, ANALYST, J.P. MORGAN: Question for you, with the -- you mentioned the balance sheet and the current debt to cap ex, the cash, given that low leverage, why aren't Doug doing more in share repurchases? It looks like the pace has slowed down in the couple quarters versus the prior period and had the dividend flap for five quarters now. How do you think about policy wise returning money to shareholders and what's your specifically your buy back and dividend poll? 

 PATRICK MULVA: First let me comment about our overall view on cash management then I will talk about the specifics around our buy back program and the dividend. You know, with when look at the management of a our cash and how to best utilize that cash for the shareholder, we think of it in terms of three opportunities. The opportunity to invest in the business, call it cap ex, the ability to return directly to the shareholders, dividend and the third, repurchase of shares, which is also our return to the shareholders some that. 

 That really is the way we look at it and of course it takes the senior management judgment how to strike that right balance to ensure that we are continuing to possibly grow the business and still allow ourselves to return cash to the shareholders on an ongoing basis. Really that summarizes our overall philosophy around cash management. If we look at our share buy back program, what I would say, if you look at it the past three-quarters, it has been fairly constant. Bounced around a billion to a billion one. The only difference in that number has been the share purchases made for anti-diluted effects. If you look, we basically have been the 1 to 1.1 billion for 2002. 

 We believe very strongly that it's a prudent -- a very prudent standpoint. Cash management and a share buy back program. That what we want to do is take a longer term view, consistent with how we run the entire business at Exxon Mobil and that is to more constancy of purpose and put a program in place and not move it up and down, turn it on and turn to it off. We don't think that is a very effective way and don't think that is effective for the shareholders. We see it as an ongoing program where as we look at that time continuously and adjust it as we think appropriate. That is how we have look share repurchase program. As I said for these three-quarters, very constant. 

 Now, from a dividend standpoint, again, we are extremely proud of our history of 19 consecutive years of raising the dividend and I don't think anyone wants to see that trend broken. So, we feel that again that mix of dividend and share repurchase has been very, very effective to return to the shareholders. From a cash position today, where we sit, I will only go back and talk to you about the incredible amount of opportunities that's we have in the upstream. In particular and you can see this in our cap ex profile as we have continued to increase our investments for profitable growth in the upstream. Consequently, where we sit with our cash today at a point in time it is really looking not only to the fourth quarter, but into 2003 for investment opportunities and we want to obviously prudently handle those investments with our cash position. 

 DAVID WHEELER-PH: I guess the only follow-up to that, Pat. Is it looks like your cap ex, certainly on the E&P is going to be fairly flat going forward. You have mentioned a desire to -- to raise the leverage of the balance sheet, thinking you are not quite optimal at such a low leverage. Obviously, the way you raise that is through share buy backs. What I was talking about on share buy backs is not necessarily jumping it around with the oil price or some such mechanism like that but actually raising the pace of buy backs, almost on a permanent basis until you get the leverage up towards that 20% target. Is that still a valid target that management was looking back a year ago? 

 PATRICK MULVA: I can't speak to the 20% target because I don't believe we have ever commented on a 20% target at all. What we really said is we want to prudently manage cash position. I would comment though that we continue to see our upstream cap ex move up on a quarterly basis and we see a lot of investment opportunity here in the near term. So, I wouldn't describe, at least in the next several quarters our cap ex is necessarily flat in the upstream. 

 DAVID WHEELER-PH: No, you said you were going to spend 10 billion in year and 10 billion on average going forward. 

 PATRICK MULVA: Right. Right. 

 DAVID WHEELER-PH: Okay, thanks, Pat. 

 PATRICK MULVA: Okay. 

 OPERATOR: We will go next to Mark Flannery-ph with Credit Swisse First Boston. 

 MARK FLANNERY-PH, ANALYST, CREDIT SWISSE FIRST BOSTON: Hi, Pat. 

 PATRICK MULVA: Mark? 

 MARK FLANNERY-PH: I have two questions. First, could you quantify the Delta in the production from [aRoone], both on a third quarter to third quarter and second quarter to third quarter basis, what was the change getting it back up to full output? 

 PATRICK MULVA: The rough numbers are around 500 to 550 million cubic feet a day on a comparative basis. 

 MARK FLANNERY-PH: And that is the year-over-year? 

 PATRICK MULVA: Correct. 

 MARK FLANNERY-PH: Great. And was there any significant move quarter to quarter there or -- 

 PATRICK MULVA: No. 

 MARK FLANNERY-PH: Second question is -- I don't know if this is Paul's question, because I lost the line for a minute, but you have mentioned a few times that you're undertaking extensive self-help efforts in the downstream, could you quantify those for us or give us an idea of how much you're aiming for in dollars, millions, tons? 

 PATRICK MULVA: Sure, well, let me comment in this regard. We have set a target of -- and commented on more than one occasion about the fact that we are -- we are shooting for a $1 billion of additional efficiency synergies is this year. And the first three-quarters at 700 million on that billion and looks quite achievable. And that is really for the company all in and that is really kind of the way we have looked at the numbers for the company. 

 MARK FLANNERY-PH: Okay. Just a final follow-up, which is a lot of speculation around the sustainability or the retain-ability of downstream synergies. Could you comment on whether you're comfortable with the guidance you have previously given with us regards to downstream merger synergies is still applicable? 

 PATRICK MULVA: I know that in our analyst meeting back in March, we commented about the fact that one of their numbers that I recall was that we talked for -- about in the refining and supply segment that we were trying to achieve about 800 billion before tax savings and that is all part of that billion dollars. I have talked B I will tell that you we are on track on all of our program in the downstream. We certainly measure it and look to ensure that we are keeping those synergies from an operating expense standpoint and I can report to you that we are seeing that impact. I think it also speaks to just how weak the fundamentals are in the downstream when we are realizing those kind of operating efficiencies and you still see the --efficiencies and you still see the very weak downstream results. 

 MARK FLANNERY-PH: Great, thank you very much, Pat. 

 PATRICK MULVA: Sure. 

 OPERATOR: Next we'll go to Fiddle Gate-ph with Farm Stocks. 

 FIDDLE GATE-PH, ANALYST, FARM STOCKS: Good afternoon. A couple of follow-up questions -- One on the operating expense one and a half billion dollar. Can you separate the energy impact and the cost savings that are likely to stay? 

 PATRICK MULVA: Well, a couple of comments, the operating expenses, one of the -- the two major components for the corporation are energy at one point four billion and efficiencies at 700 million. The fact that I am talking about it - we'll I will describe it as price effect, so has prices go up or down that will come or go. The $700 million of efficiencies we are going to keep. 

 FIDDLE GATE-PH: Okay. Could you break it out between upstream and downstream and --chemical? 

 PATRICK MULVA: We -- we have tended to look at this in total, so I would like to keep it at that level. 

 FIDDLE GATE-PH: Okay. And a follow up on chemicals. What kind of confidence do you have now that the chemical business is turning around? Or that is too early to say? 

 PATRICK MULVA: Well, I would tell you a couple of things, pretty tough to predict what is going to happen in the marketplace. What I am confident reporting to utilization -- effective utilization of our capacity and the volume growth that we have seen as we have brought that capacity on. So now I feel very confident about our ability to effectively manage and run those facilities. What the market does kind of anybody's guess. I made my comments, it looks, early days look favorable but I wouldn't want to begin to project. 

 FIDDLE GATE-PH: Thank you. 

 PATRICK MULVA: Sure. 

 OPERATOR: Next is Paul Sankyu-ph with Deutsche Bank. 

 PAUL SANKYU-PH, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Just perhaps stymied my question but I was going to ask you about the downstream environment and how we sue that improving so far this quarter. The extent to which you felt any improvement there might have been relate to the hurricanes and storms. Finally on a wider point, how you saw marketing margins and refining margins interrelating and whether both seem to be weak simultaneously is a sustainable effect or structural effect and how you saw that. 

 PATRICK MULVA: A couple of things, first off, you are absolutely -- I'm not going to begin to try to predict what is going on [inaudible]. Factly, what I can tell you, when you look at October there has been some strengthening of refining margins, again on whether or not there is sustainable is anybody's guess. The interesting comment that you made about the very weak refining margins and marketing margins and is that a [inaudible] change in the business, I wouldn't predict. We don't see it that way. We see it as a time period, weak fundamentals with a weak demand situation. For both the refining and marketing margins. 

 PAUL SANKYU-PH: Sure, thanks. 

 PATRICK MULVA: Next is George Gasspar-ph with Robert W Bared. 

 GEORGE GASSPAR-PH, ANALYST, ROBERT W. BAIRD: Good afternoon, a question on this OPEC-related volume, 30,000 can you relate to what you are looking at for the fourth quarter? One and two how do you absolute Nigerian situation with national oil company there backing off on some of their structured operations indicating that they are going to pull back and ramifications of that for international oil companies? 

 PATRICK MULVA: First, let me comment I think I had said earlier difficult to know what will happen with an OPEC quota standpoint, again, we are basically a told what amount of volume we can produce that could change and it really is obviously not our call. It would be inappropriate for me to comment on fourth quarter. I would reaffirm we saw this 30,000 barrel a day bash -- 31,000 barrel day impact on the quarter. 

 With regard to the my Nigerian situation, from an impact standpoint, our projects continue on track with the government and with the national oil company there and not seeing any real impact on our schedule and on our work there. 

 GEORGE GASSPAR-PH: Okay. All right. Thank you. 

 PATRICK MULVA: Sure. 

 OPERATOR: We will go next to Michael Merrill of Prudential Securities. 

 MICHAEL MERRILL, ANALYST, PRUDENTIAL SECURITIES: Good morning, thank you for taking my call. Can you update us on your production forecast for the fourth quarter, the full year of this year please? 

 PATRICK MULVA: We don't typically comment on what we see looking ahead on a volume metric basis and so obviously we are going to be impacted by all the same factors impacted our third quarter, OPEC quota, whatever that number might be. And from a gas standpoint, seasonal demand we'll have to wait and see. 

 MICHAEL MERRILL: So you are not will to say whether or not your production will be up down or in the north calendar year 2002? 

 PATRICK MULVA: No, I think what -- as I said, see how the fourth quarter comes out. 

 OPERATOR: Does that complete your question? 

 MICHAEL MERRILL: Well, it completed my question but I didn't really get an answer but thanks anyway. 

 PATRICK MULVA: Well, I said, we don't -- we don't provide any guidance on our volumes on a look-ahead quarter and that has been our policy and we will stick to that. 

 OPERATOR: Today's final question from William Ferria-ph with WH Reese and Company. 

 WILLIAM FERRIA-PH, ANALYST, WH REESE AND COMPANY: Good afternoon. It -- just a couple of questions. Seemed as though you almost had a sense of relief in your voice when you mentioned that the fourth quarter will likely be the last quarter of breaking out merger restructuring charges, et cetera. I know Exxon has had a program of ongoing restructuring that doesn't have a beginning date and ending date, but does the thrust of merger benefits and restructuring, et cetera, tend to diminish following this quarter or should we look for a new formal program? 

 PATRICK MULVA: My comments were around the reporting of the expenses associated with and the gains associated with the sale of assets that were required under the merger and really what we were trying to point out is that we were no longer going to utilize that segment. But what I would tell you is that there is no lack of resolve nor think the merger from Exxon and mobile have run out by any means. In fact, the business is now so integrated as a single unit that trying to split those dollars out have become a bit more difficult and probably not worth -- worth the effort and so consequently, we want to transition into whatever the impacts are as we continue to capture more efficiencies in this new functional mobile organization, that --as part of the results, the -- results. 

 WILLIAM FERRIA-PH: Perhaps as a second and separate question, there has been the demise of a number of participants in the worldwide power business, both perhaps by their own choice and by the choice of rating agencies. Exxon has had a long history in certain parts of the world of being a major participant in the power business. Without perhaps disclosing monitoration of gas reserve I shall suit power business itself, perhaps a separate stand alone business slated to receive additional attention by Exxon over the next several years? 

 PATRICK MULVA: First, we have a long history with China power and light and our involvement there from a power standpoint, but what I would tell you is that we are very active in the design, construction and implementation and use of co-generation facilities across our business in the upstream and the downstream. And so we see a very large benefit from utilizing our technology and our integrated businesses to construct and utilize co-generation facilities and seeing the impact in our operating expenses and the overall efficiency of our operation and going to continue to do that investment in co-generation facilities. 

 WILLIAM FERRIA-PH: Thank you. 

 PATRICK MULVA: You bet. 

 OPERATOR: Next we have a follow up from Paul Ching with Lehman Brothers. Hi, Pat. On the pension calls, when you say 50 million per quarter is that after tax or pretax number? 

 PATRICK MULVA: Those are all after tax numbers. 

 PAUL CHING: Those are after tax? 

 PATRICK MULVA: Right. 

 PAUL CHING: And at what rate assumption that your now using for the investment return, previously, think about 9% is that being changed lower now? 

 PATRICK MULVA: Our assumption is 9.5% and that has been -- is down versus what we used two or three years ago. In fact, we have changed our assumption over the last couple, three years, so, 9.5% where we are at today and 9.5% last year. I would also point out if you look at the overall performance our pension plan over an extended period of time, still at about 12%. 

 PAUL CHING: So, in order, that if seems likely that you are going to stick with that way of assumption in the foreseeable future? 

 PATRICK MULVA: We think the prudent thing to do is continue-to-continue to evaluate what the right number is and if we were to change that number we would obviously disclose it, but for right now, 9.5%. 

 PAUL CHING: Okay. Last question -- lastly on that, the pension plan right now is fully funded or under funded? 

 PATRICK MULVA: Our pension plans are fully funded wherever we need to be legally fully funded. 

 PAUL CHING: So that means your -- fully funded or not fully funded? You say that legally, not everywhere that you need to be fully funded right at this juncture, right? 

 PATRICK MULVA: That is exactly right. I mean there are certain areas of the world where either it is not allowed or not a prude accident thing to do to fund the plan but where we are required to fund we are fully funded. 

 PAUL CHING: Can you share with us that what is the short fall at this point? 

 PATRICK MULVA: Well, our plan in the measurement is at year end and the measurement at last year end was fully funded and I can assure you at the end of this year, where funding is required, will be fully funded. 

 PAUL CHING: Mm-hmm. Okay, thank you. 

 PATRICK MULVA: You bet. 

 OPERATOR: We have a final follow up question from Mark Gilman-ph with First Albany. 

 MARK GILMAN-PH: Can you give us a quick update on where things stand with the [Chilean] copper sale and what kind of proceeds you are going to realize out of that? 

 PATRICK MULVA: Well, we are still working to close that deal. We are optimistic about it and you will see the results when we get it closed, but we are very optimist that we will bring this to a close. 

 MARK GILMAN-PH: Is the 1.4 billion that has been thrown around a reasonable number for the proceeds? 

 PATRICK MULVA: Not in a position to comment on that. 

 MARK GILMAN-PH: Could I possibly ask you, with respect to the foreign exchange factors that you have identify and spoken about in the foreign downstream, could you just qualitatively comment as to the extent to which they are either operational or associated with balance sheet translation effects or both? 

 PATRICK MULVA: Sure, Mark, I would be glad to comment. You know, when we look at four X, we tend to look at it in -- just as you said two ways, we are looking at the four X effects on the accounts payable and receivable for the business, whether it is the downstream and upstream. Those four X effects you are going to see in our operating results. Then when we talk about the four X effects in our corporate and financial segment. We are talking about strictly about the financing of the business and that is where we see that split and so we try to make that so that we can -- we can reflect on the operating results from a country standpoint versus the financing. So, that's really the philosophy that we take in looking at it. And we have the vacation point where I made the comment here earlier that overall when we looked at our four ex-effect for 2002. For the company overall, a little bit over $100 million and as you would expect, most of that is in the downstream segment because of Argentina and Brazil that is a good example, Mark. 

 MARK GILMAN-PH: So if I can just summarize what you are saying. Within the segments, the effects are strictly operational and not having anything to do with balance sheet translation effects are entirely within the corporate segment? 

 PATRICK MULVA: No, the part in the corporate segment has to do with any of the financing. And we would be glad to talk to you about it. 

 MARK GILMAN-PH: All right. We will take it up off-line. Thanks. 

 UNKNOWN: Sure. 

 OPERATOR: Our last question from Tyler Dann with Banc of America Securities. 

 TYLER DANN: Hi. On the volumes and prices for NGLs and U.S. and non-U.S., are you able to please break those out? 

 PATRICK MULVA: We don't -- we don't have that detail right with us, Tyler. 

 TYLER DANN: Okay. 

 PATRICK MULVA: We don't typically break out the NGL numbers. 

 TYLER DANN: Okay. But just to clarify though, the volumes are crude and liquids and the pricing that you give in your additional disclosure is of crude? 

 PATRICK MULVA: correct. 

 TYLER DANN: Okay, just want to make clear is that the case still. Thank you. 

 PATRICK MULVA: Yep. 

 OPERATOR: Mr. Mulva, we have no further questions in the queue. I would like to turn the conference back over to you. 

 PATRICK MULVA: Like to thank everyone for your participation in our third quarter teleconference. I look forward to talking you to again at the end of the fourth quarter. Thank you. 

 OPERATOR: This does conclude today's conference call we thank you for your participation, you may disconnect your line at this time. 

 [CCBN reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes. 

 In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized. 

 THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES CCBN ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. Copyright 2002, CCBN, Inc. All Rights Reserved.] 

 [Copyright: Content copyright 2002 CCBN, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Electronic format, layout and metadata, copyright 2002 FDCH e-Media, Inc. (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.) ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user's personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon CCBN's or FDCH e-Media's copyright or other proprietary rights or interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CCBN and FDCH e-Media so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CCBN and FDCH e-Media as the originators and copyright holders of such material. This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation.] 

   CO
exxn : Exxon Mobil Corporation
   IN
i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1300003 : Crude Petroleum Extraction | i25 : Chemicals | i2512 : Basic Organic Chemicals | i25121 : Petrochemicals | i502 : Heavy Construction | i5020022 : Oil Production Platform Construction | icre : Construction/Real Estate
   NS
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | ntra : Transcript
   RE
asiaz : Asia | lamz : Latin America | meastz : Middle East | namz : North America | samz : South America | seasiaz : Southeast Asia | usa : United States
   AN
Document fndw000020021104dyav000gp
  


 HD
 Q2  2002  Exxon  Mobil Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final 
   WC
8,930 words
   PD
1 August 2002
   ET
05:00 PM GMT
   SN
FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
 (c) CCBN and FDCH e-Media. All Rights Reserved. 

   LP
 OPERATOR: Stand by for Exxon Mobil Corporation second quarter earnings conference call. Good day and welcome to the Exxon Mobil Corporation second quarter 2002 earnings conference call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time for opening remarks, I would like to turn the call over to the Vice President of Investor Relations Mr. Pat Mulva. 

 PAT MULVA, VICE PRESIDENT OF INVESTOR RELATIONS, EXXON MOBIL CORPORATION: 

   TD
 Welcome to Exxon Mobil's teleconference and webcast on our second quarter 2002 financial and operating results. My remarks today will include projections, estimates, expectations, plans and other forward-looking statements on topics such as market conditions, future production, capital expenditures, efficiency capture and project schedules. Actual results could differ materially due to factors I discuss and factors noted in our SEC filings. In particular I refer you to "Factors Affecting Future Results" included in item one of our 2001 form 10-K and also posted on our website. These statements are based on management's information in brief at the time of this call and we assume no duty to revise, correct or update these statements as of any future time. I'd like to thank you to for joining us on our second quarter teleconference to discuss Exxon Mobile's earnings performance for this past quarter. 

 As announced earlier today in our press release, second quarter net income was $2.64 billion that's an increase of $550 million over first quarter results. Upstream earnings were up $144 million versus the first quarter. Stronger crude and U.S. natural gas prices more than offset lower natural gas volumes due to seasonality and warmer than normal weather in Europe. Compared to the second quarter of 2001, upstream earnings were down $697 million due to lower commodity prices. Downstream earnings were up $410 million from the very weak first quarter results and down significantly when compared with the record second quarter 2001. Chemical earnings were double the first quarter 2002 results with prime product sales setting a quarterly record. Our overall results reflect the improvement in industry conditions from the very difficult environment experienced in the first quarter. However, the downstream in chemical fundamentals remain week. In the second quarter our CAPEX totalled $2.4 billion, an increase of 20% compared with the second quarter of 2001. And up 14% versus the first quarter of 2002. 

 Through the first half of this year our CAPEX totalled $6.4 billion. That's on pace with the projections we previously discussed with you. During the quarter we advanced a number of significant developments that support our long-term profitable growth plans. We announced the Issan One discovery in deepwater Nigeria. This significant discovery is in addition to the world class projects in Ehra and Bonga which along with our joint venture interests result in a strong Exxon Mobil presence in offshore Nigeria. We are continuing to use our innovative Early Production System, or EPS that will reduce the time between discovery and production by as much as 2-4 years. This technology will initially be used to bring west African resources to production. Three EPS systems are under construction with the first of these expected to leave Singapore in the late summer. It will be deployed for early production at [Yoho] in Nigeria later this year. We also reached agreement with Qatar Petroleum for the supply of LNG to the U.K. 

 This landmark agreement will include two LNG trains that are expected to be the largest in the world when built. These are even larger than our currently planned world scale trains. Shipments are scheduled to begin in the 2006-2007 time frame and will significantly boost reserves and volumes without any production decline during the 25-year term of the agreement. Progress continued during the second quarter on the Coal Lake McKeysis project. This project will develop 250 million barrels of oil through 700 wells and associated processing, steam generation and cogeneration facilities. This expansion is on schedule for start-up in late 2002 and production will be increased by about 45,000 barrels a day at peak. Our Canadian affiliate Imperial Oil, Ltd. also filed applications to further expand Cold Lake operations which are expected to start up in late 2006. In the Caspian region, the Northern Caspian PSA joint venture declared the commercialality of the world cost Kazakhstan discovery. Early estimates are that produceable resources are in the range of 7-9 billion barrels of oil gross with Exxon Mobile's share being 16.7%. 

 Now let me talk about the quarterly results by business segments. Looking sequential Exxon Mobile's upstream earnings were up from the first quarter of 2002 by $144 million primarily due to increased crude prices. Liquid volumes were down slightly from the first quarter due to seasonal factors and the impact of planned maintenance. Natural gas volumes were down significantly from the first quarter due to seasonal demand particularly in Europe. In the year on year comparison upstream earnings were down from the second quarter 2001 due to lower crude and natural gas prices. Our crude realizations compared favorable to Brent and WTI as prices for heavy crudes were up versus the second quarter of last year. Our U.S. natural gas realizations were in line to the changes of the Gulf Coast spot price. 

 Second quarter liquids production was down nearly 2% compared with the second quarter last year, primarily due to OPEC quarter restrictions. Excluding the impact of quota, volumes were up slightly as new production more than offset natural field decline. Projects and work programs were consistent with plans and volumes were added for [Jerisol] and Jade in west Africa. Terranova and Hibernia in Canada, [INAUDIBLE] and Maroot in the far east and Cerro Negro in Venezuela. Second quarter natural gas production was up 1% from a year ago. The resumption in production at Aroon in Indonesia more than offset the impact of a warmer than normal heating season in Europe. Weather-related demand in Europe reduced our total volumes by 5%. During the second quarter, capacity additions included production from Skeen and Elgin Franklin in the North Sea, and the [INAUDIBLE]Nile in the Gulf of Mexico. Partially offsetting natural field decline. Overall after adjusting for OPEC and weather impacts, produceable volumes for the second quarter were up almost 3% from a year ago. 

 In summary versus the same period last year, upstream operating results were in line with expectations given the fallen commodity prices, OPEC restrictions and warmer weather. Our capital projects are progressing on plan and capacity increases are consistent with our long-term volume projections. This quarter we announced awarding of contracts and the commencement of construction in Xikomba in Angola and [INAUDIBLE]expansion in equatorial [INAUDIBLE]. Upstream CAPEX for the second quarter was $2.5 billion. A 22% increase versus the same period last year. We are on track for a full year estimated upstream CAPEX of around $10 billion. In the downstream second quarter earnings of $382 million were down $885 million compared with last year's record second quarter. 

 Weak industry refining margins reduced earnings by around $1 billion with the largest impact in the U.S. Improved refinery operations and slightly better marketing margins offset a portion of this decline. Total petroleum product sales during the second quarter were down 5% compared to the same period last year. Warmer weather, lower global jet fuel demand and decreased supply sales were the key factors in this decrease. Compared to the first quarter, earnings were up $410 million. Refining and marketing margins in Europe and marketing margins in the U.S. were stronger. This more than offset the further weakening of industry refining conditions in southeast Asia and the United States. Our global lubricants and petroleum specialties business turned in another solid performance consistent with previous quarters. Strong Mobil One and other synthetic lubricant sales continued to enhance the global product mix. 

 Looking at the United States, the downstream made $234 million. Industry refining margins across much on the United States remained below first quarter levels and well below refining margins in the second quarter of 2001. Compared to last year, weaker industry refining margins reduced earnings by nearly $700 million. U.S. Gulf Coast margins contributed the majority of this decline. Higher U.S. refinery [INAUDIBLE] and improved refinery operations provided a partial offset to the weak refining industry environment. Industry marketing margins strengthened significantly versus the first quarter and were slightly improved versus the same period last year. 

 The foreign downstream earned $148 million down $275 million compared to the second quarter last year. Lower refining margins reduced earnings by almost $300 million as poor industry conditions persisted for most of the quarter in Europe and Southeast Asia. Improved refinery operations provided a partial offset to the difficult industry environment. Improved European motor fuels marketing margins and continued strength in our non-U.S.lubricants and petroleum specialties business contributed positively. Looking sequentially, foreign downstream earnings increased $190 million compared with the first quarter. Primarily on marginally higher refining margins everywhere but Southeast Asia. Strengthened European motor fuels margins and generally better non-U.S. diesel margins also contributed to the improvement in earnings. 

 Turning now to chemicals. Second quarter 2002 earnings of $269 million were up almost 90% versus last year's second quarter excluding special items. Record quarterly volumes coupled with stronger performance from specialty chemicals more than offset weaker commodity margins versus last year. Earnings were double the first quarter results. Key commodity margins strengthened despite increases in U.S. and European feed stock cost. Stronger volumes also contributed to improved earnings when compared with the first quarter. Improved demand for key commodities led to higher capacity utilization rates supported by the recent addition of Singapore. 

 Looking next at our other operations. The power segment continues to be a strong and steady earnings contributor with sales of power to Hong Kong and mainland China. The remainder of the other earnings is mostly from our Chilean copper business. Overall, our minerals earnings were down this quarter. Copper production was lower due to down time from severe winter storm conditions. This is partially offset by higher commodity prices. As you know on May 2nd, we entered into an agreement to sell our copper operations to Anglo American. At the time of the press release we anticipated that the sale would likely close within the second quarter. At this time we are still negotiating the terms and conditions of this agreement. 

 Looking at the overall financials, Exxon Mobil's balance sheet remains very healthy. Our cash balance is $5.7 billion and debt is $11.3 billion at the end of the quarter. This results in a debt to capital ratio of 12.7% and a net debt to capital ratio of 6.7% slightly higher than at year end. Cash of $1.1 billion was returned to Exxon Mobil shareholders through T share purchases of over 27 million shares. Through the first half of 2002, we have acquired 63 million shares at a cost of $2.6 billion. The effective tax rate is 40.7%, about the same as first quarter of 2002. Up slightly versus the second quarter last year and within our previous guidance of 40-45%. This rate does not include any effect from the change in U.K. North Sea taxation. We anticipate the third quarter will include additional tax impact from those changes. 

 Corporate and finance charges for the second quarter are up from the second quarter of 2001. This difference is primarily from the impact of the weakening of the U.S. dollar near the end of the quarter. We also saw higher pension expenses versus the second quarter of 2001 as anticipated. In the future, you should continue to assume corporate and finance expenses in the range of 100 to $150 million. Merger effects for the second quarter were $30 million. We expect that the third and fourth quarter will contain some additional merger expenses from the rationalization of assets that were identified at the time of the merger. Overall the second quarter results reflect solid business performance in all segments and improved industry conditions when compared with a very difficult first quarter environment. Our focus remains on investment discipline and operational excellence. We continue to see synergy benefits across all of our business lines and our increased capital spending program reflects the ramp up of upstream projects that underpin our long-term plans to deliver profitable new capacity. 

 I would like to make one final statement before I take questions. As you know, the SEC will require members of senior management to certify financial statements. Our financial results for the second quarter fairly reflect our straight forward business model and have been prepared with the same rigor and discipline that have been consistently applied to our financial statements and disclosures. The Company's comprehensive well-controlled financial reporting process positions us to file the required certifications and we will do so later today. Lee Raymond said this in the press release and I want to reemphasize that point again. I'll now take your questions. 

 OPERATOR: Thank you. Today's question and answer session is conducted electronically. If you have a question, you may ask it by pressing the star key followed by the digit one on the touch tone telephone. One again, that's star one to ask a question. Today's first question comes from Paul Tinge from Salomon Smith Barney. 

 PAUL TINGE, SALOMON SMITH BARNEY: Hi, how are you doing? 

 PAT MULVA: Hi, Paul. 

 PAUL TINGE: A couple of questions. First of all can you lead us through some of the breakdowns between the organic increase in production of about 3% that would imply about 155,000 barrels per day of increase. Can you break that down from OPEC effect versus other effects, if you don't mind? 

 PAT MULVA: Well, Paul, all the growth that we show in our volumes is organic. There's no impact of a purchase or an acquisition of any form. The OPEC quota in the restrictions in the second quarter exceeded our declines on the absolute production basis on oil. 

 PAUL TINGE: Right. I'm curious about the statement that you made backing off the impact of OPEC restriction. 

 PAT MULVA: Right. 

 PAUL TINGE: And natural gas demanded you would have seen 3% growth. That 3% would have implied about 150,000 barrels per day of growth relative to Q2 of last year. Can you give us some breakdown of 155,000 barrels per day of growth, would that be mostly OPEC effect or mostly gas effect or any kind of guidance on that? 

 PAT MULVA: Let me comment about a couple of things. First the liquid side of the equation, the favorable impact that we're talking about, ex the OPEC effect on the liquid side recognized that versus the second quarter of last year, we see the impact of [Jerisol] coming onstream and Jade and Africa, that's a piece of it. We also see the impact of Terranova and Hibernia, of course those aren't necessarily the new volumes, but the buildup on the programs in Canada and also project buildup from the new capacity that we brought onstream in Malaysia. So if you look at that, those are the three major contributors. And I think again, if you look at that, it speaks to the diversity of our portfolio where we are seeing the positive impact of our work programs and our projects coming onstream, Africa, Canada, Malaysia, literally across the world. 

 PAUL TINGE: Second and last question, on your discussion on corporate and financing, several effects part of that is your increase in the contribution to the pension plan, can you isolate that and tell us how much incremental increases are there in your pension plan contribution of the second quarter of this year versus last year? 

 PAT MULVA: Let me make a couple of comments. What I'd like to do is talk about, and I think we'll probably have some other questions so let me deal with it right here. Let me talk about corporate finance segment and I think it will speak to your question. When we look at the delta quarter on quarter it's $200 million. If you look at that, somewhere between 2/3 and 3/4 of that are associated with four ex effects and the balancing associated with pension expense. You made the point about contribution. The contribution issue, we have a fully funded pension plan in the United States and the dollars we are talking about here are the book impacts of pension expense versus contribution. 

 PAUL TINGE: What's the cash impact of the pension expense? 

 PAT MULVA: Well, at this time, we've not made any additional contributions to the pension fund in 2002. 

 PAUL TINGE: Okay. Thanks a lot, Pat. 

 PAT MULVA: Okay, Paul. 

 OPERATOR: We'll go next to Tyler Dan of Bank of America Securities. 

 TYLER DAN, BANK OF AMERICA SECURITIES: How is it going? 

 PAT MULVA: Good. 

 TYLER DAN: The operating expenses I'm try to get clarity on this because I'll give you an example. The pricing that you've reported came in line with my forecast, the production generally in line with my forecast, and yet the E & P came in substantially lower than I thought. I'm trying to get a breakdown from you, especially in light of your press release saying that first half operating expenses declined $1.4 billion versus the same period last year. Where's the reduction in operating expenses coming from and can you talk a little bit about the sequential movement in costs and upstream taxation? 

 PAT MULVA: Let me first talk about the operating expense question first. We did identify the fact that our operating expenses when you do a comparison of the first half versus last year, we are down about 1.4-$1.5 billion. No doubt a large percentage of that is the impact of energy costs both in the upstream and downstream but largely in the downstream where we have the energy intensity. Also embedded in that number, Tyler, is about, and these are before tax basis numbers, there's about a $400 million efficiency/synergy savings when we look at the first half of 2002 versus 2001 and that $400 million is basically spread across all the business segments as we continue to see this synergy impacts. If you look at specifically your question on the upstream, when we look at our operating expenses all in versus last year, they are about flat. We don't see a big difference and, of course, we do see a bit of the energy effect but not as much in the upstream so our operating expenses cash and total are about flat. 

 TYLER DAN: Okay. And just building off of the first question previously, the effects you eluded to, was that all lumped into corporate and financing? Or did you allocate it divisionally and if so, what's the allocation for E & P instance? 

 PAT MULVA: It's hard to allocate it. The lion's share of the four ex effect that we commented on in the press release, and I made the comment of it's in excess of $100 million is in the [INAUDIBLE] segment. But we also see some impacts in both the upstream and downstream businesses from purchases and sales of crude and products. I would characterize the 100 plus million dollars is the piece you see. A small amount in the upstream for an operating side of the equation. Fairly insignificant. 

 TYLER DAN: Thanks very much. 

 OPERATOR: Next to Steve Pfieffer with Merrill Lynch. 

 PAT MULVA: Hi, Steve. 

 STEVE PFEIFFER, MERRILL LYNCH: Hi, Pat. How are you? 

 PAT MULVA: All right. What can I do for you? 

 STEVE PFEIFFER: Two questions. Any thought on U.S. gas volumes which continue to decline here about 5% from 1Q any operational issues that effected volumes in reverse/ And then on the European gas price down 38 cents from the first quarter to the second and I know that flags crude oil and what not but given that oil prices have seemingly leveled out a little bit, what would be the expectation of European gas prices as we go into the third quarter and the rest of the year? Thanks. 

 PAT MULVA: Let me talk about U.S. gas volumes. No real operational issues, in fact, we've continued with our programs from a drilling standpoint and the rest, in operations, there were no operational issues. We are largely seeing the impact of field decline. I would comment while it's a fairly small number, we are still seeing a little bit of the impact of the Webster gas cap blowdown about 50 million cubic feet a day on a comparison basis. But the rest is normal field decline offset by our drilling. Now if you look at and I should add that we saw favorable impact volume-wise in the U.S gas business from our Mica investment. On the European gas price side, you're absolutely right. We see that lag effect on crude. So if you look at the crude prices, we should see the European gas price coming back in the third quarter. 

 STEVE PFEIFFER: And Webster was down 50 million, was that versus 1Q? 

 PAT MULVA: No, that's quarter on quarter, 2Q versus 2Q basis. 

 STEVE PFEIFFER: Any sense for what it might have been versus 1Q? 

 PAT MULVA: Nothing, zero. 

 STEVE PFEIFFER: Sort of flatish versus 1Q? Super, thank you. 

 OPERATOR: We'll go next to Arden Murray with Goldman Sachs. 

 ARDEN MURRAY, GOLDMAN SACHS: Just wondering if you had any impact mark to market accounting from FAS 133, perhaps European gas contracts were elsewhere and if there were any inventory effects in the refining numbers? 

 PAT MULVA: No and no. No impact from mark to market. Arden, I know you're familiar with us and we are not in that business and so we don't see the mark to market impacts because we're not in the derivatives and trading business in that regard. 

 ARDEN MURRAY: I'm certainly well aware you weren't, I wonder if your competitors did take some European gas contracts and I thought that might have impacted you even though they are not derivative-based? 

 PAT MULVA: We had a small amount. It's really what I describe as deminimus. On the, Arden, let me comment on the downstream side of the business. No inventory impacts in our earnings. LIFO effects if you will. 

 ARDEN MURRAY: Pretty clean number. Great. Thank you very much. 

 PAT MULVA: Very clean number. Next? We'll go next to Fred Lufer with Bear Stearns. 

 FRED LUFER, BEAR STEARNS: Hi, just two things. Is there anything on the natural feels decline to explain the sharp year on year and quarter to quarter declines in U.S. and other non-U.S. liquids production? I don't know if you had maintenance that affected that and can you give us your expectations are for the production in these two areas in the second half? 

 PAT MULVA: Let me make sure I've got your question was on liquids volumes in the U.S. quarter on quarter? 

 FRED LUFER: And year over year as well as the other, the category you have other non-U.S. 

 PAT MULVA: A couple of comments. First when we look at those volumes quarter on quarter in the U.S., really we are pretty much impacted by normal field decline. We also had the impact when you look quarter on quarter of a little bit impact of some turn around effects and maintenance activities in Alaska. We're also impacted by some weather conditions in Alaska, you know a little bit warmer than anticipated which impacts our volumes there. On the other side of the business, we also were impacted by some planned maintenance on our liquids volumes in particular in Malaysia. We had some maintenance work going on at our crude oil terminal there in Kurte. And other than that, that was probably the biggest issues. 

 FRED LUFER: Okay. I think you said in your comments that warm weather in Europe was responsible for a 5% decline in gas production but looks like on a year over year basis it was down 10%. Is this just the effect of natural decline, the difference between those two numbers or are there maintenance-related effects there? 

 PAT MULVA: Let me clarify the 5%. I was talking about was on our total gas volumes. All in, all geographic areas. The numbers you are calculating or commenting on are exactly right if you go on a specific geographic basis. The impact on gas volumes again, is not an issue of production volumes it's a function of demand. If the demand's there, we've got the gas. 

 MICHAEL YOUNG, GERARD CLOWER: So the 100% of the decline is weather-related? 

 MATTHEW WARBURTON, UBS WARBURG: That's right. 

 OPERATOR: We'll go next to David Wheeler with J.P. Morgan. 

 DAVID WHEELER, J P MORGAN: Hi, Pat. 

 PAT MULVA: Hi, Dave. 

 DAVID WHEELER: To clarify on the impact of the weather, are you saying on European volumes or gas volumes around the world. 

 PAT MULVA: The 5% was on total gas volumes all in. 

 DAVID WHEELER: All right. A couple of specific questions. Your Asian refining through put fell off a bit. Did you have downtime at any major facilities? 

 PAT MULVA: We had planned turn arounds in three of our refineries in Japan. 

 DAVID WHEELER: And back up next quarter to normal levels? 

 PAT MULVA: Right. We've come off the turn arounds and back to economic capacity. 

 DAVID WHEELER: You mentioned that sale of copper operations, what's the earnings contribution from those operations, rough figures historically? 

 PAT MULVA: We haven't, the earnings impact on a quarterly basis? 

 DAVID WHEELER: Right, because that's going to come out in the third quarter. 

 PAT MULVA: It's in the $10-20 million range. 

 DAVID WHEELER: Okay. And last question for you. Buybacks, the buyback program has been pretty consistently $1.5 billion a quarter, slowed down a bit, should we read anything into that? In terms of you wanting to spend more money, increase capital spending and therefore less allocation of capital to share repurchases or was that something to do in the second quarter? 

 PAT MULVA: I wouldn't read anything into it. It's just our normal balanced approach to looking at our T share program and our capital investment profile but no signal there of any real change. As you know that on our share buyback, we get on a ratable basis and stay there and I think that's what you can expect to see unless there's a major change which we don't expect. 

 DAVID WHEELER: Very good. Thank you, Pat. 

 OPERATOR: Next to Michael Young with Gerard Clower. 

 MICHAEL YOUNG: Good afternoon. The question is as follows. Could you clarify your comments on the handling of the U.K. tax rate change in the third quarter? It was mentioned both by you and in the press release. Do you think you'll break this out as a nonoperational item or are you expecting it will be included in operating results? And, two, if you could quantify the amount that investors should expect. 

 PAT MULVA: First off on the reporting side on the equation, we'll work that through and you'll see it in our third quarter announcements when we take the effect of U.K. surcharge. If you look at the impact on earnings, I think you can expect to see an excess of $200 million associated with deferred taxes. 

 MICHAEL YOUNG: And that's the one-time impact and then there's obviously the ongoing effect, correct? 

 PAT MULVA: That's right. And still working through that. 

 MICHAEL YOUNG: Right, right. Okay. And the second question more on a larger scale basis. Has there been any talk internally as to whether there may be some structural change that's going on in the U.S. refining and marketing market that has caused the huge margin compression or is the view of the Company that this is just more of a cyclical move? 

 PAT MULVA: The short answer is really the cyclical nature of the business. We've got the rapid rise in crude prices that have impacted the margins here in the last couple of months. The inventory situation as I said, the short answer is cyclical as opposed to structural. It's a tough business to make money. 

 MICHAEL YOUNG: Thank you, Pat. 

 PAT MULVA: Okay. 

 OPERATOR: Next to Matthew Warburton with UBS Warburg. 

 MATTHEW WARBURTON: Good afternoon, Pat. A couple of questions on the downstream and one on the upstream. On the downstream, although obviously as you mentioned three refineries in Japan, there is still a very wide variance between the operational rates internationally and those domestically. Given refining margins have improved sequentially in the U.S., it still seems a very different operating strategy. I wonder if you can comment on why you are sparing capacity internationally and why not domestically? Secondly you mentioned the Qatar project and potential shipping volumes to the U.K.. Last year if you look at your extensions and discoveries, the gaps are booking provided a substantial proportion of your extension and discoveries. Can we expect a similar large slug of gas to be booked when this project is finalized? 

 PAT MULVA: Let me take the downstream question on sparing of capacity. What we would do anywhere in the world is run our capacity on what's economic and what's making money for us. While I would tell you we are not very pleased with the downstream refining margins in the United States, the fact of the matter is it still makes money for us. And we are one of the most efficient refiners going and you can see that volume impact as we run our refineries to meet demand and see the kind of increased earnings in the downstream that we captured in the second quarter. Particularly versus the competition. The sparing of capacity in Europe and Asia reflects the very, very weak margins we are seeing there and the difference being the margins particularly in Asia and certain geographies are below water as opposed to the United States where they are weak but we are making money. So I think that's it. So not as much strategy if you will, just the economics of running a global refining circuit. With regard to gas and gas volumes, you're absolutely right. When the Qatar project progresses through the normal reviews and we reach the agreements and all the terms and conditions are set, there's no doubt you'll see an impact on our reserves. 

 MATTHEW WARBURTON: Can I ask one follow-up question on gas and Europe? You mentioned in the second quarter that all of the volume declined year over year was weather-related and you have the gas and the demand dependent. Obviously Norwegian gas volumes are increasing in their sales into continental Europe. Do you view that as any threat to your Netherlands's gas position in terms of a market share perspective, regardless of obviously the crude price effect on pricing in the third quarter and potentially the fourth? 

 PAT MULVA: No, not really. Don't see that effect at all. 

 MATTHEW WARBURTON: Okay. 

 OPERATOR: We'll go next to Mark Gilman with First Albany Corporation. 

 MARK GILMAN, FIRST ALBANY CORP.: A couple of things. I'm estimating the OPEC curtailment impact at about 85-90 thousand a day. Is that the number? 

 PAT MULVA: No, it's lower than that. It's more in the, kind of in the 60 range. 

 MARK GILMAN: Is it primarily Nigeria? 

 PAT MULVA: It's a combination of those countries, Nigeria, Abu Dhabi. 

 MARK GILMAN: There was a question previously about operating costs seeing similar kind of effect as was described earlier in the U.S. And my question relates to DD&A which might be up significantly in [INAUDIBLE] to the variances. Can you comment on U.S. upstream DD&A? 

 PAT MULVA: Sure, I'll comment. When we looked at our DD&A, we don't see any kind of significant increase on whatever comparison period you're doing. And probably the more logical one is to go back year over year to look at DD&A. It's up a little bit but nowhere near any degree of significance. 

 MARK GILMAN: Okay. And any inventory effect on the foreign chemical earnings, Pat? 

 PAT MULVA: None. 

 MARK GILMAN: None whatsoever? 

 PAT MULVA: None. 

 MARK GILMAN: The foreign exchange effects. is that all balance sheet translation or an attempt to capture operational effects as well? 

 PAT MULVA: We're trying to do both. 

 MARK GILMAN: Both? 

 PAT MULVA: Right. 

 MARK GILMAN: I'm speaking of the $100 million mentioned in the release. 

 PAT MULVA: Right. 

 MARK GILMAN: And that's both? 

 PAT MULVA: Right. Yeah. 

 MARK GILMAN: What about the beneficial effects of the weakening dollar on overseas margins? That in there, too? 

 PAT MULVA: Sorry, Mark. I missed your question. 

 MARK GILMAN: I'm asking whether the beneficial impact on a transitional basis of a weakening dollar is included as a counter to that foreign exchange hit as you describe it. If it includes operational items? 

 PAT MULVA: What we're trying to reflect is the bottom line impact of four ex on our earnings when we make the comment about the in excess of $100 million range all in. 

 MARK GILMAN: Just one other one, if I could. The language in the release concerning favorable resolution of overseas tax items is a little bit different in this quarter than it has been in prior quarters. Could you comment on what that difference in the language is all about? 

 PAT MULVA: Really nothing really in the difference in the language. What we are really just trying to point out to you and to anyone else looking at our financials and our results, is that in any given time period, our tax rate, our effect tax rate is impacted by favorable impacts in whatever operating period. When you look at our effective tax rate over say the last six or seven quarters, you know it's in the 40-41,42 range. It bounces around depending upon any given quarter. That's all we're trying to comment on there, Mark. 

 MARK GILMAN: It suggests that these are one-time effects, Pat. Is that the way it should be interpreted? 

 PAT MULVA: No, not really. No. 

 MARK GILMAN: Thanks a lot. 

 OPERATOR: Next is Fidel Gate with Fahnstock and Company 

 FIDEL GATE, FAHNSTOCK AND COMPANY: Yes, a follow-up on the cost saving, the $1.4 billion. Did I hear you saying that $400 million were cost-saving and a billion was a lower oil and gas prices? 

 PAT MULVA: I mean, there's a lot of pluses and minuses including the fact that we bring new operations on and we see some other impacts but what I really was trying to comment when you look at our total operating expenses all in, first half '01 versus first half '02, we are down like a billion four and there's $400 million of that associated with efficiencies. The energy savings were in excess of a billion dollars but then we also look at what the impact is of new operations. When we bring a [Jerisol] on or a Cerro Negro onstream. We are trying to do the reconciliation so we get a pretty clear picture of our efficiency so we can comment to you and we can see the capture of those efficiencies. 

 PAUL CHANG, LEHMAN BROTHERS: On chemicals, the jump in earnings between the second and first quarter this year despite much higher natural gas prices and oil prices. I understand that you have record volume sales but seems to me that margin must have expanded significantly over a very short period time. Right or wrong? 

 PAT MULVA: Well, the margin effect wasn't that significant for that. It really was the impact of volumes. When you look. 

 ALBERT ANTON, CARL H. FORZHEIMER: Would the volume more than double your earnings between first and second? The first quarter was 132, the second quarter was 269. 

 PAT MULVA: Right. 

 JACK EIDEN, MCDONALD INVESTMENTS: You did not double your total volume, did you? 

 PAT MULVA: No, no. No. I was commenting on the second quarter of '01 versus the second quarter of '02. I may have missed your question. 

 GEORGE GASBAR, ROBERT BAIRD: Sequentially. I'm talking about first quarter this year versus second quarter this year, earnings doubled. More than doubled. And that is despite higher oil and gas prices. 

 PAT MULVA: Right. And the major impact on our earnings versus the first quarter were commodity margins. In basically in all areas. The volume impact was there but you're right, the most significant impact on our earnings was the margins. 

 FIDEL GATE: From what you see right now industry indicators, do you see that continuing or subsided or any changes? 

 PAT MULVA: Well, certainly we're encouraged by the fact the margins are a lot stronger in the second than they were in the first quarter and they are holding. As we talked to you about before, it's kind of hard to see if they'll be sustained. 

 FIDEL GATE: Okay. Thank you. 

 OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Michael Meyer with Prudential Securities. 

 MICHAEL MEYER, PRUDENTIAL SECURITIES: My question relates to you capital investments in Nigeria to bring on new production and how that relates to OPEC quotas. You've cited over the last couple of quarters the fact that produceable capacity is growing according to plan but actual production is not. When I add up the projects in Nigeria, it looks like there's maybe 800,000 barrels a day new protection over the next four or five years, your share about 300,000. There's no reasonable prospect that Nigeria's quotas will grow at anything like that number. How do you reconcile those numbers or are you resigned over the near term to having larger and larger shut in capacity? 

 PAT MULVA: I don't know. I would say we are resigned to having shut in capacity but really, we don't know what OPEC's going to do or not going to do. Really, what we're looking at is the investment itself and to put the capacity in place. 

 MICHAEL MEYER: Right, but when you calculate the returns, I know you have a fantastic long run record in capital allocation and discipline. Are you assuming that you'll not generate full production from those projects in the early years because they'll be shut in? Or doing the economics assuming that they'll come on stream exactly as planned. Because if they do come on stream as planned, Nigeria will be in seriously in excess of its' quota and that could cause an oil price problem that hurts your returns. 

 PAT MULVA: I cannot debate what the OPEC quota and what it's going to be when these volumes come on in 2004 and 2005. I would step back and share with you our view of what's happening to the supply demand over the next several years. You probably recall back to the March 5th analyst conference, we looked at what's going to happen over the next several years with some modest economic growth in the world and looking at the requirements for both oil and gas in the world, we see a growth in liquids volumes requirements. Wherever there's going to come from, whether it's OPEC countries or the rest of the world, there's going to be a need for additional volumes in the world. 

 That's our view. You have to take a risked-based view on all the volumes that are being added around the world. Again looking out to 2004, 5, 6,7 time period, there's no doubt there will be an increased demand for liquids. When we look at our overall projects we risk them and look at it over the long-term but I wouldn't want to leave you with the impression we're going to add capacity to have it sit idle. It's our view that there's an increasing demand for liquids in this decade. 

 MICHAEL MEYER: Thank you. 

 OPERATOR: We'll go now to Paul Chang with Lehman Brothers. 

 PAT MULVA: Hello, Paul. 

 PAUL CHANG: Quick question, you indicate that the surtax the U.K., is that going to be a special item or go through your operating income? 

 PAT MULVA: Tune in to the third quarter, Paul. 

 PAUL CHANG: Yes. 

 PAT MULVA: No, seriously. What we want to do is look at how best to deal with that issue. I already commented just from a financial standpoint, deferred tax impact is in excess of $200 million. I think the operative issue for everybody is what's the impact to Exxon Mobil on their deferred taxes $200 plus million? 

 PAUL CHANG: Okay. Secondly on the foreign exchange, in the press release talking about year over year $100 million. Is that reflected in the second quarter of this year we have $100 million more or a combination of loss [INAUDIBLE]foreign exchange laws? 

 PAT MULVA: Really it's both. If you look at the impact. If you go back to our press release from a year ago. We commented on the fact that it was a favorable impact on foreign exchange and just slightly favorable in the quarter. The lion's share of that $100 million we're referring to is the weakening of the dollar in the second quarter of 2002. 

 PAUL CHANG: So majority is loss in the second quarter of this year? 

 PAT MULVA: Right. 

 PAUL CHANG: Do you have your gas capacity in Netherlands what is the current production level? 

 PAT MULVA: Don't have that detail. Where are you headed with that, Paul? 

 PAUL CHANG: Talking about production capacity, I believe you have excess capacity in the Netherlands and that may be partly to make up the 3% year over year gain that you are talking about on the overall production. 

 PAT MULVA: Obviously our production volumes would be higher if the demand was there. So I can't disagree with that. 

 PAUL CHANG: But you don't have what is that capacity? 

 PAT MULVA: No. 

 PAUL CHANG: Is there any benefit from the long haul crew for this quarter? 

 PAT MULVA: Very small impact. 

 PAUL CHANG: Very small? 

 PAT MULVA: Yeah. 

 PAUL CHANG: Okay. On the last item, one of the things [indiscernible] on the day before, the rates are down, raidience, how much is export from the refinery from Asia? That may help to strengthen the Asian market? 

 PAT MULVA: Paul, I apologize, there must be a problem with the connection, can you repeat the last part of your question? 

 PAUL CHANG: How much is the export to Asia from that refinery and with that refinery, [indiscernible] reducing the export. Is that going to help to strengthen the Asian refinery market, the balance is so huge it won't make any matter? 

 PAT MULVA: I don't have any specific volumes on the exports to Asia. I would imagine it's a relatively small number but candidly when you look at the margins in Japan, it's going to take more than a little bit of volume to have an impact on that margin. 

 PAUL CHANG: We wish otherwise, right? 

 PAT MULVA: That's true. 

 PAUL CHANG: Last question, on the pension plan in U.S.you are using 9.5% on your assumption for the long-term rate of return. Is there any plan of revisiting that assumption or are you comfortable on that? 

 PAT MULVA: Let me make a couple of comments on that 9.5%. First off, when we look at the performance over time, we had a performance with the assumption of 9.5% of about 12% over the last ten-year average time period. We always revisit our assumptions and take a look at them. But I'd also tell you the 9.5% assumption is about in the middle of where everybody is in the world. It's not aggressive or conservative, it's in the middle. Like the rest of the world, we are revisiting those assumptions. 

 PAUL CHANG: Thank you. 

 OPERATOR: Next to Albert Anton with Carl H. Forzheimer. 

 ALBERT ANTON: A couple of questions on [ARUN]. You mentioned in the release back to full operating but that's been a moving target. I wonder if you can give us a feel for where it is relative to the last couple of years and what you expect for the period ahead? Also were there any sizable expenses in restarting it or any expenses due to the political military situation in the area? 

 PAT MULVA: No excessive expenses associated with restart, no. I apologize, the front end of your question was? 

 ALBERT ANTON: The volume, you say back to full operations, but that's been -- it's been declining, the liquids were declining and then the gas, you know are you in a stable period for a while and where do you go from here? 

 PAT MULVA: We'll see the normal field decline, just like we would see in any place.. We are about 750 million cubic feet a day there and operations are stable. It is a mature field and we'll see the normal declines and we'll do the normal things we do and manage that reservoir as appropriate but stable operations. 

 ALBERT ANTON: Thank you very much. 

 OPERATOR: Next to Jack Eiden with McDonald Investments. 

 JACK EIDEN: Looking at the foreign earnings, making adjustment to price effect, volume effect, still, you know, income contribution should be higher the way I calculate it. My question is, was there a bonus last year, a lack of bonus this year from Nigeria or something like that, that could make the difference? 

 PAT MULVA: No, nothing unusual. If we look at a reconciliation if you're talking about the upstream side of the equation. If you look at the impact of gas prices and look at the impact of crude realizations, that is the lion's share of the difference between earnings between the two periods. There are some pluses and minuses associated with volume and operation expenses but none of them are significant. When you total it all up and look at the earnings, the realizations for crude and gas prices are well over a couple hundred million dollars which is the delta between the two periods. 

 JACK EIDEN: Thank you. 

 OPERATOR: Our next question comes from George Gasbar with Robert Baird. 

 GEORGE GASBAR: I had a question on exploration in Nigeria. Several years ago before the merger, Mobil had an exploration agreement offshore and nothing every materialized in terms of exploration. A lot of rhubarb took place before the demarkation lines were finally resolved recently, and I understand there's going to be a lease sale under way this month that is going to involve acreage in the new joint development zone between Nigeria and the Islands of [INAUDIBLE] I'm wondering if Mobil still has rights that never really were drilled even on an exploratory basis or do they have to come back and be a new player in the bidding process that's going to take place? 

 PAT MULVA: Can't answer that. Don't know. 

 GEORGE GASBAR: Okay, thank you. 

 OPERATOR: Today's final question comes from Paul Sankey from Deutsche Bank. 

 PAUL SANKEY, DEUTSCHE BANK: Hi, Pat. Just one on the LNG that you're going to be selling into the U.K. The uptick that I'm seeing is subject to the spot price in the U.K. now and will be essentially a risk for Exxon [indiscernible]. 

 PAT MULVA: The short answer is we will obviously compete in that market, whatever the gas price. Just remind you that the volumes are projected in the 2006 time period. 

 PAUL SANKEY: Effectively you'll be the off taker of your own LNG there and selling it into the U.K. gas market at your own risk. Also will you be shipping the gas yourselves? 

 PAT MULVA: Will we be shipping it ourselves? We are looking into the terms on how best to handle the transportation between Qatar and the U.K. 

 PAUL SANKEY: The second was just on the west-east pipeline. The return on that was stated as12%. Wondering how that stacks up with any comments you might have about the Saudi gas projects and if you could make a couple observations about the west-east entry and how things are going in Saudi Arabia? 

 PAT MULVA: Let me talk about the west-east pipeline issue. We entered into an agreement for the negotiations and there's a lot more left to go on those discussions. I can't comment on the 12%. Not our number. I think you know how we feel about low return projects. We're not interested in low return projects. We want them to be earnings. On the west-east pipeline project, basically we've reached an agreement to enter into a framework to discuss the project itself and the specific terms and conditions for the west-east pipeline have not been finalized. With regard to the Saudi deal, what I've said in the past, we've entered into an agreement with the Kingdom to not comment on how the negotiations are going so I'll leave it at that. 

 PAUL SANKEY: Fair enough. Thanks. 

 OPERATOR: I'm sorry. Today's final question will be a follow-up with Mark Gilman. 

 MARK GILMAN: When does the next [AROOD] LNG contract expire and what's the size of it? 

 PAT MULVA: We'll have to get back to you on that one, Mark. I don't have that detail. 

 MARK GILMAN: Thanks a lot. If you would, please. 

 PAT MULVA: Okay, Mark. Is that it? I'd like to thank everyone for participating in the teleconference and look forward to meeting with you again at the end of the next quarter, thank you. 

 OPERATOR: This does conclude Exxon Mobil conference call. We thank you for your participation and you may disconnect at this time. 

 [CCBN reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes. 

 In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized. 

 THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES CCBN ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. Copyright 2002, CCBN, Inc. All Rights Reserved.] 

 [Copyright: Content copyright 2002 CCBN, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Electronic format, layout and metadata, copyright 2002 FDCH e-Media, Inc. (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.) ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user's personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon CCBN's or FDCH e-Media's copyright or other proprietary rights or interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CCBN and FDCH e-Media so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CCBN and FDCH e-Media as the originators and copyright holders of such material. This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation.] 

   CO
exxn : Exxon Mobil Corporation
   IN
i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1300003 : Crude Petroleum Extraction
   NS
c18 : Ownership Changes | c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e21 : Government Finance | e211 : Government Taxation/Revenue | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | ntra : Transcript
   RE
asiaz : Asia | namz : North America | seasiaz : Southeast Asia | usa : United States
   AN
Document fndw000020021224dy81000y8
  


 HD
 Abstract of  Q2  2002  Exxon  Mobil Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final 
   WC
6,864 words
   PD
1 August 2002
   ET
05:00 PM GMT
   SN
Financial Disclosure Wire
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
 (c) Copyright eMediaMillWorks, Inc. (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.). All Rights Reserved. 

   LP
 CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS 

 . Patrick Mulva, VP Investor Relations 

   TD
 OVERVIEW 

 XOM: 2Q02 net income was $2.64b. Debt to cap ratio of 12.7%. Net debt to cap ratio of 6.7%. Effective tax rate, 40.7%. Cash balance is $5.7b and debt $11.3b at the end of the quarter. 2Q02 capex totaled $3.4b. Q&A Review: East-West pipeline, LNG UK deal, Taxes, Nigeria, Pension, Foreign Exchange, Production capacity, OPEC, and Stock buyback. 

 PRESENTATION SUMMARY 

 A. Operational Review   1. 2Q02 net income was $2.64b, an increase of $550m over 1Q02      results   2. Upstream earnings were up $144m versus 1Q02   3. Stronger crude and US natural gas prices more than offset lower      natural gas volumes due to seasonality and warmer than normal      weather in Europe   4. Compared to 2Q01,upstream earnings were down $697m due to      lower commodity prices   5. Downstream earnings were up $410m from weak 1Q02 results and      down significantly when compared with the record 2Q01   6. Chemical earnings were double 1Q02 results with prime product      sales setting a quarterly record   7. Overall results reflect the improvement in industry conditions      from the very difficult 1Q02   8. Downstream and chemical fundamentals remain weak   9. 2Q02 capex totaled $3.4b an increase of 20% compared with 2Q01      and up 14% versus 1Q02   10. In the 1H02, capex totaled $6.4b on pace with the projections previously discussed   11. During the quarter, advanced a number of significant develops      that support long term profitable growth plans   12. Announced the Usan (phonetic) 1 discovery in deep water Nigeria, this discovery is in addition to the projects at Era (phonetic) and Banga (phonetic) which along with joint venture interests, resulted in a strong ExxonMobil presence in offshore Nigeria   13. Continuing to use the innovative Early Production System or EPS      that will reduce the time between discovery and production by as      much as two to  four years   14. This technology will initially be used to bring West African      resources to production 15. Three EPS systems are under construction with the first of these expected to leave Singapore in the late summer   16. Will be deployed for early production at Yoho (phonetic),      Nigeria, later this year   17. Reached agreement with Gutter (phonetic) petroleum for the      supply of LNG to the UK   18. This agreement will include two LNG trains that are expected to      be the largest in the world, even larger than the currently      planned world scale trains   19. Shipments scheduled to begin in 2006/2007 timeframe and will significantly boost reserves and bibes (phonetic) without any production decline during the 25 year term of the agreement   20. Progress continued during 2Q02 on the Cold Lake Makesis      (phonetic) project which will develop 250m barrels of oil      through 700 wells and associated processing, steam generation      and co-generation facilities   21. This expansion is on schedule for startup in late 2002 and      production will be increased by about 45k barrels a day at peak   22. Canadian affiliate Imperial Oil Ltd. also filed applications to      further expand Cold Lake operations which are expected to start up in late 2006   23. In the Caspian region, the Northern Caspian-PSA joint venture      declared the commerciality of the world class Kashigan      (phonetic) discovery   24. Early estimates are that producible resources are in the range      of 7-9b barrels of oil gross, with ExxonMobil share being 16.7% 

 B. Quarterly Results by Business Segment   1. Sequentially, ExxonMobil upstream earnings were up from 1Q02 by      $144m primarily due to increased crude prices   2. Liquid volumes were down slightly from 1Q02 due to seasonal      factors and the impact of planned maintenance   3. Natural gas volumes were down significantly from 1Q02 due to seasonal demand particularly in Europe   4. YonY comparison, upstream earnings down from 2Q01 due to lower      crude and natural gas prices 5. Crude (phonetic) realizations compared favorably to Brent and WTI as prices for heavy crudes were up versus 2Q01   6. US natural gas realizations were basically in line with the      changes to the gulf coast spot price   7. 2Q02 liquids production was down nearly 2% YoverY primarily due      to OPEC quota restrictions   8. Excluding the impact of quota, volumes were up slightly as new      production more than offset natural field declines   9. Projects and work programs were consistent with plans and      volumes were added for Durasol (phonetic) and Jade (phonetic) in      West Africa, Terra Nova and Hibernia in Canada, Angtse      (phonetic) and Leroot (phonetic) in the far east and Sierra      Negro in Venezuela   10. 2Q02 natural gas production was up 1% from a year ago, the      resumption of production in Arun (phonetic) in Indonesia more      than offset the impact of a warmer than normal heating season in      Europe   11. Weather related demand in Europe reduced total volumes by 5%   12. During 2Q02, capacity additions included production from Skane      (phonetic) and Elgin Franklin (phonetic) in the North Sea and      Mika & Nile (phonetic) in the Gulf of Mexico, partially      offsetting natural field decline   13. Overall, after adjusting for OPEC and weather impacts      producible volumes for 2Q02 were up almost 3% from a year ago   14. In summary, versus 2Q01, Upstream operating results were in      line with expectations given the fall in commodity prices, OPEC      restrictions and warmer weather   15. Capital projects progressing on plan and capacity increases are      consistent with long term volume projections   16. This quarter, announced the awarding of contracts and the      commencement of construction at Chagomba (phonetic) in Angola and Zafaro (phonetic) expansion in equatorial Guinea (phonetic)   17. Upstream capex for 2Q02 was $2.5b, a 22% increase versus the      2Q01 18. On track for full year estimated upstream capex of around $10b   19. In the downstream, 2Q02 earnings of $382m were down $885m      compared with last year's record 2Q   20. Weak industry refining margins reduced earnings by about $1b      with the largest impact in the US   21. Improved refinery operations and slightly better marketing      margins offset a portion of this decline   22. Total petroleum product sales during 2Q02 were down 5% compared      to the same period last year 23. Warmer weather, lower global jet fuel demand, and decreased supply sales were the key factors of the decrease   24. Compared to 1Q02, earnings were up $410m   25. Refining and marketing margins in Europe and US were stronger   26. Offset the further weakening of industry refining conditions in      southeast Asia and the US   27. Global lubricants and petroleum specialties business turned in solid performance consistent with previous quarters   28. Strong Mobil 1 and other synthetic lubricant sales continued to      enhance the global product mix   29. Downstream in the US made $234m   30. Industry refining margins across much of the US remained below      1Q02 levels and well below refining margins of 2Q01   31. Compared to last year, weaker industry refining margins reduced      earnings by nearly $700m 32. US gulf coast margins contributed the majority of this decline   33. Higher US refinery throughputs and improved refinery operations provided a partial offset to the weak refining industry environment   34. Industry marketing margins strengthened significantly versus      1Q02 and were slightly improved versus the 2Q01   35. Foreign downstream, earned $148m, down $275m compared to 2Q01   36. Lower refining margins reduced earnings by almost $300m as poor industry conditions persistent for most of the quarter in Europe and southeast Asia   37. Improved refinery operations provided a partial offset to the      difficult industry environment   38. Improved European motor fuels marketing margins and continued      strength in non-US lubricants and petroleum specialties business      contributed positively   39. Looking sequentially, foreign downstream earnings increased      $190m compared with 1Q01 primarily on marginally higher refining      margins everywhere but southeast Asia   40. Strengthened European motor fuels margins and generally better      non-US diesel (phonetic) margins also contributed to the      improvement in earnings 

 C. Other Businesses   1. 2Q02 chemical earnings of $269m were up almost 90% versus 2Q01,      excluding special items   2. Record quarterly volumes coupled with stronger performance from      specialty chemicals more than offset weaker commodity margins      versus last year   3. Earnings were double the 1Q02 results   4. Key commodity margins strengthened despite increases in US and      European feed stock (phonetic) costs   5. Stronger volumes also contributed to improved earnings when      compared with 1Q02   6. Improved demand for key commodities led to higher capacity      utilization rates supported by the recent addition in Singapore   7. Power segment continues to be a strong and steady earnings      contributor with sales of power to Hong Kong and mainland China   8. Remainder of other earnings is mostly from the Chilean copper      business   9. Overall, minerals earnings were down this quarter   10. Copper production was lower due to down time from severe winter      storm conditions   11. Partially offset by higher commodity prices   12. On 5/2/02, entered into an agreement to sell the copper      operations to Anglo-American   13. Anticipated the sale likely close within 2Q02   14. Still negotiating the terms and conditions of the agreement 

 D. Financials   1. Cash balance is $5.7b and debt $11.3b at the end of the quarter   2. Debt to cap ratio of 12.7% and a net debt to cap ratio of 6.7%      slightly higher than at year end   3. Cash of $1.1b was returned to ExxonMobil shareholders through      T-share purchases of over 27m shares   4. Through the 1H02, acquired 63m shares at a cost of $2.6b   5. Effective tax rate, 40.7% about the same as 1Q02 and up slightly      versus 2Q01 and within previous guidance of 40-45%   6. The rate does not include any effect from the change in UK North Sea taxation   7. Anticipate additional 3Q02 tax impact from those changes   8. Corporate and finance charges for 2Q02 up from 2Q01   9. Difference primarily from the impact of the weakening of the US dollar near the end of the quarter   10. Saw higher pension expenses versus 2Q01 as anticipated   11. In future, should continue to assume Corporate and Finance      expenses in the range of $100-150m   12. Merger effects for 2Q02 were $30m   13. Expect 3Q02 and 4Q02 will contain some additional merger      expenses from the rationalization of assets that were identified      at the time of the merger   14. Overall 2Q02 results reflect solid business performance in all      segments and improved industry conditions when compared with a      very difficult 1Q environment   15. Focused on investment discipline and operational excellence   16. Continue to see synergy benefits across all business lines and      increased capital spending program reflects the ramp up of      upstream projects that underpin long-term plans to deliver profitable new capacity   17. SEC will require members of senior management to certify      financial statements   18. Financial results for 2Q02 fairly reflect a straightforward      business model and have been prepared with the same rigor and      discipline that have been consistently applied to financial      statements and disclosures   19. The company's comprehensive, well controlled financial      reporting process position's the company to file the required      certifications and will be doing so later today 

 QUESTION AND ANSWER SUMMARY 

 Q1. (Paul Ting, SSB)  Can you lead us through some of the breakdowns between the organic  increase in production of about 3% that would imply about 155k  barrels per day increase. Can you break that down for us of OPEC  effect versus some other effect? 

 A.  All the growth that we show in our volumes is organic. There's no impact of a purchase or acquisition of any form. The OPEC quota and restrictions in the 2Q exceed our declines on the absolute  production basis on oil. 

 Q2. (Paul Ting, SSB)  I'm curious about the statement that you made that backing off the  impact of OPEC restrictions, and that's organic demand, you would  have seen 3% growth. That 3% would have implied about 150k barrels  per day of growth relative to 2Q01. Can you give us some breakdown?  Would that be mostly OPEC effective or mostly Europe gas effect? Can  you give us any guidance on that? 

 A.  On the liquid side of the equation, the favorable impact that we're  talking about ex (phonetic) the OPEC affect on the liquid side recognize that versus 2Q01, we see the impact of Durasol (phonetic) coming on stream and Jade in Africa, that's a piece of it. We also  see the impact of Hibernia and Terra Nova, of course, those aren't necessarily new volumes, but the buildup on the programs there in Canada. And then also some project buildup the new capacity that we brought on stream in Malaysia. So if you look at that, those are the three major contributors and if you look at that, it speaks to the diversity of our portfolio where we're seeing the positive impact of our work programs and our projects coming on stream -- Africa,  Canada, Malaysia -- literally across the world 

 Q3. (Paul Ting, SSB)  In your discussion on corporate and financing, you indicated that  several effects, part of that is your increase in contribution to  the pension plan. Can you isolate that and tell us the incremental  increases in your pension plan contribution for 2Q YoverY. 

 A.  When we look at the delta QonQ, it's about $200m. Somewhere between  two-thirds and three-quarters of that are associated with for-ex  effects and the balance is associated with pension expense. We've  got a fully funded pension plan here in the US and the dollars we're  talking about here are really the book impacts of pension expense  versus contribution. 

 Q4. (Paul Ting, SSB)  What's the cash impact of the pension expense? 

 A.  At this time, we've not made any additional contributions to the pension fund in 2002. 

 Q5. (Tyler Dan, Bank of America Securities)  I wanted to get a little clarity on operating expenses. The pricing  that you've reported came in line with my forecast, the production  generally in line with my forecast and yet the E&P came in  substantially lower than what I would have thought. I'm trying to  get a breakdown from you especially in light of your press release  saying that 1H02 operating expenses declined $1.4b versus the 1H01.  Where's the reduction in operating expenses coming from and can you  talk a little about the sequential movement in costs and upstream  taxation? 

 A.  We did identify the fact that our operating expenses, when you do a  comparison for 1H02 versus 1H01, we're down just about $1.4b-$1.5b and no doubt a large percentage of that is impact of energy costs, both in the upstream and the downstream but largely in the  downstream where we have the energy intensity. Also embedded in that  number is about, and these are before tax basis number, a $400m efficiency/synergy savings when we look at the first half of 2002 versus 2001 and that $400m is spread across all the business  segments as we continue to see the synergy impacts. If you look at  your question on the upstream. When we look at our operating  expenses all in versus last year, they're about flat. We don't see a  big difference and of course we do see a little of the energy effect  but not as much in the upstream. So our operating expenses, cash and  total, are about flat. 

 Q6. (Tyler Dan, Bank of America Securities)  The FX you alluded to, was that all lumped into Corporate and  Financing? Or did you allocate it divisionally? And if so, what the  allocation for A&P, for instance? 

 A.  The lion share of the For-ex effect in excess of $100m is in the Corp. and Fin. segment. We also see some impacts in both the  upstream and downstream businesses from the purchases and sales of  crude and products. I would characterize the $100m plus as largely  the piece you see in corp. and fin. And a small amount in the  upstream, from the operating side of the equation. Fairly  insignificant. 

 Q7. (Steve Pfifer, Merrill Lynch)  Any thought on US gas volumes which continue to decline from 1Q?  Any operational issues that affected volumes that will reverse? On  the European Gas price, down $0.38 from 1Q to 2Q, I know that lags  crude oil but given that oil prices have leveled out a little bit,  what would be the expectation for European gas prices as we go into  3Q versus the year? 

 A.  In terms of US gas volumes, no real operational issues. In fact, we've continued with our programs from a drilling standpoint and  there were no operational issues. We are largely seeing the impact  of field decline. While it's a fairly small number, we are still  seeing a little of the impact of the Webster gas cap slowdown  (phonetic), about 50m cubic feet a day on a comparison basis but the  rest of it is normal field decline which is being offset by our  drilling. We did see some favorable impact, volume wise, in the US  gas business from our Mika (phonetic) investment. On the European  gas side, we see that lag effect on crude and so if you look at the  crude prices, we should see the European gas price coming back in  3Q02. 

 Q8. (Steve Pfifer, Merrill Lynch)  Webster was down 50m, was that versus 1Q? 

 A.  No that's on a 2Q02 versus 2Q01 basis. 

 Q9. (Steve Pfifer, Merrill Lynch)  Any sense what it might have been versus 1Q? 

 A.  Nothing. Zero. Flat. 

 Q10. (Argin (phonetic) Murray (phonetic), Goldman Sachs)  Do you have any impact mark to market accounting from FASB-133  perhaps European gas contracts or elsewhere and if there are any  inventory effects in the refining numbers? 

 A.  No and No. No impacts from mark to market. We're not in that business and so we don't see the mark to market impacts because  we're not in the derivative and trading business in that regard. 

 Q11. (Argin (phonetic) Murray (phonetic), Goldman Sachs)  I guess one of your competitors did take some for some European gas  contracts and I thought that might have impacted you even though  they're not derivative based? 

 A.  We had a small amount, what I describe as diminments (phonetic). On  the downstream side of the business, no inventory impacts in earnings, li-po (phonetic) effects if you will. Very clean number. 

 Q12. (Fred Luffer (phonetic), Bear Stearns)  Is there anything on the natural fields decline to explain the sharp  year on year and quarter to quarter declines in US and other non-US  liquids production? I don't know if you had maintenance that effect  that and can you give us expectations for production in these two  areas in 2H02? 

 A.  When we look at those volumes QonQ in the US, we're pretty much we're impacted by normal field decline. We're also had the impact  QonQ of some turnaround effects in maintenance activities in Alaska  and also some weather conditions in Alaska. It was a little bit  warmer than anticipated which impacts volumes there. On the other  side of the business we were also impacted by some planned  maintenance on our liquids volumes in particular, in Malaysia we has  some maintenance work going on at our crude oil terminal there in  Kirtai (phonetic). Other than that, that was probably the biggest  issues. 

 Q13. (Fred Luffer (phonetic), Bear Stearns)  You said warm weather in Europe was responsible for about a 5%  decline in gas production, but it look like on a YoverY basis, it  was down about 10%. So is it just the effect of natural decline, the  difference between those two numbers, or again is there some  maintenance related effects? 

 A.  The 5% I was talking about was on our total gas volumes, all in, all  geographic areas. The numbers you calculated are exactly right if you go on a specific geographic basis. The impact on gas finds is  not an issue of production volume, it's a function of demand, if the  demand is there, we've got the gas. 

 Q14. (Fred Luffer (phonetic), Bear Stearns)  So 100% of the decline is weather related then? 

 A.  That's right. 

 Q15. (David Wheeler (phonetic), JP Morgan)  To clarify on the last question, you're saying the impact of the  weather on European volumes or on gas volumes around the world? 

 A.  The 5% is on total gas volumes, all in. 

 Q16. (David Wheeler (phonetic), JP Morgan)  Your Asian refining throughput fell off a bit, was that because of  downtime at any major facilities? 

 A.  We basically had planned turnaround in three of our refineries in Japan. 

 Q17. (David Wheeler (phonetic), JP Morgan)  And back up next quarter to normal levels? 

 A.  Right. We've come off those turnarounds and  coming back to economic  capacity. 

 Q18. (David Wheeler (phonetic), JP Morgan)  You mentioned the sale of the copper operations. What's the earnings  contributions from those operations... rough figures historically? 

 A.  The earnings impact on a quarterly basis? 

 Q19. (David Wheeler (phonetic), JP Morgan)  Right, because that's going to come out starting in 3Q? 

 A.  It's in the $10-20m range. 

 Q20. (David Wheeler (phonetic), JP Morgan)  The buyback program has been pretty consistently $1.5b a quarter, it  slowed down a bit, should we read anything into that in terms of you  wanting to spend more money, increase capital spending and therefore  less allocation of capital to share repurchases? Or, was that just  something to do in 2Q? 

 A.  No, I wouldn't read anything into it. It's just our normal balanced  approach to looking at T-share program and our capital investment  profile but no signal there of any real change. On our share  buyback, we get on a ratable basis and stay there and that's what  you can expect to see unless there's some major change which we don't expect. 

 Q21. (Michael Young, Gerrard Klower (phonetic))  Could you clarify your comments on the handling of the UK tax rate  change in 3Q. It was mentioned by you and in the press release. Do  you think you'll break this out as a non-operational item? Or do you  expect that it will be included in operating results? Could you also  quantify the amount investors should expect? 

 A.  On the reporting side of the equation, we're going to kind of work that through and you'll see it in our 3Q announcements when we take the effect of the UK surcharge. If you look at the impact on  earnings, I think you can expect to see in excess of $200m  associated with deferred taxes. 

 Q22. (Michael Young, Gerrard Klower (phonetic))  That's the one time impact and then there's obviously the ongoing  effect, correct? 

 A.  That's right and we're still working through that. 

 Q23. (Michael Young, Gerrard Klower (phonetic))  Has there been any talk internally as to whether there may be some  structural change that may be going on in the US refining and  marketing market that has caused the huge margin compression or is  the view of the company that this is just more of a cyclical move? 

 A.  The short answer is really the cyclical nature of the business. We've got the rapid rise in crude prices that have impacted the margins here, the inventory situation. The short answer is cyclical  as opposed to structural. 

 Q24. (Matt Warburton, UBS Warburg)  On the downstream, there's still a wide variance between your  operating rates internationally and those domestically. Given that  although refining margins have improved sequentially in the US, it  still seems a very different operating strategy. Can you comment on  why you're sparing capacity internationally and why not  domestically? You mentioned in your commentary about the gas-oil  project and potentially shipping volumes to the UK. Last year, if  you look at your extensions and discoveries, the (indiscernible) are  booking provided a substantial portion of your booking and  discoveries.  Can we expect a similar large slug (phonetic) of gas  to be book as and when this project is finalized. 

 A.  What we would do anywhere on the world is run our capacity on what's  economic and what's making money for us. While we're not very pleased with the downstream refining margins in the US, it still  makes money for us and we are one of the most efficient refiners  going. You can see volume impact as we run our refineries to meet  demand and see the kind of increased earnings in the downstream that  we captured in 2Q particularly versus competition. The sparing of  capacity in Europe and in Asia reflects the very weak margins that  we're seeing there. The difference being the margins in Asia are  below water as opposed to the US where they're weak but we're making  money. Not as much strategy as the economics of running a global  refining circuit. When the Gutter project progresses through the  normal reviews and we've reached the agreements and all the terms  and conditions are set, there's no doubt you'll see an impact on our  reserves. 

 Q25. (Matt Warburton, UBS Warburg)  In Europe, you mentioned in 2Q that the volume decline YoverY was  weather related and that you have the gas and it's demand dependent.  Norwegian gas volumes are increasing in sales into  continental  Europe. Do you view that as any threat to your Netherlands gas  position from a market share perspective regardless of the crude  price effect on pricing in 3Q and potential 4Q? 

 A.  No not really. Don't see that effect at all. 

 Q26. (Mark Gilman, First Albany Corp.)  I'm estimating the OPEC curtailment impact at about 85-90k a day. Is  that the number you're getting at? 

 A.  No, it's a little lower than that, it's in the 60k range. 

 Q27. (Mark Gilman, First Albany Corp.)  Is it primarily Nigeria? 

 A.  It's a combination of those countries: Nigeria, Abu Dhabi 

 Q28. (Mark Gilman, First Albany Corp.)  There was a question previously about operating costs. I'm seeing a  similar kind of effect as was described earlier in the US and my  question relates to DD&A which might be up significantly and  contribute to the variances. Can you comment on US upstream DD&A? 

 A.  When we look at our DD&A we don't see any kind of significant increase on whatever comparison period you're doing. Probably the  more logical one is to go back a year over year to look at DD&A.  It's up a little bit but no where near any degree of significance. 

 Q29. (Mark Gilman, First Albany Corp.)  Are there any inventory effects in the foreign chemicals earnings? 

 A.  None. 

 Q30. (Mark Gilman, First Albany Corp.)  None whatsoever? 

 A.  None. 

 Q31. (Mark Gilman, First Albany Corp.)  The foreign exchange effects, is that all balance sheet translation  or is that an attempt to capture operational affects as well? 

 A.  Both. 

 Q32. (Mark Gilman, First Albany Corp.)  Both? 

 A.  Right. 

 Q33. (Mark Gilman, First Albany Corp.)  I'm speaking of the $100m mentioned in the release. 

 A.  Right. 

 Q34. (Mark Gilman, First Albany Corp.)  And that's both? 

 A.  Right, yeah. 

 Q35. (Mark Gilman, First Albany Corp.)  What about the beneficial effects of the weakening dollar on  overseas margins. Is that in there too? I'm asking whether the  beneficial impact on a transitional basis of a weakening dollar is  included as a counter to that foreign exchange hit as you describe  it, if it includes operational items? 

 A.  What we're trying to reflect is the bottom line impact of for-ex on  our earnings when we make the comment of in excess of $100m range. All in. 

 Q36. (Mark Gilman, First Albany Corp.)  The language in the release concerning favorable resolution of  overseas tax items is a little bit different in this quarter than it  has been in prior quarters. Can you comment on what that difference  in that language is all about? 

 A.  Nothing really in the difference of the language. What we're really  just trying to point out is that in any given time period, our effective tax rate has been impacted by some favorable impacts in whatever operating period. When you look at our effective tax rate over the last six or seven quarters, it's in the 40, 41, 42 range it bounces around depending upon any given quarter. That's all we're trying to comment on. 

 Q37. (Mark Gilman, First Albany Corp.)  It suggests that these are one-time effects. It that the way it  should be interpreted? 

 A.  No, not really. No. 

 Q38. (Fidel Gate (phonetic), Fahnestock and Co. (phonetic))  Did I hear you saying that $400m were cost savings and $1b was lower  oil and gas prices? 

 A.  There are a lot of pluses and minuses including the fact that we bring new operations on and we see some other impacts. If you look  at our total operating expenses all in, 1H01 versus 1H02, we're down  like, $1.4b. There's $400m of that associated with efficiencies. The  energy savings are in excess of $1b but then we also look at the  impact of new operations when we bring a Durasol (phonetic) on or a  Sierra Negro on stream. We're just trying to do the reconciliation  so we get a pretty clear picture of our efficiency so we can see the  capture of those efficiencies. 

 Q39. (Fidel Gate (phonetic), Fahnestock and Co. (phonetic))  On chemical, the jump in earnings between 1Q and 2Q this year,  despite much higher natural gas prices and oil prices, I understand  you had record volume sales. Margin must have expanded significantly  over the very short period of time, right or wrong? 

 A.  The margin effect wasn't that significant. It was the impact of volumes. 

 Q40. (Fidel Gate (phonetic), Fahnestock and Co. (phonetic))  You mean the volume more than doubled your earnings between first  and second. 1Q was 132 and 2Q was 269. You did not double your total  volume, did you? 

 A.  I was commenting on 2Q01 versus 2Q02. 

 Q41. (Fidel Gate (phonetic), Fahnestock and Co. (phonetic))  No, I'm talking about sequentially. 1Q02 versus 2Q02. Chemical  earnings doubled and that is despite higher oil and gas prices? 

 A.  And the major impact on our earning versus 1Q were commodity margins  in all areas. The volume impact was there but the most significant  impact on our earnings was the margins. 

 Q42. (Fidel Gate (phonetic), Fahnestock and Co. (phonetic))  From what you see right now, the industry indicator, do you see that  continuing or subsiding? Any changes? 

 A.  We're encouraged by the fact that the margins are a lot stronger in  2Q than in 1Q, and they're holding. But it's hard to see if they're going to be sustained. 

 Q43. (Michael Mare (phonetic), Prudential)  You've cited over the last couple of quarters the fact that  producible capacity is growing according to plan but actual  production is not. When I add up the projects in Nigeria, it looks  like there might be 800k barrels a day new production over the next  four or five year -- your share about 300k. There's no reasonable  prospect that Nigeria's quota is going to grow at anything like that  number. How do you reconcile those numbers or are you sort of  resigned over the near term to having larger and larger shut-in  capacity? 

 A.  We're resigned to having shut-in capacity. We don't know what OPEC is going to do or not going to do. What we're looking at is the investment itself and to put the capacity in place. 

 Q44. (Michael Mare (phonetic), Prudential)  But when you calculate returns, you have a fantastic long run record  in capital allocation and discipline. Are you assuming that you will  not generate full production from those projects in their early  years because they're shut-in?  Or are you doing the economics  assuming that they come on stream exactly as planned?Because if  they do come on stream exactly as planned, Nigeria will be seriously  in excess of its quota and that could cause an oil price problem  that hurts your returns. 

 A.  I can't debate the OPEC quota and what it's going to be when these volumes come on 2004/2005. I can share with you our view of what's happening to the supply/demand over the next several years. You probably recall back in the March 5 analysts conference we looked at what's going to happen over the next several years with some modest economic growth in the world and looking at the requirements for oil and gas in the world, we see a growth in liquid (indiscernible) requirements. Where that's going to come from, whether that's OPEC countries or the rest of the world, when we step back and look at  it, there's going to be a need for additional volumes in the world.  You've got to take a risk-based view on all the volumes that are  being added around the world. Looking out to 2004/5/6/7 time period,  there's no doubt from our minds that there's going to be an  increased demand for liquids. When we look at our overall projects,  we risk them and look at it over the long term, but I wouldn't want  to give you the impression we're going to add capacity to have it  sit idle.  In our view, there's an increasing demand for liquids in  this decade. 

 Q45. (Paul Cheng, Lehman Brothers)  The deferred tax from the UK is that going to be a special item or  it's going to go through your operating income? 

 A.  Tune into the third quarter. We want to look at how best to deal with that issue. Deferred tax impact is in excess of $200m and we're going to sort through those details. I think the operative issue for everyone is what's the impact on ExxonMobil on their deferred taxes with $200m plus. 

 Q46. (Paul Cheng, Lehman Brothers)  With regard to foreign exchange, in the press release it talks about  YoverY $100m (indiscernible) does that refer to the foreign exchange  laws? 

 A.  It's both. If you go back to our press release from a year ago, we commented that we had a slightly favorable impact on foreign  exchange. The lion's share of that $100m plus is the weakening of  the dollar in 2Q02. 

 Q47. (Paul Cheng, Lehman Brothers)  The majority is really in the (indiscernible) 2Q02? 

 A.  Right. 

 Q48. (Paul Cheng, Lehman Brothers)  Do you have your gas capacity in the Netherlands versus the current  production level? 

 A.  Don't have that detail. Where are you headed with that? 

 Q49. (Paul Cheng, Lehman Brothers)  You're talking about your production capacity and I believe you have  some idle or excess capacity in the Netherlands and that may be  partly due to make up the 3% YoverY gain that you're talking about  on the overall production. 

 A.  Our production volumes would be higher if the demand was there so I  can't disagree with that. 

 Q50. (Paul Cheng, Lehman Brothers)  But you don't have a figure for that capacity? 

 A.  No. 

 Q51. (Paul Cheng, Lehman Brothers)  Is there any benefit from the (indiscernible) crude for this  quarter? 

 A.  Very small impact. 

 Q52. (Paul Cheng, Lehman Brothers)  (indiscernible) How much is the export from that refinery to Asia.  (indiscernible) Is that going help you strengthen the Asian market?  Or is the volume so huge it isn't going to matter? 

 A.  I don't have any specific volumes on the exports to Asia. It's a relatively small number. But when you look at the margins in Japan it's going to take a little more than volume to have an impact on  that margin. 

 Q53. (Paul Cheng, Lehman Brothers)  On the pension claim, you're using 9.5% in the US on your assumption  on the long-term rate of return. Is there any trend of revisiting  that assumption or do you fell comfortable on that? 

 A.  When we look at the performance over time, we had the 9.5-12% over the last 10-year time period. We always revisit our assumptions and take a look at them but the 9.5% assumption is about in the middle where everybody is in the world. It's not particularly aggressive or conservative but like the rest of the world, we're revisiting those assumptions. 

 Q54. (Albert Anton, Karl H. Forzheimer)  In the release, you mentioned it was back full operating but that's  been kind of a moving target. I wonder if you can give us a feel for  where it is relative to the last couple of year and what you expect  for the period ahead? Were there any sizable expenses in restarting  it? Or any expenses due to the political/military situation in the  area? 

 A.  No excessive expenses associated with restart. We'll see the normal  field decline just like we would see in any place. We're about 750m  cubic feet a day there and operations are stable but it is a mature  field and we'll see the kind of normal declines and do the normal  things we would do and manage that reservoir as appropriate. But  stable operations. 

 Q55. (Jack Iden (phonetic), McDonald investments)  Looking at the foreign earnings, making adjustments to price effect,  volume effect your income contribution should have been higher. Was  there a bonus last year? A lack of bonus this year from Nigeria or  something like that to make this difference? 

 A.  No, nothing unusual. If we look at the reconciliation, if you're talking about the upstream side of the equation and you look at the impact of gas prices and crude realizations, that's the lion's share of the difference between the earnings in the two periods. There are some pluses and minuses associated with volume and exploration expense,  but none of them are significant. When you total it all  up, and you look at the earnings, the realizations for crude and gas  prices are well over $200m, which basically is the delta between the  two periods. 

 Q56. (George Gaspar, Robert Bayer)  Regarding Nigeria. Several years ago before the merger, Mobil had an  exploration agreement offshore, Sao Tome, nothing ever materialize  in terms of exploration. I understand there's going to be a lease  sale it's underway this month that is going to involve acreage in  the new joint development zone between Nigeria and the islands of  Sao Tome and Principe. I'm wondering if Mobil still has rights that  never really were drilled even on an exploratory basis, or do they  have to come back and be a new player in the bidding process? 

 A.  Can't answer that. Don't know. 

 Q57. (Paul Sanque (phonetic), Deutsche Bank)  Regarding the LNG to be sold in the UK. The off take of that is  subject to the spot price in the UK now, and will be a risk for  Exxon and the (indiscernible) drilling corp. to take? 

 A.  The short answer is that we'll compete in that market whatever the gas prices there is. The volumes are projected in the 2006 time period. 

 Q58. (Paul Sanque (phonetic), Deutsche Bank)  But effectively you're going to be the off taker of your own LNG and  selling it in the UK gas market at your own risk? Will you be  shipping the gas ourselves? 

 A.  We're looking into the terms on how to best handle the transportation between Gutter and the UK. 

 Q59. (Paul Sanque (phonetic), Deutsche Bank)  Regarding the East-West pipeline. The return on that was stated at  12% I was wondering how the entry to that stacks up to any comments  you might have to make on the Saudi gas projects and if you could  make some observations on the west-east entry and how things are in  Saudi Arabia? 

 A.  We entered into an agreement for the negotiations and there's a lot  more let to go on the East-West pipeline discussions. I can't comment on the 12%, not our number. I think you know how we feel  about low-return projects. We're not interested in them. We want  them to be accretive to earnings. On the West-East pipeline project,  basically we've reached an agreement to enter into a framework to  discuss the project itself and the specifics terms and conditions  for the West-East pipeline have not been finalize. With regard to  the Saudi deal I'll stick to what I've said in the past. We've  entered into an agreement with the kingdom to not comment on how the  negotiations are going so I'll leave it at that. 

 Q60. (Mark Gilman, First Albany Corp.)  When does the next ARUN LNG contract expire? What's the size of it. 

 A.  We don't have that details of that. We'll have to get back to you. 

   CO
exxn : Exxon Mobil Corporation
   IN
i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1300003 : Crude Petroleum Extraction
   NS
c18 : Ownership Changes | c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | ntra : Transcript
   RE
africaz : Africa | asiaz : Asia | namz : North America | seasiaz : Southeast Asia | usa : United States
   AN
Document fndw000020020914dy810010v
  


 HD
 Abstract of  Q4  2001  Exxon  Mobil Corporation Earnings Conference Call - Final 
   WC
1,914 words
   PD
23 January 2002
   ET
06:00 PM GMT
   SN
Financial Disclosure Wire
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
 (c) Copyright eMediaMillWorks, Inc. (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.). All Rights Reserved. 

   LP
 CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS 

 . Lee Raymond, Chairman and CEO 

   TD
 OVERVIEW 

 Full year results were strong at $15.6bn. In 4Q01, upstream affectted by crude and gas prices, downstream results were strong and chemicals improved. 

 A. 2001 Overall Review   1. 2001 was a good year, although market conditions were more      challenging.   2. Annual earnings, excluding merger items and special items, of      $15.6bn.   3. Upstream earnings at $10.4bn and downstream earnings at $4.2bn.   4. Chemicals had record sales volumes and ROCE of 6%.   5. Estimated ROCE was 18%.   6. Invested $12.3bn up 17% YonY, excluding investment in Sinopec   7. In upstream invested $8.8bn up  27% YonY.   8. Capex expected to increase 10% in 2002  - are on target to      reach.   9. Had dividends gained from upstream projects.   10. In chemicals, began state of the art petrochemical complex.   11. Increased dividend payment.   12. Repurchased 138.8m shares at cost of $57bn, reducing shares outstanding by 121m   13. Debt reduced to $10.6bn with cash falling to $6.5bn.   14. Net debt fell to $4.1bn  resulting in net debt to capital ratio      of 5.1% 

 B. Fourth Quarter Overall Review   1. Industry conditions became very challenging mainly due to      weather.   2. Crude prices fell sharply from Q3 reducing upstream earnings and      benefiting international downstream   3. Chemical business improved QonQ, although at the bottom of      cycle.   4. Normalized earnings excluding  merger expenses was $0.42 per      share   5. Includingmerger expenses, net income was $2.7bn or $0.39 per      share 

 C. Q4 Upstream   1. US     1. Earnings were $426m down $138 YonY due to a fall in crude and        natural gas prices     2. Liquid volumes down 4% from Q400 and  were up 3% QonQ.     3. Realizations down 20% QonQ.     4. Natural gas volumes down 6% (Nb. effect of Webster in 4Q00).     5. N. America gas volumes down 2% 4Q00 (also impacted by Webster)     6. Natural gas realizations fell 18% QonQ     7. Exploration expenses at $108m, down $71m QonQ   2. International     1. Earnings of $1.24bn.     2. Liquid gains offset by downtimes giving net decrease of 2%        YonY and increased 1% QonQ.     3. Crude realizations down 25% QonQ.     4. Natural gas volumes up 3% YonY. 5. Natural gas realization up 2.5% QonQ     6. Exploration expenses were $175m -  down QonQ 

 D. Q4 Downstream   1. Overall earnings of $1bn - strong results reflecting new      initiatives.   2. Total petroleum product sales were in line with 4Q00.   3. Aviation volumes down 10%.   4. US     1. Earnings of $281m down YonY due to poor margins.     2. Refinery throughputs up 4% YonY.     3. Marketing margins at $0.02 per gallon lower QonQ and YonY.     4. Total petroleum product sales up  11% YonY due to increased        gasoline sales.     5. US Lubricant and Specialty business had solid earnings.   5. International     1. Earnings of $738m down YonY and up QonQ due to self-help initiatives.     2. Refinery throughputs down 5% YonY.     3. Capacity loss reduced by 14% YonY and 24% QonQ.     4. Absolute price finalizations resulted in negative earnings        impact of $50m. 5. Petroleum product sales flat QonQ and down 6% YonY.     6. Positive inventory effects of $30m more than previously.     7. Have taken $60m charge in Q4 earnings due to Argentina. 

 E. Chemicals   1. Solid results due to long term strategies throughout business      cycle.   2. Earnings up 34% QonQ at $209m and down 3% YonY.   3. Specialty chemicals showed resilience.   4. Petrochemical: US sales down 9% from 4Q00 and non US sales      increased 5% from 4Q00. 

 F. Other Operations   1. Earnings of $100m down YonY due to lower copper prices and      sales.   2. Coal realizations improved   3. Power business earnings in Hong Kong very strong 

 G. Corporate and Financing   1. FY01 cash of $6.5bn down 0.6bn YonY. 2. FY01 total debt at $10.6bn down $2.8bn YonY.   3. Share repurchase: since FY00 spent $5bn to reduce shares by      121.4m. During Q4 repurchased 37m shares at a cost of $1.48bn.      Shares outstanding fell by 32bn.   4. Corporate and financing charges of $118m down.   5. 2002 outlook is for a modest increase in corporate and financing cost. Guidance is raised to $100 - $150m per quarter.   6. Q4 effective tax rate of 36% down YonY. ETR was 40% for year -     suggest use this for planning. 

 QUESTION AND ANSWER SUMMARY 

 Q1. (Dan Tyler, Bank of America Securities)  On capital budget for 2002, expand on the upstream growth? 

 A.  Most of growth will be from upstream. The breakdown does not differ  from what was said in the past. There are now other projects moving  into execution phase.Increased spending is a reflection of the increased opportunities. 

 Q2. (Dan Tyler)  On Mobil Bay(phonetic), how much did this contribute? What were the  contributions of inventory adjustments? 

 A.  YonY LIFO gains were $30m - mainly from foreign operations. Mobil Bay is the combination of operations and there has been an improved output due to this. 

 Q3. (Scott Orson, Fidelity)  Explain degree of self-help in refining and marketing outside US in  Q4? 

 A.  Refineries have higher utilizations with lower downturn since the merger. Operating efficiency has grown. Refining has played a significant role in improvement in downstream.  Will elaborate on March 5. 

 Q4. ((Indiscernible))  Clarify comments on Angola? 

 A.  Cazumba(phonetic)  A is on track for first oil in 2004. Cazumba B has a 2005 start-up date, but construction will not take  long; it  is in the planning stages. Cazumba C is also in planning stages and  behind B. Problem is its richness; so development is a challenge. 

 Q5. ((Indiscernible))  Comment further on Pashadon (phonetic)? 

 A.  Still work to do. Third well had positive results. It is a big project. 

 Q6. ((Indiscernible))  Any target date for initial production? 

 A.  It is not in target forecast for 2005. 

 Q7. (Paul Ting, Saloman Smith Barney)  Comment on the synergy target, especially the cost reductions? Any  guidance for 2002? Is $7bn still the long term target? 

 A.  Of the $7bn synergies target, $2bn was from revenues and $5bn from costs. Now are at $4bn relative to $5bn.  Are on or ahead of  targets. Had over $1bn of cost synergies in year. Will elaborate on  March 5. 

 Q8. (as before)  On foreign downstream results, how would you characterize Q4? 

 A.  Lubricant specialties are an important product.  Also 5 units in Japan now run as one unit. All refineries tend to be concentrated,  as opposed to the competition. 

 Q9. (as before)  Is this repeatable? 

 A.  This is a permanent feature. 

 Q10. (Doug Tereson, Morgan Stanley)  Comment on FX item for Argentina? 

 A.  In total for Argentina it was $60m and $50m was foreign downstream. 

 Q11. (as before)  In Venezuela are you still party to the L and G (phonetic)  project  ?  What is the status of projects in China? 

 A.  Continue to look at L+G in Venezuela - have nothing more specific to  say. In China, the downstream Fujion (phonetic) study is complete, and the Quongdon (phonetic) study is underway. On West to East pipeline, are still looking at it. 

 Q12. (Steve Pfeiffer, Merrill Lynch)  On international R+M, what is the underlying rate of earnings when  strip out all the noise? 

 A.  Marketing and refining was negative Q4 to Q4, but marketing was positive Q4 to Q4. 

 Q13. (as before)  Can you focus on long haul crude and inventory effects and  Argentina? 

 A.  Argentina was about -$50m and long haul crude was -$50m. We look at  this YonY and carry out factor analysis. 

 Q14. (as before)  On US chemicals, was there anything unusual in the numbers? 

 A.  Not specifically. There were higher benzene margins and perazyline (phonetic) was better. Specialties had a significant impact, where costs were reduced. 

 Q15. (as before)  Was there a major change in contribution for specialties? 

 A.  Not really. 

 Q16. (David Wheeler, Deutsche Bank)  Impact on production related to OPEC and non OPEC cuts? 

 A.  In Q4, it is about 10 -11 per day. 

 Q17. (Paul Chang, Lehman Brothers)  Figures for sequential variance for inventory impact and long haul  crude from Q3 to Q4? 

 A.  Price finalization was positive in Q3 to negative in Q4. Were better  refining and marketing margins. All these things add together and  were drivers. Have no specific analysis. 

 Q18. (as before)  Maturity of debt is related to international downstream? 

 A.  Yes. 

 Q19. (as before)  On European oil production, were any fields offline that may come  back in 1Q02? 

 A.  Shearwater has some liquid contribution that was lost. 

 Q20. (as before)  So there was a natural decline from Q3 to Q4? 

 A.  True, except for Shearwater. There were some fields that were not online as per guidance and are other fields in the queue. 

 Q21.  In existing production there was no major field offline? 

 A.  There was another project that should have started earlier and there  was Shearwater. 

 Q22. (Bruce Landing, A.G. Edwards)  On downstream, are you seeing a recovery in jet fuel? Are margins  improving? What is the outlook for 2002? 

 A.  Are not finding many indications of an economic recovery. There is too much noise in the short term to read the situation. 

 Q23. (as before)  On Argentina, will there be further write downs? 

 A.  Will continue to look at the country, but have provided for what has  been necessary. 

 Q24. (Fred Luther, Bear Sterns)  Why are pension expenses higher? 

 A.  Expenses are rising in general, as the discount rate falls and the value of pension assets falls. Impact for XOM is small as are not a great employer. 

 Q25. (as before)  On US chemicals, industry perazylyne margins fell in Q4. Did  specialties add to the  growth alone? 

 A.  Aeromatics (phonetic) margins also improved from Q3 to Q4. Specialties and cost performance were also responsible. 

 Q26. (as before)  Were there inventory gains? 

 A.  No. 

 Q27.  Industry margins for petrochemicals have fallen further in 1Q02. Is  there enough of a boost from specialties cost reductions for 1Q02 to  be above 4Q01? 

 A.  Would not want to predict. Margins are tough in Q1. 

 Q28. (Scott Smith, Dresdener)  On international upstream in Asia, was this up due to economic  sparing? 

 A.  Sparing was in Asia Pacific and Singapore. There was more sparing in  Q4 in Asia than in Q3. 

 Q29. (as before)  Are those levels maintained? 

 A.  I think so. 

 Q30. (as before)  Will spend more on maintenance downstream capital in 2002 due to new  gasoline standards in N. America? 

 A.  Yes, there will be more, but this is not all spent in one year. 

 Q31. (as before)  Will there be a large step change this year versus last year? 

 A.  Not a large step change. 

 Q32. (as before)  Potentially not as much as the Coca project and other revenue  enhancing projects last year? 

 A.  Probably not. 

 Q33. (Arjon Murphy, Goldman Sachs)  For oil volumes quantify the YonY positive benefits from  PSE  (phonetic) effects due to lower price realizations? 

 A.  Impact of Codo (phonetic) was about $10m and the price impact on the  other side was $10m. 

 Q34. (as before)  Are North sea oil volumes declining? 

 A.  Would not say that. Shearwater will change the picture and there are  other North Sea projects. 

 Q35. (Mark Flannery, CSFB)  On US natural gas, will this number improve in 1Q02? 

 A.  Volumes are in a state of constant decline. 

 Q36. (as before)  So, we should simply apply the normal decline rates to it? 

 A.  It is about flat but may increase.  Must look beyond the US and at Canada, which would be a positive. 

   NS
ncat : Content Types | ntra : Transcript
   RE
asiaz : Asia | namz : North America | usa : United States
   AN
Document fndw000020020913dy1n000z6
  
Search Summary

 Text
rst=fndw and (hd=q1 or hd=q2 or hd=q3 or hd=q4) and hd=exxon not hd=event
   Date
All Dates
   Source
All Sources
   Author
All Authors
   Company
All Companies
   Subject
All Subjects
   Industry
All Industries
   Region
All Regions
   Language
English
   Results Found
37
   Timestamp
6 December 2016 8:33 AM GMT
  
