 
•	 Q3 2016 Alphabet Inc Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q2 2016 Alphabet Inc Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q2 2016 Care.com Inc Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q1 2016 Alphabet Inc Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q4 2015 Alphabet Inc Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q3 2015 Alphabet Inc Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q2 2015 Google Inc Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q1 2015 Google Inc Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q4 2014 Google Inc Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q3 2014 Google Inc Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q1 2014 Google Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q4 2013 Google Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q3 2013 Google Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q2 2013 Google Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q1 2013 Google Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q4 2012 Google Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q3 2012 Google Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q2 2012 Google Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q1 2012 Google Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q4 2011 Google Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q3 2011 Google Inc Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q2 2011 Google Inc Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q1 2011 Google Inc Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q4 2010 Google Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q3 2010 Google Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q2 2010 Google Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q1 2010 Google Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q4 2009 Google Q&A Session - Final
•	 Q4 2009 Google Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q3 2009 Google Q&A Session - Final
•	 Q3 2009 Google Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q2 2009 Google Q&A Session - Final
•	 Q2 2009 Google Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q1 2009 Google Q&A Session - Final
•	 Q1 2009 Google Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Google 2008 Q4 Q&A Session - Final
•	 Q4 2008 Google Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q3 2008 Google Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q2 2008 Google Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q1 2008 Google Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q4 2007 Google Earnings Conference Call - Final   
•	 Q3 2007 Google Earnings Conference Call - Final   
•	 Q2 2007 Google Earnings Conference Call - Final   
•	 Q1 2007 Google Earnings Conference Call - Final   
•	 Q4 2006 Google Earnings Conference Call - Final  
•	 Q3 2006 Google Earnings Conference Call - Final  
•	 Q2 2006 Google Earnings Conference Call - Final  
•	 Q1 2006 Google Earnings Conference Call - Final  
•	 Q4 2005 Google Earnings Conference Call - Final  
•	 Q3 2005 Google Earnings Conference Call - Final  
•	 Q2 2005 Google Earnings Conference Call - Final  
•	 Q1 2005 Google Earnings Conference Call - Final  
•	 Q4 2004 Google Earnings Conference Call - Final  
•	 Q3 2004 Google Earnings Conference Call - Final  


 HD
 Q3  2016 Alphabet Inc Earnings Call - Final
   WC
9,174 words
   PD
27 October 2016
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©016 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved. 

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Welcome to the Alphabet Q3 2016 earnings call.

   TD
(Operator Instructions)

As a reminder, today's conference call is being recorded. I would now like to turn the conference call over to Ellen West, Head of Investor Relations. Please go ahead

ELLEN WEST, HEAD OF IR, ALPHABET INC.: Thank you. Good afternoon, everyone, and welcome to Alphabet's third-quarter 2016 earnings conference call. With us today are Ruth Porat and Sundar Pichai.

While you've been waiting for the call to start, you've been listening to Dua Lipa, a rising new pop star from London whose most recent single on YouTube has found fans all over the world, and cracked the top 40 in the US, ahead of her debut album release early next year.

Now I'll quickly cover the Safe Harbor. Some of the statements that we make today may be considered forward-looking, including statements regarding our future investments, our long-term growth and innovation, the expected performance of our businesses, and our expected level of capital expenditures. These statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially.

For information please refer to the risk factors discussed in our Form 10-K for 2015, filed with the SEC. Any forward-looking statements that we make are based on assumptions as of today, and we undertake no obligation to update them.

During this call, we will present both GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures. A reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP measures is included in today's earnings press release.

As you know, we distribute our earnings release through our Investor Relations website, located at ABC.xyz/investor. This call is also being webcast from our IR website, where a replay of the call will be available later today. And now, I'll turn the call over to Ruth

RUTH PORAT, CFO, ALPHABET INC.: Thank you, Ellen. Our revenue of $22.5 billion in the third quarter underscores the terrific performance of our businesses globally.

For the quarter, our consolidated revenue grew 23% in constant currency versus last year, notwithstanding a challenging year-on-year comparison. Once again, the primary driver was mobile search, with ongoing strength in YouTube, and important contributions for programmatic advertising and Play. I'm going to present you in the following order:

First, review the quarter on a consolidated basis for Alphabet. Second, review the results for each of Google and Other Bets. Finally I will conclude with our outlook. Sundar will then review our business and product highlights for the quarter, after which will take your questions.

Beginning with a summary of Alphabet's consolidated financial performance. Total revenue was $22.5 billion, up 20% year over year, and up 4% sequentially. We realized a negative currency impact on our revenues year over year of $196 million, or $91 million after the benefit of our hedging program. Holding currency constant to prior periods, our total revenue grew 23% year over year and increased 5% sequentially.

Alphabet revenues by geography highlight the strength of our business around the globe. US revenue was up 22% year over year to $10.6 billion.

UK revenue was up 5% year over year to $1.9 billion, reflecting the meaningful impact of the decline in the British pound, relative to last year. In fixed FX terms, the UK grew 18% year over year.

Rest of world revenue was up 22% versus last year to $9.9 billion. In fixed FX terms, revenues were up 25% year over year.

GAAP other cost of revenues was $4.5 billion, up 30% year over year. Non-GAAP other cost of revenues was $4.2 billion, up 29% year over year, primarily driven by Google-related expenses. Specifically, costs associated with operating our data centers, including depreciation, and content acquisition costs, primarily for YouTube.

GAAP operating expenses were $8 billion in the quarter, up 15% year over year. Non-GAAP operating expenses were $6.5 billion, up 13% year over year. On a GAAP basis, operating income was $5.8 billion, up 22% versus last year.

The operating margin was 26%. Non-GAAP operating income was $7.6 billion, up 24% versus last year. The operating margin was 34%.

Stock-based compensation totaled $1.9 billion up 30% year over year, and up 24% sequentially, primarily reflecting the step-up from our annual equity refresh for employees at the start of Q3. Headcount at the end of the quarter was 69,953, up 3,378 people from last quarter. Headcount growth is typically seasonally highest in the third quarter, as new graduates join. Consistent with prior quarters, the vast majority of new hires or engineers and product managers to support growth in priority areas such as Cloud.

Other income and expense was $278 million. We provide more detail on the line items within OI&E in our earnings press release. Our effective tax rate was 16%.

Net income was $5.1 billion on a GAAP basis and $6.3 billion on a non-GAAP basis. Earnings per diluted share were $7.25 on a GAAP basis, and $9.06 on a non-GAAP basis.

Turning now to CapEx and operating cash flow, CapEx for the quarter was $2.6 billion, the substantial majority of which supported the Google segment. Operating cash flow was $9.8 billion, with free cash flow of $7.3 billion. We ended the quarter with cash and marketable securities of $83.1 billion, of which approximately $50 billion or 60% is held overseas.

Let me now turn to our segment financial results. Starting with the Google segment, revenue was $22.3 billion, up 20% year over year, which includes the impact of FX. In terms of the revenue detail, Google Sites revenue was $16.1 billion in the quarter, up 23% year over year, and up 4% sequentially. Year-on-year growth reflects strength in mobile search. We continue to have decent growth from desktop and tablet search.

YouTube revenue continues to grow at a very significant rate, driven primarily by video advertising across TrueView, with a growing contribution from buying on DoubleClick Bid Manager. Network revenue was $3.7 billion, up 1% year on year and flat sequentially, reflecting the ongoing strong growth of programmatic and AdMob, offset by the traditional network businesses. Other revenue from Google was $2.4 billion, up 39% year over year, and up 12% sequentially. Year-over-year growth was driven by Play and Cloud.

Finally, we provide monetization metrics to give you a sense of the price and volume dynamics of our advertising businesses. You can find the details in our earnings press release. Let me remind you that these metrics are affected by currency movements.

Total traffic acquisition costs were $4.2 billion or 21% of total advertising revenue, up 17% year over year, and up 5% sequentially. The increase in both sites TAC as a percentage of sites revenue, as well as network TAC as a percentage of network revenue, reflects the fact our strongest growth areas, namely mobile search and programmatic, carry higher TAC. Total TAC as a percentage of total advertising revenues was up slightly sequentially, as a result of higher TAC for mobile search, offsetting the benefits of a revenue mix shift from network to sites.

Operating income excluding SBC was $8.4 billion, up 19% versus last year, for an operating margin of 38%. Google's stock-based compensation totaled $1.6 billion for the quarter, up 28% year over year. Operating income, reflecting the impact of SBC, was $6.8 billion, up 17% versus last year, and the operating margin was 30%. CapEx for the quarter was $2.4 billion, reflecting investments in production equipment, facilities, and data center construction.

Turning to Other Bets, as we have said previously we think it remains most instructive to look at financials for Other Bets over a longer time horizon, because as you have seen, quarterly revenues and expenses can be lumpy for three primary reasons: First, the Other Bets are early stage. Second, they represent an aggregation of businesses operating in different industries. And finally, they maybe impacted by one-time items like partnership deals.

For the third quarter, Other Bets revenue was $197 million, primarily generated by Nest, Fiber and Verily. Operating loss, excluding SBC, was $665 million in the third quarter. Including the impact of SBC, operating loss was $865 million. Other Bets' CapEx was $324 million in Q3, primarily reflecting ongoing investment in our Fiber business.

I'd like to close with a few observations on our progress since the creation of Alphabet just over a year ago, as well as a review of our key themes. As we've frequently noted, our move to Alphabet was motivated by our belief that revolutionary ideas drive the next big growth areas. Long-term success requires a commitment to making bets, putting the right talent and resources behind those bets, and remaining flexible and dynamic as we pursue them. We believe our structure provides the transparency and oversight needed to make smart choices about our investment opportunities, both within Google and across Other Bets.

As we reach for moon shots that will have a big impact in the longer term, it's inevitable that will be course corrections along the way, and that some efforts will be more successful than others. Over the past year for example, you have seen us make progress and accelerate our efforts in some areas, while repositioning or taking a pause in others. We are taking the steps necessary to the lay the foundation for a stronger future.

Looking ahead, first regarding revenue, our revenue growth reflects our sustained investment in innovation. Within Google, this relentless focus has led to innovations across our advertising platforms, that have driven continued strong growth on a very large base, while at the same time we are building new businesses to serve as sources of future revenue growth.

Most notably, Google Cloud is generating substantial revenue growth reflecting the ongoing momentum in the business, as well as the enormous opportunity in this area. And earlier this month, we launched a new line of hardware devices that for the first time brings consumers the best of Google, through both hardware and software developed by Google. As discussed previously, because most of our Other Bets are pre-revenue, the other bet revenue line provides only partial insight regarding our progress, which we aim to supplement with insight regarding product progress.

For example, at Nest, product innovations and improvements including the new outdoor version of the Nest Cam are leading to increased consumer adoption of its suite of products for the home. Our self-driving car team is making terrific progress in transforming mobility, with our fleet of test cars recently passing the 2 million mile mark of autonomous driving. We are now testing our cars in four cities, enabling us to experience varied weather and driving conditions.

Second, as to expenses. As I mentioned last quarter, there are a number of factors driving higher TAC in both our sites and network businesses, and those factors persisted in the third quarter. The shift to mobile in Q3 remained the largest driver of the increase in sites TAC as a percentage of revenue.

We expect sites TAC to continue to increase as a percentage of sites revenue. The growth in network TAC in Q3 was due to the ongoing adoption of programmatic platforms by advertisers, which are subject to a higher TAC rate, a trend we expect to continue. Furthermore, with respect to Google's operating expenses, we remain committed to investing in the compelling opportunities we've identified.

Turning to Other Bets. We're building out these businesses systematically and thoughtfully, investing commensurate with requirements given the opportunities we see. Before moving on from expenses, one reminder regarding the fourth quarter:

As discussed in prior years, our marketing costs are typically weighted more heavily toward the back half of the year, due to the holiday season. Relative to last year, we have expanded portfolio of hardware products and therefore expect marketing cost to increase in the fourth quarter to support the line.

Third, regarding CapEx. At Google, the team continues to drive meaningful efficiencies in planning and operations for our technical infrastructure. With regard to CapEx investments for Other Bets, our fiber investment remains the primary driver.

Fourth, our balance sheet. Our balance sheet remains a powerful tool reflecting the strength of our cash flow, and thereby giving us the ability to invest aggressively to support our long-term growth. Our primary focus is just that, investing in the breadth of opportunities across Alphabet. And as discussed previously, our capital allocation framework begins with our outlook for the businesses, including a sensitivity analysis regarding potential CapEx and M&A, as well as view regarding working capital, and a prudent liquidity buffer.

This framework further considers complementary uses, such as a share repurchase. As announced today, our Board has authorized us to commence a repurchase of our Class C capital stock of up to $7.01934097683 billion.

In conclusion, in the third quarter, we again delivered strong revenue growth, while broadening our portfolio of products and services. Thanks to all of our colleagues around the globe, for their ingenuity and passion for pushing the frontier. I'll turn the call over to Sundar.

SUNDAR PICHAI, CEO - GOOGLE INC., ALPHABET INC.: Thanks, Ruth. I don't think I can remember a busier time in Google's history in the past few months. We introduced the world to the Google Assistant, powered by our state-of-the-art machine learning technology.

We unveiled a beautiful line-up of new hardware devices, including Google Home and the Pixel Phone, which is getting great reviews. We launched a new messaging app, Allo, and a new video chat app, Duo. It's been an incredible quarter.

Through it all, we are laser focused on the priorities I outlined earlier this year, and in the next few minutes, I will quickly go through our progress this past quarter. We feel well-positioned as we transition to a new era of computing. This new era is one in which people will experience computing more naturally and seamlessly, in the context of their lives, powered by intelligent assistants and the Cloud. This transition is as significant as the move over the last decade from desktops to mobile devices.

As we have rolled out products like the Google Assistant, Pixel, Google Home, and Allo, we have gotten a glimpse of that future. And with our growing crowd business, we are helping our enterprise customers take advantage of this new era of computing, as well.

Today, I want to walk through our progress across Google's key focus areas, and the success of our growing advertising business. First, making knowledge and information accessible to everyone. We have long aimed to help people find the information that they want, right when they need it, and sometimes even before they think to ask for it.

We reached an important milestone in the journey this quarter, with the launch of the Google Assistant, which allows you to type or talk with Google in a natural conversational way, to help you get things done, regardless of the device you are using. We first introduced it in our smart messaging app, Allo, which lets you chat with the Assistant. You can even add it to a group conversation to help you and your friends decide where to go for dinner.

Early adoption of Allo and Duo has been great, and has exceeded our expectations. And the Assistant is core to the Pixel phone and Google Home. With Google Home, you can ask the Assistant to cast the salt your living room speaker, or turn on the lights in your kitchen.

And with Pixel, by simply holding the Home button, you can ask the Assistant to send a text to your mom, or pull up pictures of your cat in Google Photos. I hope you all get to try them out soon. The Assistant is simple, easy to use, and it is just the beginning. It's going to get so much better.

We are excited to bring new features to you across more of your contacts, soon. The Assistant is all possible thanks to our years of investments in computer science and machine learning. Our knowledge graph now understands over 70 billion facts about people, places, and things in the real world. And just last month, we announced our latest research on neural nets, which has given us a huge leap in translation quality. This breakthrough will help us provide even more accurate translations for people around the world.

And before I finish talking about access to information, I want to highlight the important work that our teams are doing to help American voters stay informed about the upcoming election. We've launched improved search tools to help voters get registered, find key deadlines, and learn how to vote early or by mail. We have launched these in both English and Spanish. I don't speak Spanish, but I check Google Translate, and I want to remind everyone, No Se Olvida de Votar.

Second, moving to our efforts to bring more content to more places, key to making information accessible is helping people find more great content across platforms like the web, YouTube, and Google Play. Just recently, one of our key efforts to make the mobile Web faster, The Open Source Project AMP celebrated its first birthday. It's being embraced by a very broad range of publishers and sites around the world, covering more than 700,000 domains.

One example. Tens of millions of WordPress sites now have AMP pages with page load speeds up to 90% faster than normal in some cases. We are also working on an initiative called AMP for Ads, a new approach to creating and serving ads, with speed at the heart of experience.

On YouTube, we continue to invest in bringing engaging content to the platform. We worked with many news organizations to live stream all three US presidential debates, and we saw record-breaking interest from the YouTube community. In fact, the three debates rank as the three most viewed political live streams of all time on YouTube, with over 8.5 million hours watched live, a 5X increase from the 2012 debates.

Elections-related searches on YouTube are also at an all-time high, with searches for US election content up almost 550%, compared to this time in the last election. And YouTube originals like the recently released Single by 30 remain incredibly popular, and continue to drive subscriptions for YouTube brand. And in Google Play, earlier this summer, we introduced Family Library, a way for up to six family members to share app, game, movie, TV show, or book purchases.

Third, powerful computing platforms and hardware. We have long been committed to building powerful computing platforms like Android, Chrome, and Daydream in VR, so that people can have great experiences, regardless of their device. Taking a step back, we've always believed that the open, horizontal, free platform like Android breeds more innovation, more options for users, and better business models for partners.

We open source our code. We build the most open APIs possible, and we work to create a sustainable open ecosystem. With over 4,000 distinct Android devices, we are really proud of how so many partners are having success on the platform.

This quarter, we began rolling out our newest update on Android, called Nougat, and shared that we're bringing Android apps to Chromebooks. We can't wait to see all of the incredible experiences that developers will build on Daydream, our newest platform for high-quality virtual reality experiences via smartphones. We also think there's an opportunity for us to more deeply integrate software and hardware together, to deliver great experiences that we hope will also contribute to future innovation and development of the ecosystem.

Earlier this month, we launched a family of hardware products made by Google, which in addition to the Google Pixel and Google home include the Daydream View headset and controller, our premium TV streaming device, Chromecast Ultra, and the new connected wi-fi system called Google Wifi. This portfolio of products is an example of how we can marry the best of hardware and software to deliver the best Google experience to people.

Fourth, our increasing momentum in Cloud. As we focus our efforts in the Cloud, we continue to see strong customer engagement. Last month, at the Horizon event, we introduced a new business unit, Google Cloud. Our unique and broad portfolio of products and services, that let our customers operate easily in a digital world, with the performance they demand.

Google Cloud includes Google Cloud Platform, our user-facing collaboration and productivity applications, now called G Suite, all of our data analytics and machine learning tools and APIs, and the enterprise-ready Android phones tablets and Chromebooks that access the Cloud. Our Cloud team has also been busy delivering new capabilities for our customers.

We announced plans to expand to eight new Cloud regions in 2017, from Mumbai, to Singapore, to Sao Paulo, to Frankfurt with more to come. We announced an enhanced media conference experience in Google Hangouts, with an updated user interface, instant screen sharing, support for 50 participants and a seamless integration into Calendar.

We have been using the same technology to power meetings at Google, and were so excited to share the improved experience with our customers. We also significantly upgraded Google BigQuery, our fully-managed data analytics warehouse, and make Google Cloud Machine Learning available in beta to help businesses easily train quality machine learning models.

In addition to building the best products and infrastructure we're partnering with great companies. This quarter, we forged new partnerships with Opta, Box, and Accenture.

Our investments in machine learning continue to be a very clear advantage for Google Cloud, and we're helping customers apply ML in very concrete ways. For example, Ocado, the world's largest online-only grocery retailer, is using machine learning to categorize and prioritize customer emails, which will help their support center respond to customers faster.

As we officially move into the Google Cloud era, our goal remains the same. We want to build and most open Cloud for all businesses, and make it easy for them to build and run great software. The team is firing on all cylinders to create the best Cloud products in the industry for our customers.

Now moving on to our growing advertising business, which is thriving in a mobile world. Our proposition to marketers on mobile is simple and is resonating.

Our mobile properties like Search, YouTube, Maps and Google Play are where people turn when they are actively interested in something. They're using our services because they want to actively watch something they're passionate about, or because they want to know, go, do, or buy something. They're super attentive and engaged.

It's just like people used to be glued to their TV screen during prime time. Our services are prime time for the mobile world. This matters for marketers, because those primetime moments, when people are actively interested and attentive, are the perfect time for a brand to place their ads.

For instance, hotel chain, La Quinta, now sees a third of their website traffic coming from mobile, and they use their hotel ads to help them reach travelers right when they're looking for hotel stays. They have found conversion rates to be twice as high with hotel ads, compared to regular mobile traffic, which is helping them capitalize on those prime time moments when travelers are on their phones and ready to book.

In video, YouTube continues to shine. More than 1 billion monthly users are watching hundreds of millions of hours every single day. YouTube has become the platform of choice for major brands, with a highly engaged audience, the best formats, and industry-leading measurement tools.

Recent research found that nearly half of US adults between the ages of 18 and 54 say that at least once a month, YouTube helps them when making a decision about buying something. One format that's been working really well for ad prices are bumper ads, which are stackable 6-second videos that help brands drive incremental reach and frequency. Brands like Universal Pictures have been pairing these shorter videos with their standard length ads on YouTube, and they're seeing great results, especially on mobile.

We also recently announced expanded capabilities to show marketers how TV and YouTube campaigns increase Google and YouTube searches for their brand. From early tests, we have seen that YouTube generates almost twice as many searches per impression than TV generates. In fact, across our advertising business, measurement is a critical investment. We want to give marketers the best tools out there to close the loop, between television and digital, online and off-line.

For example, global retailer IKEA, with their agency iProspect UK, used our store visits measurement tools to see how effective their digital marketing campaigns were at bringing shoppers into their stores. By incorporating store visit data, they realized that more than 10% of the people who clicked on their search ads went on to visit a physical store, and that their ROI from online ads was actually five times higher than they had previously estimated.

We introduced even more measurement solutions at this year's Advertising Week in New York, helping marketers close the loop with new tools like location extensions and store visit measurements for the Google Display Network. We have thousands of great partners who are getting terrific results from our products.

I'm really pleased with how our business teams are working closer than ever with our advertising partners, agencies, marketers, and publishers. We can't succeed unless they do, and we have made a huge push to develop deeper partnerships, and long-term win-win relationships. It's a big focus for us.

To wrap up, its been an incredibly exciting few months, and a very successful quarter. We feel extremely confident as we move into a new era of computing, and are thrilled to be working with our partners as we embark on the journey together.

I want to thank all of the Googlers around the world, who work tirelessly to turn ideas into reality for our users and partners. It's an honor to work alongside you every day. With that, I'll turn it back over to Ruth.

RUTH PORAT: Thank you, Sundar. We will now take your questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions)

Eric Sheridan, UBS.

ERIC SHERIDAN, ANALYST, UBS: Thank you so much for taking the question. Sundar, maybe for you, on the enterprise, thanks for laying out all the vision for the medium to long term on enterprise and Cloud. One of the big questions we get from investors all the time are where the key areas you need to invest going forward, in both capabilities and go to market, and how those might evolve over the next couple of years?

And then maybe a second question for Ruth, which one housekeeping matter. Ruth, with highlighting the increased marketing expense behind the product launches this year, were you referencing quarter over quarter or compared year over year, when you also launched products a year ago. Thanks so much.

SUNDAR PICHAI: On Cloud, let me talk about a few areas. We have stepped up our partnering considerably, so that we can offer customers everything they want, and we have more vehicles for going to market. So scaling up through partnerships is a big area of focus and investment for us. We are also establishing a large Cloud machine learning group, so that we can take advantage of working with our Cloud customers, and make machine learning more accessible to all of them. I would say other areas are hiring across sales, engineering and marketing. And as we head into 2017, I expect Cloud to be of our largest areas of investment and headcount growth.

RUTH PORAT: And then on your second question, there are really two parts to the statement. One, pretty obvious, is that just marking is seasonally higher whenever you go to the holiday season, and so year on year, I wanted just to accentuate the point that we expect this trend to be pronounced this year, because we're expanding and we're launching an even more expanded suite of hardware products. So I was really emphasizing the fact that the fourth quarter is higher, and even more so this year with the expanded suite.

ERIC SHERIDAN: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Heather Bellini, Goldman Sachs.

HEATHER BELLINI, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: I also wanted to ask a follow-up on the Cloud. I guess, I was wondering Sundar, if you could share with us what milestones should we be watching for in this business? And then also if you had to characterize, you mentioned a couple of different ones, but I'm wondering what type of workloads are you having most success with in GCP, and what's on your customers wish lists? What are the things, what's the top one or two things that your enterprise customers for Cloud might be asking for? Thanks

SUNDAR PICHAI: Thanks, Heather. In general, the way we see is that customers don't want to be locked in, and they want to make sure their workloads can work in, and be managed by containers that run on any platform. So our virtual machines and containers, including excellent open-sourced container management communities, which was developed by Google, offers that solution. So communities just manages the provisioning, reliability, and order scaling of workloads. So we want to pursue a hybrid strategy, including on prem, and in all public Clouds. So from a customer standpoint, they will want to use an open source workload management product, and communities can work with multiple customers. So that's broadly how we think about it.

OPERATOR: Ross Sandler, Deutsche Bank.

ROSS SANDLER, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Two questions. Sundar, first on the Alphabet structure high level, so there's been some incredible innovation that's come out of Alphabet at the various businesses. If we look at something like Auto, which was acquired by Uber, or Niantic, which was the old Google Maps team, those were teams that were inside working so inside of Google better left Alphabet to start a new company, and could have been potentially wholly-owned businesses as Google in a parallel universe. So do you think the structure is ideal for entire companies, or is it just new products and new technologies, that you see as the vision here for Alphabet long-term?

And then Ruth, the second question, just on core operating margins for Google declined a little bit versus the prior quarter trend of increasing. Can you just give some color on how much of that was due to mix towards Cloud and other things that might carry lower margin versus margin compression within the advertising business? Thank you.

SUNDAR PICHAI: Ross, on the first question I would say overall, when you look across Google and Alphabet, the number of areas where we been able to build world-class products and achieve scale and success, we have over seven products which serve 1 billion users each, so I think our track record speaks there. And we generally want to create the culture of innovation, and that's what we focus on. And I think it's very fine that some of them happen outside, so we don't view it as a zero-sum game, and we're very comfortable with how we approach it.

RUTH PORAT: And then in terms of the margin trends, so overall operating margins year on year are up modestly on both the GAAP and non-GAAP basis, and that primarily reflects trends in Other Bets. I think your question was probably more within Google, the operating margin on a non-GAAP basis is down modestly year on year, that's primarily to other cost of sales, as distinct from TAC. The Google GAAP operating margins year on year and quarter on quarter do reflect the impact of the equity refresh that we called out last quarter, that I talked about.

I think one of the core things to your question is just as how we are looking at it, and our view continues to be that given the breadth of opportunities, and our commitment to long-term revenue growth, as we have talked about quarter after quarter, we do remain committed to investing in this growing set of opportunities, and we spend a lot of time trying to manage that revenue growth, and as I've said, manage expense growth with this -- the utmost respect for the resources deployed, and getting the best return on those resources.

So there are number of different factors in here. I think I mentioned one of the things as you're looking forward was the sales and marketing. And just to make another point, which I said in my opening comments, we do expect ongoing gross margin pressure from higher TAC in association with mobile search and with programmatic. That does still result in more revenue and gross profit dollars, but at a lower margin, and that's the other really important point, our starting point. We are continuing to invest, and we will point you to the revenue and gross profit dollars that come from that.

OPERATOR: Mark Mahaney, RBC Capital Markets.

MARK MAHANEY, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: With Google Home and the Pixel phones, are you rethinking at all your go-to-market strategy in terms of distribution and marketing Google over the years, put out different hardware products. Have there been learnings from that, that make you approach those two particular areas in Google Home and the Pixel phone line up differently? Thank you.

SUNDAR PICHAI: Thanks, Mark. And as you point out, we've done hardware products all over the years. But we saw an opportunity to bring all our display hardware progress together in a thoughtful structure. I'm glad Rick is here, and we been very focused on how we approach everything end to end, so that we can bring together software and hardware for a great user experience. So along those lines, both Google Home in Google Pixel are important new efforts for us, and I think we will thoughtfully evolve our go-to-market strategy, as well. These are important areas, and you already see with the Google Pixel, we have a deep partnership with Verizon, with which are going to market in the US. And so we're constantly thinking about how to do this well, and you'll see new approaches as we go through it more.

OPERATOR: Douglas Anmuth, JPMorgan.

DOUGLAS ANMUTH, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Sundar, you talked a lot about products across advertising and hardware. I think one thing we did not about was Maps, and you've talked about it in the past as 1 billion plus users and pretty massive engagement. So can you talk a little bit more about the monetization strategy here, and how you can really sell more advertising here, but also preserve the user experience at the same time? And maybe talk about the time frame that we could see more here? Thanks.

SUNDAR PICHAI: That's a good question. Today, a big part of what you are seeing with our transition to mobile that's working really well, the reason mobile search and mobile monetization works really well for us is because a lot of it is inherently local by nature. And the thing which -- that helps us deliver a great local search experience is Maps, and so that's the direction we've always pointed in. We want it to be a great experience for consumers as Google Maps, but in terms of also really enhancing the local search experience. And I think you'll continue to see us pursue it that way, and over time to the extent there are opportunities to create value within the application itself, we will pursue that as well.

OPERATOR: Peter Stabler, Wells Fargo Securities.

PETER STABLER, ANALYST, WELLS FARGO SECURITIES: I wanted to ask one about Voice. Sundar, you have talked about the success you've had in improving your natural language recognition, and we know that Voice queries are growing quickly. Wondering if you could share your thoughts on how the increase in Voice queries may or may not impact monetization going forward. Is it a risk, or is the growth of voice queries much more skewed to less commercial activity? Just any thoughts there. Thanks so much.

SUNDAR PICHAI: Thanks, Peter. From my standpoint, I look at it as, and if you look back in time, all this is -- computing is becoming more important to people, so they are engaging with it more and more. So as we went from desktops to mobile, it's not like one replaced the other. The sum total of all of this, it expanded the pie. I approach this the same way, I think, as I see people using Voice, et cetera. They are interacting more with computing and with Google, too. So we view this as providing us more access across many different surfaces, many different contexts, being there for them when they need it. So in that view, I think it will all be a positive for us going forward.

OPERATOR: Brian Nowak, Morgan Stanley.

BRIAN NOWAK, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Thanks for taking my question. Just to just to go back to the voice search question, Sundar, could you talk about if we do continue to migrate toward a world of voice search, could you just talk about infrastructure? Potential building that you need to put in place to continue to monetize search in a voice world, as well as you do in a phone or a desktop world. Secondly, could you talk a little bit about where you are in the role of extended text ads? I know you talked about a 20% bump to click-through rates. Just curious for where you are now? A push out, and is there any update on the click-throughs? Thanks.

SUNDAR PICHAI: On the first question, I think I briefly answered it before. In terms of we're thinking about the Voice experience deeply end to end. A lot of it is going, because of how we are approaching our core investments, both from a software and hardware standpoint, so we leverage it all to make it better. So for example, even things like TPUs, which we talked about of Google I/O, played a role into something like Voice search you're talking about.

And as we evolve the Google Assistant, I think Voice is going to play a major role that way as well. So we are in very early days of all of this, in relation to our overall volumes we see, and so I think we will be thoughtful about it. For example, the Assistant team talked about conversational actions as a way by which we can integrate third parties into the voice experience. So it's early days, and I think we will evolve a lot in the coming years.

In terms of your second question around expanded text ads, I would say, again it's early. It's been adopted by advertisers across the board. We see both large and small advertisers using it, for us, we find advertisers who actually spend their time being thoughtful about the ad creatives and extensively testing and optimizing for this new format, they find strong performance. So we're pleased with the progress so far, but the transition is going to take some time, as advertisers get comfortable with it. But we are excited about it.

OPERATOR: Anthony DiClemente, Nomura.

ANTHONY DICLEMENTE, ANALYST, NOMURA SECURITIES: First one, for Ruth, heading into this quarter's results, you had called out the ad format change in the third quarter of last year, which had driven a step up in the year-ago growth rate. I wonder, is there anything specific on the revenue side that you'd like to call out in terms of comparisons versus the fourth quarter of last year, as we try to calibrate our revenue expectations for the fourth quarter, either in terms of mobile search, YouTube, or AdTech programmatic?

And then my second question is either for Ruth or Sundar, could you talk about the decision to pause efforts for Google Fiber? Wondering, was that decision more about financial discipline as you, I think, explained, Ruth, in your prepared remarks for the Other Bets. Or is it more has to do with the shift to wireless Internet technology or point-to-point wireless which ultimately can take the place of a Fiber or facilities-based infrastructure over time? Thank you.

RUTH PORAT: Okay, great. Two good questions. So in terms of sites revenue, we are very pleased by the strength. It was broad-based. It had two real drivers.

First, the ongoing our ongoing focus on improving the experience for advertisers and users. And we introduced a number of enhancements including format changes and ad totals. I think the most important point is that no one enhancement came close to the magnitude of the changes that we made the third quarter of last year. That's why we kept calling out the 2015 change. And what's been gratifying is, in the aggregate, the results reflect the benefit of ongoing innovation, but very importantly, it wasn't one particular item.

The second contributor is the secular shift to mobile, and we continue to benefit from that, be an important part of enhancing opportunities for engagement. As we look forward to the fourth quarter, I think that was part of your question, as well. I think the only thing to point out is that in looking at growth rates, we're obviously at a revenue growth base versus last year, so just that to us is an important point to -- maybe obvious, but important to note there.

In terms of Fiber, the impetus for it was really about the opportunities that we see to focus on innovation, and what is does that mean if the objective with Other Bets is really these 10X opportunities. And when you go back to the initial impetus for creating the business, it was the Founders' view that there's a sizable opportunity, given the need for abundant connectivity on networks that are always fast and always open, and we do continue to be committed to that vision.

The team had some important breakthroughs in new technologies. You noted the most important in our view, all that we are doing with wireless, but also technologies that are key to implementation. And we believe that both of those, a number of things that are doing to enhance both our effectiveness and efficiency. And so we wanted to focus on the potential with these efforts before we reaccelerate deployment, and it was about being -- ensuring that we can take advantage of those, before again pushing forth.

We are very active in a lot of cities. In the third quarter alone, we rolled out four new cities, so that brings us to 12 cities across the US, where we are deployed, in construction, or in development. And we're making great progress in those cities.

We remain very committed to growth across those cities, and then we also have a presence in six cities with our wireless acquisition, Webpass. So we're pausing for now our work in eight cities, where we've been an exploratory discussions, but very much to your question, it's to better integrate some of the technology work we've been developing, and there's more detail in cities on the Fiber side to the extent you want to go into those.

OPERATOR: Stephen Ju, Credit Suisse.

STEPHEN JU, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: So Sundar, it seems like from the outside looking in, the pace of product development and release seems to have accelerated, while at the same time, it seems like you're getting efficiencies with the assets you're deploying to run your business, as your CapEx growth is moderating. So I'm wondering what concrete steps you may have taken to increase productivity, or focus of the Company, and what you're doing now to continue to drive those gains going forward? And separately, as you called out earlier, you are shipping an unprecedented amount of hardware devices. So as you think about what your product portfolio might look like over the next five years or even the next decade, does the Pixel phone mark a change in direction for Google to become maybe more of an integrated software and hardware company? Thanks.

SUNDAR PICHAI: Thanks, Stephen. On the first thing, I would say, we are very focused on our core mission, and we see a huge opportunity to do that in a unique way, thanks to what we view as a point of inflection with machine learning, so refocusing the Company on a set of initiatives, recognizing that point of inflection, is what has helped us really focus on things. And things like the Google Assistant are a manifestation of that, and you will see us continue to stay focused, and innovate that way.

In terms of hardware, I think in our vision, computing is becoming more and more integral. It's going to be there for users in many different contexts, and so to really think and evolve it, you need to think about software and hardware together. That's where a lot of innovations happen, and so for us to push the paradigm, push the boundary, we're very committed to doing that.

So it's a thoughtful effort from us, but overall, as I said in my remarks, we deeply remain committed to building an open ecosystem, because at the end of the day, we want Google to be there for every user, everywhere, and to do that well, we want to work with partners, and build a great ecosystem to make it happen.

RUTH PORAT: And just to add a bit more to Sundar's first answer, first response to your question about efficiency, as it is expressed through CapEx spend, I think it's probably helpful to add, the pace of spend reflects the ongoing success of the team, deriving meaningful efficiencies in planning and operations for our technical infrastructure. And that's enabled us to support growing demand, but at the stable investment level.

We have talked about that on prior calls as well. But I think we're proud of what they've been doing there. Some examples of efficiencies include improvement in server utilization, and the use of machine learning that Sundar has talked about, and the deployment of innovations like our sensor processing units that he has commented. So the main thing is we're building greater productivity with existing machines, and what's important to note is that's not only good for Google products generally, but it's also valuable to our Cloud offering for our enterprise customers.

OPERATOR: Ken Sena, Evercore ISI.

KEN SENA, ANALYST, EVERCORE ISI: Sundar, you mentioned a point of inflection within machine learning. Can you talk about more about the trade-offs in the productization and sale of that inflection through Google Cloud versus leveraging that innovation yourself through Google Assistant? And maybe for Ruth, just any thoughts on potential future disclosures around the Cloud business? That would be great. Thank you.

SUNDAR PICHAI: On the first one, I think we are, this is -- it's a big platform shift, and it has to be available for everyone. So we've always, just like we've done with things like Android, when we see platform shifts, we provide Android to everyone, so that's the way we think about Google Cloud. We want to make sure that this -- that all these new capabilities for machine learning and AI are available through Google Cloud to all our partners. We don't see it as a zero-sum game. I think internally, core to our mission, we see areas where we can execute, and we will continue to do that, but we want to do both, and we can do it thoughtfully well.

RUTH PORAT: And then on your second question, we constantly look to assess if or when additional data makes sense, given specific performances. And we went through the third-quarter results, that was -- has been our intent with all of the color commentary. On Cloud, the other thing to add is that the largest percentage growth year on year in our other revenue line, and actually even across all of our revenue lines, was in our Google Cloud platform, and that reflects the significant momentum in compute and storage.

OPERATOR: Justin Post, Merrill Lynch.

JUSTIN POST, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Sundar, I apologize if I missed it, but can you talk about machine learning in search, and how much it's making a difference over the last few quarters, and how much you still have to go? How important that is to the revenues? And then Ruth, a couple of questions. Any thoughts on whether hardware sales can make a difference to margins going forward? And also on the stock-based comp, how Google thinks about that expense internally? Thank you.

SUNDAR PICHAI: On machine learning, in areas us like Search, and even ads, on Search, we have had an effort called RankBrain, which is bringing Google Brain in the context of Search, and we've made great progress on it, but I would still, I would characterize as very early stages in terms of the long-term impact we can have. Generally, and similarly, we are in very, very early stages of incorporating machine learning, the newer machine learning systems and ads, and again, that's the beginning of a long journey as well. Overall, I think all of these systems are incredibly complex systems, and they are handcrafted systems over many, many years. And so over time, I think machine learning will surface newer approaches and newer insights, and so we see it as a huge area of opportunity, but it will play out over a period of time.

RUTH PORAT: And then in terms of the hardware family, I think Sundar has given a lot of color on that. It's still early days with the roll out of some these newer lines that we're super excited about, and so early, to make a call on that, but certainly investing meaningfully in the line, given the importance we see in this. And then in terms of stock-based compensation, we've always said we would remain focused on long-term revenue growth, and that does require investing in talent, and we do believe equity ownership is a really valuable art of overall compensation, consistent with alignment of interests. It's something we keep an eye on, and we're mindful of the full cost of equity based compensation, and certainly look at that as part of the overall cost that we're investing in, in and across the businesses.

OPERATOR: Dan Salmon, BMO Capital Markets.

DAN SALMON, ANALYST, BMO CAPITAL MARKETS: Sundar, last month, Google was part of the founding group, the partnership for the AI, and I was just curious to hear your thoughts on what your goals are for the group, and how you may take lessons back to your leadership at Google? Thanks.

SUNDAR PICHAI: Look, I think, I'm very glad to see the group come together. We are in extraordinarily early days for AI, and it's super important that we approach it thoughtfully as an industry. I am encouraged to see the commitment across these companies. Our goal is to promote open collaboration, help the public understand AI, and establish best practices in R&D.

Without something like this, we think ideas would develop in silos, and so I think it's good to do this to promote an informed dialogue on the AI. And so I'm pretty excited all along, just like the TensorFlow, where we are doing this in an open way, and all the other things we have done at Google. I think it's important as we work on new technology to contribute and to give back. And so in that context, I think all of this is personally very meaningful to me.

OPERATOR: Thank you. That concludes our question-and-answer session for today. I'd like to turn the conference back over to Ellen West for any further remarks.

ELLEN WEST: Thanks to everyone for joining us today. We look forward to speaking with you again on our fourth-quarter 2016 call. Thank you, and have a good day.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for participating in today's conference. This does conclude the program, and you may all disconnect. Everyone, have a great day.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
goog : Alphabet Inc.
   IN
iappsp : Cloud Computing | i8394 : Computer Services | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | i8396 : Diversified Holding Companies
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Financial Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | uk : United Kingdom | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020161028ecar009yd
  


 HD
 Q2  2016 Alphabet Inc Earnings Call - Final
   WC
9,646 words
   PD
28 July 2016
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©016 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved. 

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Alphabet Q2 2016 earnings conference call.

   TD
(Operator Instructions)

As a reminder, today's conference call is being recorded. I would now turn the conference over to Ellen West, Head of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.

ELLEN WEST, HEAD OF IR, ALPHABET INC.: Thank you. Good afternoon, everyone, and welcome to Alphabet's second-quarter 2016 earnings conference call. With us today are Ruth Porat and Sundar Pichai. While you've been waiting for the call to start, you've been listening to Aurora, an incredible new artist from Norway, who is finding a rapidly growing audience on YouTube all over the world.

Now I'll quickly cover the Safe Harbor. Some of the statements that we make today may be considered forward looking, including statements regarding our future investments, our long-term growth and innovation, the expected performance of our businesses, and our expected level of capital expenditures. These statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially.

For more information, please refer to the risk factors discussed in our Form 10-K for 2015 filed with the SEC. Any forward-looking statements that we make are based on assumptions as of today, and we undertake no obligation to update them.

During this call, we will present both GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures. A reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP measures is included in today's earnings press release. As, we distribute our earnings release through our Investor Relations website located at ABC.XYZ/investor. This is call is also being webcast from our IR website where a replay of the call will be available later today. And now I'll turn the call over to Ruth.

RUTH PORAT, CFO, ALPHABET INC.: Thanks, Ellen. Our revenue of $21.5 billion in the second quarter underscores the great performance of our businesses globally. For the quarter, our consolidated revenue grew 25% in constant currency versus last year.

Once again, the primary driver was the increased use of mobile search by consumers, benefiting from our ongoing efforts to enhance the mobile search experience. We also benefited from solid growth in desktop and tablet search, as well as continued strength in YouTube and programmatic advertising.

I'm going to present to you in the following order: first, review the quarter on a consolidated basis for Alphabet. Second, review the results for each of Google and Other Bets. Finally, I will conclude with our outlook. Sundar will then review our business and product highlights for the quarter, after which we will take your questions.

Beginning with the summary of Alphabet's consolidated financial performance. Total revenue was $21.5 billion, up 21% year over year, and up 6% sequentially. We realized a negative currency impact on our revenues year over year of $113 million, or $35 million after the benefit of our hedging program. Holding currency constant to prior periods, our total revenue grew 25% year over year and increased 5% sequentially.

Once again, Alphabet revenues by geography highlight both the strength of our business around the globe, as well as the impact the currency headwinds continue to have on our non-US business relative to last year. US revenue was up 25% year over year to $10 billion. UK revenue was up 14% year over year to $1.9 billion.

In fixed FX terms, the UK grew 20% year over year. These results do not reflect the movement in the British pound subsequent to the results on the referendum on June 23rd. Rest-of-world revenue was up 19% versus last year to $9.6 billion. In fixed FX terms, revenues were up 26% year over year. GAAP other cost of revenues were $4.2 billion. Non-GAAP other cost of revenues, was $3.9 billion, up 28% year over year, primarily driven by Google-related expenses. Specifically, costs associated with operating our data centers, including depreciation; content acquisition costs primarily for YouTube; and hardware costs.

GAAP operating expenses were $7.4 billion in the quarter. Non-GAAP operating expenses were $6.2 billion, or 29% of revenue, up 15% year over year and up 2% versus Q1. The year-over-year growth was primarily driven by R&D expense mainly due to compensation expense related to head count growth.

On a GAAP basis, operating income was $6 billion, up 24% versus last year. The operating margin was 28%. Non-GAAP operating income was $7.5 billion, up 25% versus last year. The operating margin was 35%. Stock-based compensation totalled $1.5 billion, up 33% year over year and up 1% sequentially, primarily reflecting increased head count and the impact of our senior executive equity refresh that occurs every two years.

Head count at the end of the quarter was 66,575, up 2,460 from last quarter. The vast majority of new hires continue to be engineers and product managers to support growth in priority areas such as cloud and apps. On a numbers basis, we are adding more head count in Google, while on a percentage basis, we are growing faster in Other Bets.

Other income and expense was $151 million. As discussed on prior calls, OI&E consists of a number of line items impacted by market factors which makes it inherently unpredictable. We provide more detail on these line items in our earnings press release. Our effective tax rate was 20%. Net income was $4.9 billion on a GAAP and $5.9 billion on a non-GAAP basis. Earnings per diluted share were $7 on a GAAP basis and $8.42 on non-GAAP basis.

Turning now to CapEx and operating cash flow. CapEx for the quarter was $2.1 billion, the substantial majority of which supported the Google segment. Operating cash flow was $9.1 billion, with free cash flow of $7 billion.

We ended the quarter with cash and marketable securities of $78.5 billion, of which approximately $48 billion, or 61% is held overseas. This performance reflects our strong operating cash flow, offset by the impact of our share repurchases during the quarter of approximately $1.6 billion, completing the authorization under our share repurchase program.

Let me now turn to our segment financial results. Starting with the Google segment, revenue was $21.3 billion, up 21% year over year, which includes the impact of FX. In terms of the revenue detail, Google sites revenue was $15.4 billion in the quarter, up 24% year over year and up 7% sequentially. Year-on-year growth reflects substantial strength in mobile search due to the ongoing benefit in improvement in ad formats and delivery that we launched in the third quarter of last year. We continue to have solid growth from desktop and tablet search.

YouTube revenue continues to grow at a very significant rate, driven primarily by video advertising across TrueView, and increasingly, Google Preferred, with a growing contribution from buying on DoubleClick Bid Manager. Network revenue was $3.7 billion, up 3% year on year, and up 1% sequentially, continuing to reflect the strong growth of programmatic offset by the traditional network businesses.

Other revenue for Google was $2.2 billion, up 33% year over year and up 5% sequentially. Year-over-year growth was driven by cloud and apps as well as Play followed by hardware.

Finally, we continue to provide monetization metrics to give you a sense of the price and volume dynamics of our advertising businesses. You can find the details in our earnings press release. Let me remind you that these metrics are, of course, affected by currency movements.

Total traffic acquisition costs were $4 billion, or 21% of total advertising revenue, up 18% year over year and up 5% sequentially. Total TAC as a percentage of total advertising revenues was down slightly as a result of a mix shift between sites revenue, which carries lower TAC, and network revenue. The increase in both sites TAC as a percentage of sites revenue, as well as network TAC as a percentage of network revenue, reflects the fact that our strongest growth areas, namely mobile search and programmatic, carry higher TAC.

Operating income excluding SBC was $8.3 billion, up 26% versus last year, for an operating margin of 39%. Google stock-based compensation totaled $1.3 billion for the quarter, up 33% year over year. Operating income reflecting the impact of SBC was $7 billion up 25% versus last year and the operating margin was 33%. CapEx for the quarter was $2.1 billion, reflecting investments in production equipment, facilities, and data center construction.

Turning to Other Bets financials. Let me again emphasize that the majority of these efforts are pre-revenue. We continue to invest across these opportunities and are doing so in a disciplined way.

We think it remains most instructive to look at them over a longer-time horizon, because as you have seen, quarterly revenues and expenses can be lumpy for three primary reasons. First, they are early stage; second, they represent an aggregation of businesses operating in different industries; and, third, they may be impacted by one-time items like partnership deals.

For the second quarter, Other Bets revenue was $185 million. Reported revenue for Other Bets was primarily generated by Nest, Fiber and Verily. Operating loss excluding SPC was $709 million in the second quarter. Including the impact of SBC, operating loss was $859 million. Other Bets CapEx was $280 million in Q2, primarily reflecting ongoing investment in our Fiber business.

I'd like to close with a few observations on our key themes. First, regarding revenue. Our Alphabet structure announced nearly a year ago gives us a framework for developing new sources of revenue growth within both Google and in Other Bets in a disciplined way.

You have seen over the past few quarters how our focus on innovation can drive strong revenue growth. We're continually working to enhance the search experience and making changes to our ads formats and tools, guided by substantial user testing.

We have repeatedly highlighted the 3Q 2015 change in format given the meaningful step-up it drove in our revenue growth rate. That benefit is evident again in the second quarter. As we have always said, we have been and remain committed to long-term revenue growth through innovation, but the timing and scale of the impact of innovation is inherently difficult to predict.

Second, as to expenses, I've commented many times that our focus on long-term revenue growth does not give us a pass on managing expenses. We invest a lot of time and effort in assessing how to manage for revenue growth, with the utmost respect for the resources deployed and a focus on getting the best return on those resources, recognizing that in some areas secular trends are creating margin headwinds.

As I mentioned last quarter, there are a number of factors driving higher TAC in both our sites and network businesses. For sites TAC, there are a number of factors that contribute to fluctuations, in particular, changes in the relative use of mobile, desktop, and tablet devices. For each of these devices, sites TAC also reflects and inter-related set of factors, including the mix of paid versus organic distribution points, partners, and agreement terms. Over the past year, the shift to mobile has been the primary driver of the increase in sites TAC, because more mobile searches are subject to TAC.

When looking at sites TAC as a percentage of revenue, it is important also to remember that while YouTube advertising revenue is reflected in our sites line, the associated content acquisition costs are included in other cost of revenues, not TAC. In addition, sites revenue includes hedging gains with no associated effect on TAC. The growth in network TAC is due to the ongoing adoption of programmatic platforms by advertisers, which are subject to a higher TAC rate.

In operating expenses people are our biggest area of investment. We continue to attract, develop, and retain the best people to drive our businesses forward. As you would expect, head count additions primarily align with our priority areas, such as cloud and apps and machine learning.

Two important points regarding the third quarter. First, you will see the impact in the third quarter of our annual equity refresh for our employees. As you have seen in prior years, the annual refresh results in a sequential step-up in SBC.

Second, headcount growth tends to be seasonally high in Q3 because that is when we bring on new graduates. In addition, please keep in mind that our marketing costs are typically weighted more heavily toward the back half of the year due to the holiday season.

Third, regarding CapEx. At Google, the team has been able to drive meaningful efficiencies in planning and operations for our technical infrastructure, which has enabled us to support growing demand at a stable investment level. These efficiencies include improvements in power and server utilization, the use of machine learning and deployment of innovations like our tensor processing unit. With regard to CapEx investments for Other Bets, our Fiber investment continues to be the driver.

Fourth, about our balance sheet. We remain focused on optimizing our capital structure, recognizing the strategic value of our balance sheet. We completed Alphabet's $1.7 billion debt exchange in the second quarter, which gives us flexibility, including the ability to using debt financing if appropriate. In light of the interest rate environment, we may opportunistically access the market to term out our commercial paper.

In conclusion, in the second quarter, we delivered very strong revenue growth and improved operating efficiency. These results reflect the tremendous talent and hard work of our teams around the globe. I will now turn the call over to Sundar.

SUNDAR PICHAI, CEO, ALPHABET INC.: Thanks, Ruth. As you heard, we had a very strong second quarter. There is an amazing energy right now with Google. The strength of the quarter is about mobile. It's transformed the way that people consume information, and Google's products have become essential and much-loved part of their experience.

Our investment in mobile now underlines everything that we do today, from search and YouTube to Android and advertising. Mobile is the engine that drives a person. And now through our deep investments in machine learning and AI, we are building the engine that will drive our future.

Since the last earnings call, we had Google IO, our biggest event of the year, and I also wrote our annual founder's letter. Both of these allowed me to reflect on our past and look to our future.

We are at a pivotal and transformational moment. Thanks to advancements in machine learning, we have the unique opportunity to take a big step forward for the next 10 years.

In the letter, I wrote about how we think of our investments and our mission. Today, I'll walk through the six sections of the founder's letter and discuss our progress in each area, and then I'll call out three key highlights from the quarter that are driving our advertising business today and into the future.

The first thing I highlighted in the founder's letter was information. At Google's core, we remain focused on making information and knowledge available for everyone. This, of course, starts with search where we now have trillions of searches every year.

We continue to invest in making search smarter and more useful. In the US, we recently introduced a voter tool so when you search for register to vote, you'll get a detailed state-by-state guide with information on how to register, requirements, and deadlines.

Our new keyboard for iOS called Gboard is off to a great start. People love the ability to easily search right from the keyboard, swipe to type, and quickly send emojis. After just one year Google Photos is now helping over 200 million people every month organize and search their photos and memories.

At IO, I was excited to share our vision around the Google Assistant. We want to help people get things done in a conversational way across devices and context. This is possible thanks to advances in machine learning, voice and image recognition, and natural language processing, which we have invested in for years. You will be able to experience the Google Assistant in products like our new messaging app, Allo, and our voice-activated device Google Home. And we can't wait to show you what else we are working on in this area.

Second, machine learning. As I said, machine learning is the engine that will drive our future, and it's already making our products better and helping users every day. In fact, more than 100 teams are currently using machine learning at Google, from Street View to Gmail to voice search and more.

For example, in search, we use a ranking signal called RankBrain, which relies on deep learning to improve results. It's already enhancing the search experience in 40 languages, and based on user testing, RankBrain can accurately guess which results users will favor with about 80% accuracy. Advances like this help us make our search results even more relevant.

Machine learning is also creating an impact in other ways. Just last week, we announced a test that applied DeepMind's machine learning to our own Google data centers, resulting in up to a 40% reduction in the energy we use for [cooling] This will greatly improve efficiency, and when we publish our research, we hope it will enable others to reduce emissions, too.

Third, content. A big part of making information available is making great content accessible, such as on Google Play, YouTube, and the web. Our efforts to make the mobile web better for everyone with accelerated mobile pages, or AMP, has seen phenomenal global momentum. We now have over 150 million AMP pages in our index, and with over 4 million new ones published every week from nearly 200 countries.

Last week, we announced AMP for Ads, which helps advertisers build fast, simple, and beautiful ads and landing pages. This will help make the mobile web experience much faster for everyone and help fund it more sustainably.

Video is a huge component of digital content and YouTube continues to shine. It's a thriving home for creators, with more than 1,000 creators crossing the thousand subscribers' mark every single day. Our content ID system has now paid out over $2 billion to partners who use the system.

A big part of video, of course, is live, which we have invested in since 2011. YouTube is the first major platform that supports live content in 360 degrees, and we recently announced the ability for creators to go live from their phones with a touch of a button.

Earlier in the quarter, we teamed up with BT to live stream the Champions League on Europa League finals on YouTube in the UK. This special event was the UK's biggest ever live stream. All these innovations had a big reason why partner revenue has averaged 50% growth over the last three years.

Fourth, platforms. A key focus is building great computing promise like Chrome, Android, and our new virtual-reality platform Daydream, so that people can have wonderful experiences regardless of the device or screen they are using. Platforms are what make new computing experiences possible, and also power breakout hits like Pokemon Go, which I suspect a few of you are playing right now.

Android is thriving. In the last year alone, we have delivered over 65 billion app installs and are helping developers reach an audience of over 1 billion users every single month.

Our partners are also seeing incredible success with flagship devices like the Samsung Galaxy S7. It's a hit with consumers and a shining example of how to build a great experience on Android.

Our latest version of Android, called Nougat, focuses on performance, productivity, and security, and it also has a VR mode built in to help developers create immersive smartphone VR experiences. Speaking of VR, we are already working with leading Android partners to build out the Daydream ecosystem, so stay tuned for more Daydream-ready phones, controllers, and headsets coming this fall.

Fifth, the cloud. Many tremendous digital experiences are being built in the cloud today, and businesses are working to take advantage of the cloud as part of their digital transformation. We have been integrating our cloud and app start-ups to create more unified solutions for companies large and small, and these efforts are paying off.

We have strong momentum with businesses like Symphony, a secure communication and work-flow platform who recently announced that its cloud computing business is available on the Google cloud platform. We provide the high reliability and performance needed by Symphony's customers in the financial services industry.

Our data analytics product, BigQuery, helps mobile gaming company, Kabam, store and understand player actions within their games, from monetization and fraud to production bugs and level completion statistics. As I've said, machine learning has been a major focus and a key differentiator for Google, and that's true for our Google cloud customers as well.

This quarter, we introduced tensor processing units, or TPUs, which can deliver an order of magnitude better-optimized performance per watt for machine-learning projects. Google DeepMind's AlphaGo was powered by TPUs, enabling it to process faster and look farther ahead between moves. We are now passing this benefit on to our enterprise customers to supercharge their machine-learning applications.

Just last week we introduced two cloud machine-learning APIs for speech and natural language to help our enterprise customers convert audio to text and easily understand the structure and sentiment of the text in a variety of languages.

We also introduced a new undersea cable system, the highest capacity system ever built, which brings added capacity and performance to support our enterprise customers around the globe. This system has 60 terabytes per second of total capacity, more than any active undersea cable, and is 10 million times faster than your cable modem. This is especially exciting as we prepare to launch a new Google cloud platform East Asia region in Tokyo later this year.

In addition to building the best products and infrastructure, we are also hard at work building the best team to serve every aspect of our customers' businesses. We now have key leadership in place and centralized teams supporting customer-facing activities including, sales, marketing, global alliances, industry solutions, and professional services. We are building out our supported full-scale, as more and more Fortune 100 companies choose our cloud.

Sixth, building for everyone. Since the internet is one of the world's most powerful equalizers, we are committed to building technology and making information available for everyone, wherever they are. This has always been core to Google's DNA.

As we have shared before, we are working with Indian railways and RailTel to bring high-speed wireless access to the entire internet to millions of people who travel throughout India's stop railway stations. There are already 2 million people logging in every month, and they are using as much as 15 times the data they would otherwise use in a full day on their cellular networks.

We are also working hard to ensure that our products work well for everyone, regardless of where they live. We have been expanding better carrier billing in Google Play, with more than 100 partners in 40 countries. To give you a sense of the impact, in Indonesia alone, we have seen growth in monthly buyers quadruple in the last 18 months.

Switching gears from these six areas, it is our business success that enables us and our partners to grow and invest further. We are extraordinarily well positioned to take advantage of the mobile shift, and we are already seen strong growth in three key areas of our advertising business: mobile search, video, and programmatic. All of the momentum you're seeing is because our products are doing well in mobile and our customers are getting great results from them.

We offer advertisers and agencies the best ways to reach customers at the right moment of intent, the best reach in inventory, the best mobile formats, and the leading measurement solutions. Of course, we do all of this while making sure we are creating a great [ads] experience for users that is helpful and unobtrusive.

We know that people are constantly searching for things with commercial intent and are used to swiping and tapping. Our data shows that people respond really well to the ads we show. They are fresh, fast, and useful.

So let me turn to three key moments from the quarter for our advertising business. Number one, our Google Performance Summit for direct response marketers. We announced new expanded text ads and bit adjustments by device type, which are rolling out this week, as well as new local search ads in Google Maps.

Thanks to the rise in mobile phones, the line between online and offline experiences continues to blur. This creates even greater opportunity for businesses to use Google Maps to help bring customers into their physical store locations. Thanks to our strong intent signals, particularly on mobile, Google continues to offer great opportunities for direct response marketers to reach potential customers, whether they are visiting your website, calling your business, walking into your store, or downloading your app.

For instance, Walgreen's partnered closely with Google to promote their app across search, Google Play and our display networks. In one month, they increased the number of app downloads 87% from the previous month.

Number two, our annual Brandcast event for brand advertisers was a huge success. We announced Breakout Videos, the ability to advertise against fast-rising videos on YouTube; as well as a deal with the NBA to bring their inventory to Google Preferred.

As this point, the volume of Google Preferred bought this year is already more than double what it was at the same time last year. Fast-food chain Wendy's used Google Preferred to extend the reach of their TV ads, and thanks to our Brand Lift measurement solution, they were able to see that one of their campaigns drove an incredible 65% lift in ad recall and 146% lift in Google searches for the Wendy's brand. We are hearing a lot of the same feedback from many top brands who continue to invest more and more of their budgets on YouTube.

And number three our DoubleClick Leadership Summit held just last week for ad technology partners. We launched the ability to buy native ads programmatically across all screens in DoubleClick Bid Manager. [Since we're] providing fully designed creatives for each publisher, advertisers can simply upload the components of the ad, like headline, image and text, and double-click automatically a simples stamp to fit the context and format of the site or app where they appear.

Making native advertising simple at this scale will help to make ads faster, better, and less intrusive while driving great returns for publishers. So there's my top three moments from my advertising business this quarter. As you can see, it has been extremely busy.

More generally, from advertising to cloud to digital content to hardware and to so much more, we have tremendous long-term growth opportunities at Google. Today's great innovations are being driven by our investments in mobile; tomorrow's will be driven from our investments in machine learning and new computing platforms. But one thing is constant; we'll continue to focus on building the best experiences for billions of people around the world.

I want to thank all of the Googlers around the world who help us create these opportunities every day and help them bring to life for our users and partners. With that, I'll turn it back over to Ruth.

RUTH PORAT: Thank you, Sundar. We will now take your questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions)

Carlos Kirjner, Bernstein.

CARLOS KIRJNER, ANALYST, BERNSTEIN: Thank you. I have two questions. First, is about Search revenues. Search is probably a $50-billion business, and from today's results, it's clearly still growing strongly. Of course, if the business gets larger, it becomes harder and harder to sustain growth. As you look at this increasing growth challenge on your product innovations in Search, including recent changes and also those that you have in your road map for the next few years, how do you think about your ability to sustain such revenue growth and the trajectory for which they will ultimately accelerate?

The second questions is on Google Fiber. I think Ruth has been quite clear that we should expect an increasing Other Bets CapEx, and that Fiber is the main driver, suggesting more investment. Yet when we see the rate at which you have deployed in markets like Austin or some of the newer markets, they are quite slow.

You also have started to talk about wireless technologies, suggesting that you haven't fully figured this out yet, which in turn suggests that it's going to be slow to [climb]. So the question is, which one is it? Is it faster, more aggressive deployment given the CapEx commentary or is it going to be continued slow, multi-year deployment as your track record and the talk of new technologies suggest? Thank you.

RUTH PORAT: Thank you, Carlos, a lot in those questions. Starting with sites revenue and where we see the opportunities there, obviously, sites revenue up 24% year on year includes the currency impact. And as Sundar and I both commented on, the biggest driver again this quarter was mobile search. We do continue to have solid growth in desktop, tablet, we have strength in YouTube, particularly video advertising, both in our TrueView products and increasingly from Google Preferred.

As we've talked about every quarter since the third quarter of last year, we have benefited to the change to ad formats on mobile that we made in the third quarter of last year, and that is evident yet again this quarter.

And then as per your question, when we go back -- going back to that third quarter of 2015 when we made the change in ad formats on mobile, our growth rate meaningfully accelerated. And as we've noted in each subsequent quarter, that change has been the primary driver of the higher year-on-year revenue growth rate.

But importantly, as you've seen over the last several quarters, we're benefiting not just from the higher growth rate but also from the durability of the impact of the change. So that's really underscoring the efficacy of these ads for users, as per Sundar's comments, and it's reflected in revenues running at a higher level. And you can see where the revenue growth rate was prior to the third quarter introduction; I'll let you do your own forecasting. But when comparing growth rates, we're obviously at a higher revenue base versus last year.

And then Sundar talked about some of the recent events that we've had. Innovation is core to everything we're doing. We've launched several changes to ad formats and tools just a few days ago. As the team discussed at the Google Performance Summit, we believe the changes should result in a better, more useful experience for users and better performance for advertisers. And so that just continues to be core to the way we're looking at the business with a lot of incremental opportunity.

And then on your Fiber -- the Fiber and the CapEx question, look, we continue to see Fiber as a huge market opportunity. We're focused on creating abundant connectivity, networks that are always fast and always open, as we've talked about. And we're continuing to work closely with cities given their excitement. We're also looking to push the frontier with tech innovation, as you noted in your question, and different execution paths.

So, as you said in the question, we're exploring both Fiber and wireless and you may have seen our recent acquisition of WebPass. So we want to make sure we're executing against a very large and attractive market in the most effective and efficient manner. We did start adding customers in Charlotte in July, and so again, we view it as a big opportunity. We're being thoughtful and deliberate in our execution path.

OPERATOR: Thank you. Next question from Eric Sheridan, UBS.

ERIC SHERIDAN, ANALYST, UBS: Thank you for taking the questions. Maybe following up on Carlos's question on Search, and Ruth your answer. I wanted to go a little deeper on the retail and the travel verticals; it's two areas where we see a lot of innovation from the Company right now, both on the product side that consumers are seeing, as well as on the advertising side. How should we think about the road map ahead for both increased user engagement with your product in those key verticals, as well as ability for advertiser conversion to lead to more advertising budgets for the Company over the medium to long term?

And then maybe one second question would be, with the buy-back authorization having been completed this quarter, Ruth, would love to get your thoughts how you're thinking about the balance sheet as an asset and how shareholders should think about ability for shareholder returns over the medium and long term. Thank you so much.

RUTH PORAT: So why don't I start on your second question, then I'll pass it to Sundar on the first question. As you know, we announced the share repurchase program relatively recently, it was just in the third quarter of last year, and we just completed it, as per my opening comments. As we discussed back in the third quarter, we do always review our balance sheet and capital requirements and opportunities with our Board. And I'm not going to speculate about a potential for a future Board decision, so really nothing more to add at this point. And then, Sundar?

SUNDAR PICHAI: Look, we obviously think generally across all types of verticals, and you highlighted a couple of important verticals. To give an example on travel, many users start their travel inquiry on Google. And so we focus on doing a better job on getting them deeper information, new destinations and compare costs through new features in hotel search, Google flights, and the recently launched Destinations on Google.

In all of this we work closely with many different partners, including online travel agencies, and so we focus on product enhancements in partnership with them. The better job we do at answering user queries, the more qualified leads we can provide to our partners, and we think it's a win-win arrangement. And so, and the same concept applies to these other verticals as well, so we approach it very holistically.

OPERATOR: Heather Bellini, Goldman Sachs.

HEATHER BELLINI, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Thank you very much. Sundar, I was wondering, I know you gave us some color on the cloud business just a few moments ago in your prepared remarks. But I was wondering if you could share with us some of the changes, if you could highlight some of them that Diane had made since she's come on board. And I'm wondering how some of those changes might be starting to impact conversations with potential customers that you're having. And, in particular, just trying to get a sense of are you seeing Google now with GCP getting invited to more RFPs and starting to see your win rates go up as a result of some of her initiatives? Thank you.

SUNDAR PICHAI: Thanks, Heather. Absolutely, I think that Diane has initiated a set of changes, and essentially, she has integrated our go-to-market strategy with her engineering and product efforts. She has integrated our engineering efforts on the cloud. So for example, Google Apps, Drive, Docs, Gmail, Slides Sheets, Hangouts, et cetera, is on top of the cloud stack.

Our enterprise customers and partners, for them, now they have one enterprise [phase], and internally, from frictionless contracts to touch points across Google, to one person to work with them on our considerable enterprise technologies and products. So the big unifying one being cloud.

We now have new leadership in place across sales, professional services, marketing, and partnering, plus new customer-facing support in the form of professional services. We have an office of the CTO and customer reliability.

So it's a big set of changes, and it's obviously having an impact. Many of our customers are also partners, and so it's increasingly clear how much we can do together. So for me I see a shift to a world-class enterprise approach, and it's definitely having an impact on the type of conversations we are having and the outcome of the RFPs we are engaged in.

HEATHER BELLINI: Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Ross Sandler, Deutsche Bank.

ROSS SANDLER, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Sundar, I just had a question about machine learning. You spent a lot of time talking about how this is positively impacting Google as a whole and how you're building for the future, both tonight and at IO a few months ago. And you guys have mentioned things like reducing the error rates in search, and improving relevancy. But are there tangible examples of either engagement or volume also increasing as you roll out machine learning in search and in YouTube that you could share?

And then I think Google recently introduced Smart Bidding in AdWords using machine learning. So do you see something like this as a potential revenue driver? Any color there would be great. Thank you.

SUNDAR PICHAI: Yes, so we definitely -- a core part of improving the user experience for the next many years will be driven by machine learning. To give a specific example you asked about YouTube. YouTube watch time is something that we focus on. We use machine learning increasingly to give recommendations to users when they're watching a video in terms of what they could watch next. And that recommendation system is getting -- increasingly using machine learning, and that directly drives engagement. So there are several such examples I can give across the Company.

You mention AdWords, too. If you look at AdWords and thoughtful changes we do, over time, we are dealing with big [commentary] of space in terms of the kinds of changes and interactions that can happen. So deploying machine learning there over time, over many years I think is a more powerful and deeper way to explore the various possibilities that exist and I think will lead to long-term impacts. And so very optimistic on it.

OPERATOR: Douglas Anmuth, JPMorgan.

DOUGLAS ANMUTH, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Thank for taking the questions. I wanted to ask, too, first, Sundar, you talked about expanded text ads. And my question is just as the number of characters here increases, some would say up to 50% through expanded text ads, you're taking up more space on the page. How do you balance the higher percentage of clicks from these paid ads with the natural search experience?

Secondly, on YouTube, do you think you're taking share of TV dollars currently? And if not, what's needed to do that going forward? Thanks.

SUNDAR PICHAI: On the first one, we obviously, over many, many years we always put users first, and as we present our search results, we have long-term metrics for user happiness around which we make -- that's the framework for all of the changes we make. Obviously with the shift to mobile, the user experience -- users are evolving in terms of how they use our product. And with that as a guidance, we have made changes.

We make many, many changes,, and I would look at it holistically. And even some of the changes you're talking about affect certain highly commercial queries where users are actually looking for that commercial information. So the metrics is what drives how we change these things, and I'm being very, very thoughtful about it. But we always step back and make sure that overall load, et cetera, is really working for users. So I'm pretty comfortable with how we are approaching it.

On YouTube, I think about it as we are seeing strong growth. I mentioned the momentum behind Google Preferred and how we are double the rate we were last year. So to me, that implies strong growth. It's tough for us to assess from TV or just advertisers in listing more because [of this traction] in YouTube. But we just see strong momentum. And as far as today, just look at how users are using mobile, videos, the killer format on mobile, and I think that is what gives us the secular trend moving forward.

DOUGLAS ANMUTH: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Thank you. And our next question comes from Mark Mahaney, RBC Capital Markets.

MARK MAHANEY, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: I just want to ask one question. It has to do with mobile search and I want to throw an idea by you, which is we've been going through this mobile transition for four or five years. Consumers have, I think, dramatically led businesses and advertisers to mobile devices.

I'm wondering if what you're now seeing is finally, as e-commerce and travel and other commerce activities have really become critical material on mobile devices, you're finally starting to see ad budgets really shift over and you're starting to get option dynamics start pick up in mobile search. Could you just comment on whether you're finally seeing this back swing for advertisers to engage with mobile search in a way that you really hadn't seen before; it just took that many years for this to happen? Thanks.

SUNDAR PICHAI: I would, Mark, thanks for the question. I would say at a higher level, this is a scale business, and, you're right. As we have had this shift to mobile that our second [order effects, which] kick in too, which is why when you look at our ad improvements and our revenue improvements I would focus more holistically. We do deeper changes across the board, not just visible changes on the page, and all of that contributes to it. So I do definitely think it has to shift to mobile [accelerates], we are getting some scale benefits and that is part of it.

OPERATOR: Dan Salmon, BMO.

DAN SALMON, ANALYST, BMO CAPITAL MARKETS: Good afternoon, everyone. Sundar, I was wondering if you could spend a little time talking about the launch of the My Activity site, which I think is an update to the controls that your users have over the use of their data. And, in particular, I would be interested to hear about the option to opt into greater personalization of ads from across usership on Google sites. As I believe that's the first time you've allowed on an opt-in basis certainly, to have search data be used to target ads elsewhere.

And then maybe as a follow-up to that what you're seeing in terms of early traction of users turning that on and where your expectations for that may be.

SUNDAR PICHAI: Look, we're very focused on giving users better controls, and so we wanted to give users a single place to see and control ad setting. And that will be [honored] as the user moves across devices. It's completely opt-in; users are absolutely in control. And consumers and advertisers have come to expect the ads to work better across devices, and this new option could help us better deliver on that.

For people who choose to opt in over time, we could make sure they see more relevant ads and fewer annoying ones, so effectively put them in better control of the experience they get. And so I think that helps the whole ecosystem work better. We are in very, very early days and -- but we're thoughtful about how we do this for users.

DAN SALMON: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Colin Sebastian, Robert Baird.

COLIN SEBASTIAN, ANALYST, ROBERT W. BAIRD & CO.: Great, thanks. Two quick questions. First off, we understand that Google Shopping in particular continues to see strong growth, and I was hoping you could add color on relative mix or growth rates of PLA contrasting with other ad types, along with the adoption of the transactional capabilities.

And then, Sundar, I wanted to follow up on some of the conversational and voice applications and devices that you have in the pipeline. And more generally, how you envision voice really fitting in across the board, across the Google platform. Will this be a centerpiece as you also utilize machine learning, artificial intelligence? I'd like to hear more about your vision for that. Thank you.

SUNDAR PICHAI: Let me, quickly on the first one, we don't comment on the relative mix, et cetera, so I'll probably give more color on your second question. Voice is obviously very, very exciting for us. I mentioned this at IO, if you look at the Android, the Google app on Android in the US, 20% of the queries are voice queries.

Today, in terms of evolving to a conversational assistant, we have a big head start, people do this. We get millions of queries every single day, and it's incredibly exciting to see how people interact with voice differently from text. It's more intuitive, it's more personal, and it's a bit more emotional and engaging experience for users.

And so, I think to do this well requires deep computer science, understanding what they are saying, the natural language processing involved. These are areas in which we have now been working for over 15 years, and we believe we are the best in class. Bringing all of that together I think is what will help us do this at scale globally.

But it's still very early days in terms of getting the conversational assistant right. You will see us launch this throughout products as we go through the second half of this year, and I am excited to see how users respond to it.

COLIN SEBASTIAN: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Anthony DiClemente, Nomura.

ANTHONY DICLEMENTE, ANALYST, NOMURA: Thanks for taking my questions. I have one for Sundar and one for Ruth. Sundar, in terms of messaging, you mentioned Allo, your mobile messaging product, and Duo, which is a -- your video messaging product. Why is it important that Google is competitive in mobile messaging, and what gives you the confidence that you could take market share from the other players in the messaging space?

And then, Ruth, in terms of the driver of YouTube growth, you mentioned in your prepared remarks that one of the drivers was buying on DoubleClick Bid Manager. I just want to maybe hear a little bit more about that. Why has that been so successful recently and do you look at that as an incremental, forward driver of YouTube growth? Thank you.

SUNDAR PICHAI: On your first question, I think messaging is obviously an important area. We approach these areas, if you believe we have insights by which we can create something very differentiated for users, that they're actually approaching it in a new and unique way. The core underlying insight we have is in the context of mobile and using a state-of-the-art machine learning, can we rethink some of these areas for our users?

That's the underlying framework with which we've approached this space. I've been really enjoying using these products, and we'll get it out to users soon. For example, I think if you take something like Duo today, I think especially on Android, high quality messaging is an experience that's still lacking for users. So we clearly see an opportunity there. And it's at the core of our mission, bringing informational experiences to users. And so that's why we are investing and we are optimistic about the space.

RUTH PORAT: And I think the -- and the other part of your question, I think the key point is we've been talking about programmatic for quite some time. We're just seeing strong momentum across the board and continue to benefit from that.

ANTHONY DICLEMENTE: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Ben Schachter, Macquarie.

BEN SCHACHTER, ANALYST, MACQUARIE RESEARCH: Sundar, can you broadly discuss the Google hardware strategy and perhaps some of the lessons learned from previous Google hardware launches? And then relatedly, can you discuss a little bit about how you're thinking about auto strategy? Do you build your own vehicles, license technology? How do you determine which direction to take there and how long until we might see any auto-related revenue? Thanks.

SUNDAR PICHAI: On our overall hardware strategy, we've always -- we've done devices like Nexus or Google Pixel, et cetera. We realize a lot of computing innovations happen at the intersection of hardware and software, and as we are building ecosystems and broad platforms we need a way to drive them forward. That is the context in which we do.

There are areas where we have done it seriously, like Chromecast is a great example. We now have over 30 million Chromecast devices sold. That's an example of [varying this deeply]. Especially as newer areas emerge like Google Home, we want our ability to put the best experience possible in front of our users and guide the ecosystem. So that's how we think about it.

We're being much more thoughtful in how we approach it, and we're building a world-class team so we can do this for our users. But we are very thoughtful about how to approach it and we make sure to work with the ecosystem to accomplish what we're trying to do.

RUTH PORAT: And then on cars, self-driving cars is in Other Bets area, and so just a brief update there. We're now testing in four cities: Mountain View, Austin, most recently we expanded to Kirkland, Washington and to Phoenix. We've self-driven over 1.6 million miles. And the focus here for us is we're solving a really big need, safety, access and city efficiency.

The thing that's really motivating for us is when you look at over 30,000 car deaths in the US alone, that's what really inspired the founders to start working on this issue. And our approach is quite different from most others; we're focused on fully autonomous cars, because in early testing, we saw the risk of depending on drivers to remain engaged once you give them the option to switch off. So we've invested a lot there.

We're testing extensively based on this approach, and more specifically to your question, we're pleased to be working with FCA to advance the development of the self-driving cars. With them, we're more than doubling the number of cars that we have. But we do have huge respect for the expertise required so we do expect we'll work with many partners in this area.

OPERATOR: Justin Post, Merrill Lynch.

JUSTIN POST, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Thank you, a couple of questions. First on YouTube, just thinking about premium content, a lot of activity with streaming deals out there. Obviously, YouTube would be a natural place for streaming content, but even professionally developed content. Do you think you're letting an opportunity get by? How do you think about that?

And then Ruth, I know you have a lot of experience dealing with regulatory agencies in your last CFO role. There's been some new filings. Can you talk at all about how Google is thinking about that right now? Thank you.

RUTH PORAT: I'll start on the second question. Look, we continue to work constructively with regulators. We don't have an update on timing on any of the specific issues. But the main points in our view are the regulators have found that our businesses do help consumers. And the key mantra here is if we do the right thing for the user, all else will follow.

With respect to consumers, we continue to invest in innovative opportunities that create great experiences and improve their lives. And we're empowering small businesses globally by providing greater reach to customers, not just in their towns but across countries and around the world. And in our discussions, one of the very important points is we operate in a very vibrant competitive environment, and we're also proud of the fact that we're investing meaningfully in the ecosystem. For example, Android has helped foster remarkable and sustainable ecosystem of manufacturers and app developers and entrepreneurs, based on open-source software and open innovation. That's really the thrust of it is -- and the emphasis as we're continuing to work constructively with regulators, no additional update.

SUNDAR PICHAI: And Justin, on the live streaming question, I already mentioned that Live stream is a big focus for us. We've been at it for a while, and we built a great robust and mature platform for big events. We just announced Vitcon, our plans to make mobile live streaming features available within our core YouTube app on all mobile devices.

Our stream time is -- live stream time has increased 3X since the beginning of the year alone. And YouTube is the first major platform to support live content in 360 degrees. And recent examples, even the RNC and the DNC conventions, they're being live streamed on YouTube in 360, and so there's a lot of momentum there and we are absolutely committed to the space.

OPERATOR: Brian Nowak, Morgan Stanley.

BRIAN NOWAK, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Thank for taking my questions. I have two. The first one is on the US accelerated pretty nicely. Any specific buckets of advertisers or any of the innovative products that you'd call out as driving that acceleration in the quarter?

The second one, Sundar, you talked about using machine learning for better suggestions on YouTube. Could you just help us all think about what the level of engagement is on YouTube right now, whether it's minutes or maybe growth in minutes? How do we think about engagement in YouTube now?

RUTH PORAT: In terms of the US, the 25% year-on-year growth reflects strength across products; there's really nothing to call out. It's a modest acceleration consistent with what we saw overall. But it's really about mobile search.

SUNDAR PICHAI: On YouTube, I would, at a high level I would say we're not -- don't have any new metrics. But on mobile alone as I've said before, we reach more 18 to 34 and 18 to 49s than any other TV network, broadcast or cable. And every indication we see is that the growth is very, very strong, being driven by mobile and it's growing globally, as well. So overall, I think engagement is very, very healthy. I'm pretty excited about it.

BRIAN NOWAK: Great. Thanks.

OPERATOR: Thank you. This concludes our question-and-answer session for today. I'd like to turn the call back over to Ellen West for closing remarks.

ELLEN WEST: Thanks, everyone, for joining us today. We look forward to speaking with you again on our third-quarter 2016 call.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for participating in today's conference. This does conclude the program and you may all disconnect. Have a great day, everyone.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
goog : Alphabet Inc.
   IN
iappsp : Cloud Computing | i8394 : Computer Services | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | i8396 : Diversified Holding Companies
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Financial Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | uk : United Kingdom | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020160729ec7s00c9q
  


 HD
 Q2  2016 Care.com Inc Earnings Call - Final
   WC
6,611 words
   PD
27 July 2016
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©016 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved. 

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Greetings, and welcome to the Care.com second quarter 2016 earnings conference call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. A question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation. (Operator Instructions). As a reminder, this conference is being recorded.

   TD
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host, Ms. Denise Garcia, Investor Relations for Care.com. Thank you. You may begin.

DENISE GARCIA, IR, CARE.COM: Thank you. Good morning, and welcome to Care.com's financial results call for the second quarter of 2016 which ended on June 25.

During the course of this conference call, we will discuss our business outlook and make other forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These may include, among other things, projected financial results, our operating metrics, anticipated business and marketing investments, and strategies and expected results of those investments and strategies, anticipated future products or services, anticipated market demand or opportunities for our products and services, and other forward-looking topics. Such statements are only predictions based on management's current expectations. Actual results or events could differ materially from those predictions, due to a number of risks and uncertainties, including those set forth in the press release we issued today, as well as those more fully described in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

In addition, any forward-looking statements represent our views only as of today, and should not be relied upon as representing our views as of any subsequent date. While we may elect to update these forward-looking statements at some point in the future, we specifically disclaim any obligation to do so, even if our views change. Therefore, you should not rely on these forward-looking statements as representing our views as of any date subsequent to today.

We will also be referring to non-GAAP measures on this call, including adjusted EBITDA, which we refer to as EBITDA throughout the presentation. This measure represents pretax net loss, less depreciation and amortization, as well as certain other non-cash adjustments and certain unusual expenses, such as stock-based comp, M&A, and restructuring costs. We will also refer to non-GAAP EPS, which represents net loss less certain unusual expenses such as stock-based comp, M&A and restructuring costs. These non-GAAP measures are not prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. Reconciliations to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures are provided in the tables in the press release and Form 8-K filed today.

We will also be referring to profitability on this call. When we refer to profitability, we're referring to it in on an adjusted EBITDA basis, unless otherwise noted.

Today's call is available via webcast and a telephone replay will be available for one week following the conclusion of the call. To access the press release, supplemental and financial information or the webcast replay, please consult the IR Section of Care.com.

With that, let me turn the call over to Sheila Lirio Marcelo, Founder, Chairwoman, and CEO of Care.com.

SHEILA LIRIO MARCELO, FOUNDER, CHAIRWOMAN, CEO, CARE.COM: Thanks, Denise. Good morning and thank you all for joining us today. On todays call, Ill share financial highlights for the second quarter and discuss our notable activities during the quarter. I'll then turn the call over to Michael, who will provide more detail on financial performance and guidance for Q3 and the full year. Following our prepared remarks, well open the call to question.

Im excited that we beat our Q2 guidance on both revenue and EBITDA specifically both at $38.2 million of revenue and the positive $1 million of EBITDA exceeded the guidance we shared. Weve built the largest two-sided network for finding family care in the home, with 9.1 million caregivers and 11.6 million families. We continue to grow and believe we have a sizable opportunity ahead of us.

We have the highest unaided brand awareness among family seeking childcare, approximately 41%, which is roughly 5x that of our nearest competitor and are coming off our sixth quarter in a row of solid improvements in sales and marketing leverage.

In Q2, we experienced an 11 percentage point improvement versus prior in EBITDA as a percentage of revenue. This was primarily driven by the leverage we saw in our sales and marketing spend, from 55% of revenue in Q2 2015 to 49% in Q2 2016, and an improvement in our unit economics. The unit economics for our US consumer business, the combination of US matching and payments, continued to improve as we drove LTV up by 7% through gains in ARPU and [length of paid time] to improve our overall ROI while keeping CAC flat over prior. Michael will discuss this further in his financial remarks as well as share how we have improved leverage across every cost line in the business. We are committed to continuously innovating and improving our user experience for our consumers and enterprise clients, while driving shareholder value through sustained profitable growth and we remain comfortable with our long term EBITDA margin target of 20% to 25%.

Our strong business fundamentals, our leading online family care platform and our large estimated market opportunity of 44 million households and nearly 20 million providers in the US alone are key factors that attracted the interest of Google Capital. Last month we announced that theyd invested about $46 million in Care.com preferred stock at a premium of $10.50 per share, their first investment in a public company. They are now our largest shareholder. We use part of the proceeds to purchase shares from one of our early investors, Matrix Partners at $8.25 per share. The net impact of the Google Capital investment and the repurchase was share dilution at 2% at the close of the transactions and a net increase to our cash balance of $13.5 million.

As part of the investment, Google Capital has joined our Board of Directors. We now have access to some of the worlds leading experts at Google and Alphabet to help us continue to grow our business and differentiate our products and efforts are already underway as we continue to focus on our four key strategic priorities.

The first strategic priority is to increase overall organic traffic to our platforms, one of the key drivers of further sales and marketing leverage to building out community and continue to grow our search traffic. This past quarter we successfully integrated the Kinsights platform, our recent tuck-in acquisition into our Care.com community product. We continue to invest and engage in content thats seen year-over-year growth in organic search traffic of about 65% across the first half of 2016. We have seen a mix of high intent and low intent traffic and are focusing our efforts on improving paid member conversion of the high intent segment while increasing engagement of the lower intent visitors.

Our second strategic initiative is to further monetize our matching products by improving mobile conversion rates while also complementing our subscription business model with transaction revenue. On the last call, I referenced our revamped enrollment flows on iOS to enable in-app subscription. Early results are promising with the app consistently ranking in the top three paid applications in the lifestyle category of the iOS App store. We continue to observe the overall unit economics of this channel, and plan to update you on this later in the year. In addition, we continue to invest in our matching product to improve the user experience and mobile web and native apps on iOS and Android. We believe this will improve mobile conversion rates, which continue to be less than half of desktop.

Moving on to our testing of transactional models, we have two goals with this initiative. One, to monetize a meaningful subset of the roughly 85% of families who sign up for our free service, but don't upgrade to our paid subscription product, and two, to significantly expand the top of the funnel to realize a great share of our large total addressable market. Although we expect to remain in the pilot stage of this test into 2017, we believe this initiative provides us the opportunity to capture more of the $280 billion spent on care services each year in the US alone.

With the combined impact of mobile conversion and our diversion of traffic to test new transactional models, paying members in our US matching business were up 6% over Q2 of 2015 as we expected. We continue to forecast end-of-period paying members for the full year to be up versus prior by less than 10% as we've shared previously. We also expect growth in end-of-period paying members seeking care will become a less meaningful metric as transactional revenue streams become a growing share of the business longer term.

Our third strategic priority in 2016 comprises our post-match initiatives that are focused on two goals -- the first to help professionalized care giving by providing more services to our millions of caregivers, one of the largest groups of gig workers on a single platform in this growing on-demand economy, and the second, to develop products and services that help families manage their providers regardless of whether or not the match was made on Care.com. We plan to share our progress on these new initiatives later this year.

Finally our fourth strategic priority is Care@Work, formerly known as Workplace Solutions. Q2 was another strong quarter for Care@Work with revenue growth versus prior of 47% following 44% growth in Q1.

In the first half of 2016, we again saw revenue retention over a 100% as clients such as Facebook, Twitter, Putnam Investments and Tufts University chose to renew. This with driven by our industry-leading mobile innovation including our back-up care app and enterprise HR reporting dashboards, and our continued strength in back-up care fulfillment of about 90%, and net promoter score of greater than 70% year-to-date. In addition to renewals, we continue to add new clients in a range of industries including sports and entertainment, pharma, and technology. We expect growth in our enterprise business to continue to accelerate in the second half of 2016.

In summary, we remain committed to further top line growth, sustained profitability and product innovation to drive shareholder value. We believe that improving our unit economics while increasing long-term growth of paying customers in our consumer and enterprise businesses will continue to position us as the leading care platform serving families and caregivers.

Now Ill turn the call over to Michael.

MICHAEL ECHENBERG, CFO, CARE.COM: Thanks, Sheila. I'm pleased with our Q2 performance, as we continue to focus on revenue growth and sustained adjusted EBITDA profitability. Ill now provide additional color on our results starting with revenue.

In Q2, revenue grew to $38.2 million a 16% increase over Q2 2015 revenue of $32.9 million. Our US consumer business grew 13% to $30.7 million as the transition to mobile and our testing of new transactional models continued. Our other businesses which include international, Care@Work and Marketplace, delivered $7.5 million in revenue or 28% growth versus prior. Care@Work grew 47% and international grew 19%. We did slightly better than expected across businesses, which led to our exceeding the top of our revenue guidance range.

Now EBITDA. Q2 marks our third quarter in a row of EBITDA profitability. For the quarter, EBITDA was positive $1 million compared to a loss of $2.7 million in Q2 of 2015, a margin improvement versus prior of 11 percentage points, driven by scale and continued cost discipline.

Before turning to net income and EPS, I'll provide some color on the major cost lines, beginning with sales and marketing. We drove sales and marketing as a percent of revenue down six percentage points from 55% in Q2 of 2015 to 49% in Q2 of 2016. This is on top of the 15 percentage points of improvement we saw from Q2 of 2014 to Q2 of 2015. While we've maintained our ROI target of roughly 3X, this nevertheless allows for experimental spending on new acquisition channels, such as social and mobile video advertising. We expect that this, in combination with our organic activity and our R&D spending on community, will help us achieve further leverage gains down the road.

Moving to the other cost lines -- we expanded gross margin versus prior by about 20 basis points in the quarter. We also saw increased leverage on the G&A and R&D lines. They fell versus prior as a percentage of revenue by 200 basis points and 210 basis points respectively. These gains in operating leverage as a result of our continued focus on managing the pace of expenses through general cost discipline and the flow-through of the larger cost saving initiatives that we've discussed on past calls. We also get the benefit and leverage from relatively fixed costs like those related to occupancy against a growing top line and where we can reduce or offset fixed costs, we do that too.

A key part of this EBITDA picture is the continuing improvement in our unit economics. For our midyear update, I'll focus on the first half of 2016 relative to the first half of 2015. The headline is that ROI is up to 3.4X from 3.2X over this time period. Lifetime revenue was up 5% to $539 on the back of gains in both ARPU and length of paid time and gross margin is up 140 basis points taking LTV to $455, a 7% improvement. With CAC flat at $135, these yields will improve ROI.

A little more color now. The total ARPU increase of 4% comes from a 3% gain in matching and a 6% gain in payments. We're seeing the benefit of effective price increases along with the impact of our premium background check products. Length of paid time rose 1.5%, driven primarily by a 7% gain in matching, or roughly 2.5 weeks. The key driver of the matching increase is our ability to observe a longer time horizon, with the first half 2016 metric measured over five years as compared to four years for the first half of 2015. Length of paid time for payments rose by about 1%.

While the metrics will evolve with our business model as we've described, our goal going forward is to drive up the length of engagement and the effective price realization. More to come on future calls.

Moving now to EPS, Q2 non-GAAP EPS was negative $0.03 as compared to negative $0.12 in Q2 of last year. This improvement versus prior in non-GAAP EPS is mainly the result of flow-through from our EBITDA improvement versus prior. Relative to our Q2 guidance of negative $0.04 to negative $0.02, the impact of our better-than-expected EBITDA is offset by negative $0.02 associated with a timing change in the recognition of our federal tax provision. For the benefit of clarity non-GAAP EPS for the quarter would have been negative $0.01 had it not been for this timing change, which moved the relevant tax impact from Q4 to Q2.

Q2 GAAP EPS from continuing operation was negative $0.11, up from negative $0.17 in Q2 of 2015. And net income from continuing operation for the quarter was a loss of $3.4 million as compared to a loss of $5.4 million in the second quarter of 2015.

Regarding cash, we started the quarter with $52.3 million in cash and ended with $55.6 million. Key drivers here were the $1 million of EBITDA and changes in working capital, mainly from timing around accrued expenses and accounts payable. The Q2 ending cash balance pro forma for the Google Capital investment and Matrix repurchase is about $69 million.

I'll now provide a little more color on these transactions. Google Capital, a growth equity fund backed by Alphabet, made a $46.35 million investment in Care.com at the end of June. This transaction will be recognized in Q3. Under the terms of the agreement, Care.com has issued a newly authorized series of convertible preferred stock to Google Capital at an initial conversion price of $10.50 per share, representing a 21% premium to the 30-day volume weighted average trading price ended June 27 of $8.68. Dividends on the preferred stock accrue at 5.5% annually during the first seven years and are payable in kind.

We also repurchased 3.7 million shares of common stock from Matrix Partners at price of $8.25 per share, representing a 5% discount relative to that same $8.68. We funded the $30.5 million share repurchase with a portion of the proceeds from the investment by Google Capital. At the close of the two transactions, we saw share dilution of approximately 2% from a net increase of about 700,000 shares with the buyback offsetting most of the dilution impact of the investment.

Turning now to guidance, on revenue we're reaffirming our full year guidance from our last call of between $158 million and $162 million. For the third quarter, we're guiding to $39.5 million to $40.5 million. On EBITDA, we're raising the floor by $1.5 million, taking full year guidance to positive $9.5 million to $12 million and for the third quarter, we're guiding to positive $0.5 million to $1 million.

Consistent with my comments on the last call, this puts Q3 in the same neighborhood as Q2. We continue to expect that Q4 will be our quarter of highest profitability, with EBITDA margin in the mid-teens, a function of the seasonality, but has our spending less on sales and marketing than in other quarters. The raised floor in our EBITDA guidance contributes to a raised floor in our non-GAAP EPS guidance. Absent any change to share count, we will be changing our guidance from $0.09 to $0.19 on the last call to $0.13 to $0.19.

However, as a result of the Google Capital investment, the relevant share count is increasing, which takes our guidance range down $0.01 to $0.12 to $0.18. Specifically, this is based on an expectation of about 37 million weighted average diluted shares outstanding for the year, up from our expectation on the last call of 34.5 million. Because of the timing of the buyback, the share count for the purposes of non-GAAP EPS guidance for the balance of 2016 increases by more than the 700,000 share net increase I referenced a moment ago.

For the third quarter, we're guiding to non-GAAP EPS of between negative $0.03 and negative $0.01 with an expectation of about 35 million weighted average diluted shares outstanding and about 28.5 million basic shares outstanding.

A note on FX, for the balance of the year, we're expecting the euro to average $1.13 and the pound to average $1.30. 5% in either direction for both represents about $350,000 of revenue, a little less than $100,000 of adjusted EBITDA and about $0.02 of non-GAAP EPS. The EPS sensitivity includes the impact of revaluing balance sheet items denominated in foreign currencies. Note that we have limited Brexit-related currency risk.

Finally cash -- beginning with the $69 million pro forma balance at the end of Q2, our EBITDA guidance range for the remainder of the year and changes in working capital get us to a range of $73 million to $77 million at year end.

Let me wrap up before we open this to Q&A. I am pleased to report that we are on track with our expectation of sustained profitable growth, and we continue to focus on our key strategic initiatives to drive long-term growth and position Care.com to capture a greater share of our large addressable market.

With that, I'll open the call to your questions. Operator?

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: Thank you. (Operator Instructions). Our first question is coming from the line of Kerry Rice with Needham and Company. Please proceed with your question.

KERRY RICE, ANALYST, NEEDHAM: Thank you. Just mostly clarifying questions. So, on the US consumer matching business, the paying members declined slightly. And again I dont know if that was just related to the higher ARPU or if you could maybe just clarify the downtick because I don't think its seasonality.

The second is on length of paid time for payments, I thought you said that it was up 1% -- it seems like it's down a little bit and maybe better understand that.

And then the final question is, you talked about the transactional revenue growing. When do you kind of think of that becoming, I don't know if you call material 10% of revenue, any kind of thoughts about maybe as that grows, what you're expecting through the second half of 2016? Thank you.

SHEILA LIRIO MARCELO: Good morning, Kerry. Yes, so let me take the first one and then Michael can do the length of paid time and I'll come back to the transactional questions you had. With regards to end of period paying, we did see a 6% year-over-year growth in Q2.

As we shared, it was as we expected because we moderated our growth expectations and shared that our -- by end of year it will be less than 10% increase in end of period paying primarily driven by three things, one, the ongoing traffic shift to mobile and we know that its -- conversion is less than half of desktop.

The second is were expecting and we have been driving and diverting traffic away from subscriptions to test different types of business models that started earlier this year. And then the third is rather than offsetting this lower conversion rate specifically on mobile with higher spend, we're choosing to keep our ROI target within that 3X range.

And those are sort of the key drivers and is expected in our models. And so that 6% year-over-year growth in Q2 was what we were expecting. So turning it over to length of paid time -- Michael.

MICHAEL ECHENBERG: Yes, just very briefly, the measure that we're comparing is first half of 2016 versus first half of 2015 for the -- for the unit economics generally and then specifically for payments. So the numbers in question are 35.4 months cycling against 34.9.

If you were to look perhaps at quarters, you might see some flux, the reason why we focus with the level of a full half year is to chase out seasonality impacts.

KERRY RICE: Michael, maybe just a follow-up on that, Im just looking at the Q2 results supplement and maybe Im looking at this wrong, but under length of paid time under Q2 2015, it says 40 and then under Q2 2016 it says 35. So that 40 am I looking at it wrong or am I misunderstanding that?

MICHAEL ECHENBERG: We are -- let me come back to you on that. Sheila will pick up the last part and well come to that.

KERRY RICE: Okay.

SHEILA LIRIO MARCELO: So actually the third question you had in terms of transaction revenue and timing is related to the first in that our expectation is that the growth in end of period paying members will become of a less meaningful metric as transactional revenue becomes a growing share of our business longer-term. And so our expectation with the pilots that were testing now and the core experience specifically in part-time childcare, we expect to share that sometime next year as we continue to test into 2017.

MICHAEL ECHENBERG: And the short answer, it's just a definitional thing, that 40 that you're looking at in the supplemental materials is a different historical cut at the metric, the equivalent sort of churn based calculation thats 35 -- thats our 35 number in the first half of 2016. 35.4 unrounded would be 34.9 in the first half of 2015 and so we'll plan on clarifying that definitional issue going forward in the supplementary materials. Thanks for that.

KERRY RICE: Okay. Thank you, Michael.

OPERATOR: Thank you. Our next question is coming from the line of Doug Anos with JPMorgan. Please proceed with your question.

LINA RUDASHEVSKI, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Hi, this is Lina on for Doug. We're wondering so the $7.5 million revenue figure, which consists of Care@Work international and B2B, can you just give us a sense of the revenue split here by business line out of this categories growing and its larger than your payments isnt it? Thanks.

MICHAEL ECHENBERG: Yes, what weve said typically is that the other business category, which in total is about 19% of total revenue splits roughly evenly between B2B and international. And then B2B in turn splits between Care@Work and marketplace, with Care@Work being slightly larger than marketplace right now.

LINA RUDASHEVSKI: All right, thanks.

OPERATOR: Thank you. Our next question is coming from the line of Justin Post with Merrill Lynch. Please proceed with your question.

JUSTIN POST, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: Thank you. I have two questions. First, can you talk about the Google relationship and how that can help your business? Will it help you in search results or are there other technical things they can help with?

And then the second thing is regarding your enterprise business -- maybe walk us through the economics a little bit, is this a profitable business? Will it have better or worse margins in the consumer business? Thank you.

SHEILA LIRIO MARCELO: Sure. Good morning, Justin.

JUSTIN POST: Good morning.

SHEILA LIRIO MARCELO: Yes, with the Google relationship, what we're super excited about is that we got access to hundreds of experts at Google and Alphabet, and that includes helping us in a lot of different areas in terms of organic, enterprise, operational scaling, learning from the expertise that they have. So it really is across the board and thats why we're excited about that strategic investment.

Im turning it over to Michael for Care@Work.

MICHAEL ECHENBERG: Yes, with respect to Care@Work generally the business is among our fastest-growing segments. Growth versus prior in the first quarter of 44% up to 47% versus prior in Q2 with an expectation of further acceleration in the back half of the year.

The unit economics for that business are attractive to us, with sales people more than paying for themselves relatively quickly and over time generating very attractive ROI. As this business grows, we intend to provide a little bit more color on its unit economics as we already do for the US consumer business.

SHEILA LIRIO MARCELO: And to tie both of your questions together, one of the reasons that Google Capital actually invested was our Board Members own personal experience of having had the enterprise solutions since 2011 in having a great user experience overall for employees.

JUSTIN POST: Great. And then if you chose to lower the return, the three times return you're getting on your consumer business, could you potentially accelerate your consumer subscribers so if you change the ROI threshold, could you reaccelerate next year that's one of your priorities?

MICHAEL ECHENBERG: Its a great question and I would say look, based on what you hear -- what you heard Sheila describe, what all of our key strategic initiatives have in common, is they are around changing the shape of the top line trajectory. And so that obviously is what we're focused on with urgency.

With respect to the specific question around could we spend additional sales and marketing dollars -- we continue to be focused on the appropriate balance between growth and profitability. And we believe that those incremental dollars to drive customer acquisition are better spent on our product initiatives, R&D specifically being that were innovation-led as a business.

SHEILA LIRIO MARCELO: And to add to that I think a combination of seeing growth as well as continued sales and marketing leverage is the investment in organic traffic and continue to innovate there, Justin.

JUSTIN POST: Okay. Great. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Thank you. Our next question is coming from the line of Mitch Bartlett with Craig-Hallum Capital Group. Please proceed with your question.

MASON ANDERSON, ANALYST, CRAIG-HALLUM: Hey guys. This is Mason on for Mitch. Thanks for taking the questions. So first just on Care@Work -- hoping you can talk a little bit about what the pipeline for that looks like. Is there still more penetration we had in the large Fortune 500 type companies or youre starting to see smaller players in that? And then I have a few more after.

SHEILA LIRIO MARCELO: Yes. So when we think about the Care@Work business, its pretty wide open space in the opportunity there. We estimate about 10,000 companies in the US with more than 1,000 employees and we're still in the single-digit penetration. So its still early for that business. And as Michael shared, last year we saw, in Q1 we saw 44% year-over-year growth, Q2 47%, and we expect further acceleration for the second half of the year for that business.

MASON ANDERSON: Great. Thank you. And then as far transactional goes, maybe you can talk a little bit about how you see that ROI shaping out against your current ROI and LTV of the consumer business?

SHEILA LIRIO MARCELO: Yes. The way we see actually the piloting, the transactional user experience is potentially additive to the existing subscription. The reason is because we believe we can monetize a meaningful subset of the roughly 85% of families who sign up for our service, but dont actually upgrade to the subscription product. And then the second is to expand the top of the funnel to capture a greater share of the 44 million households that is a pretty big camp for us in the US alone.

And so we believe that continuing to manage a 3X ROI in the existing subscription business allows us to attract continued members and then transitioning them also to transact even though they may not be interested in the subscription product. So I think it lifts overall ROI is our expectation.

MASON ANDERSON: Perfect thats awesome. And then final one for me, just -- and this kind of relates to the question I just asked. On post-match products that kind of similar thinking there, obviously you think thats a big revenue opportunity or is it just kind of incremental to having new products or customers with small attach rate?

SHEILA LIRIO MARCELO: Yes. And the reason we actually internally call that post-match is because it's really designed to not necessarily depend on a match on the platform and we're starting to see that in our ARPU gains where we can sell our premium subscription products on background check.

And so we're continuing to add those other value-added services thats also reflected in ARPU. And so as we continue to add benefits that families can purchase for their caregivers or caregivers can purchase on their own, we do believe that will be additive to the overall business and continue to improve our unit economics.

MICHAEL ECHENBERG: And the one comment that I would add is some of these products are available to people irrespective of where the match was made, on Care.com or elsewhere.

SHEILA LIRIO MARCELO: And thats obviously our HomePay business, we added Workers Compensation, access to Healthcare starting in January and we'll be announcing more later this year.

MASON ANDERSON: Awesome. That is it for me. Thanks so much, guys.

OPERATOR: Thank you. Our next question is coming from the line of Brian Nowak with Morgan Stanley. Please proceed with your question.

BRIAN NOWAK, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Thanks for taking my questions. There are three. The first one is just thinking about the paying member growth throughout this year, are you expecting it to accelerate at all in your guidance?

And my second is just on kind of the longer term view around this transition toward a transaction model. Do you see a time where you could look to fully move away from subscription and pivot more of these users toward a transactional model? Is that a better long-term way to inflect the revenue? And I have one follow-up.

SHEILA LIRIO MARCELO: Right. So with regards to paying members, I think we're maintaining pretty much our expectations of less than 10% increase in end-of-period paying member growth by the end of the year. So we're maintaining that.

And then with regards to the overall transactional model, we see it actually as potentially additive to the subscription business and as I mentioned earlier in my answer to Mitch that, it is focusing specifically on targeting the 85% who dont convert to subscription and that we believe that we can enhance our offering to meet the different idiosyncratic needs of families.

BRIAN NOWAK: Great. And the last one I had, could you just -- in the second quarter, what did gross additions in churn look like and how does that compare to a year ago? Thanks.

MICHAEL ECHENBERG: Thanks for that question. We dont share those metrics as it stands right now. We are comfortably evolving our thinking with respect to how we describe the business, but for now we arent in the practice of sharing gross adds and churn like that.

SHEILA LIRIO MARCELO: Yes. And because of the definition of the business Brian, in terms of there is a reuse component that increases length of paid time. So these numbers dont actually necessarily churn out, for every 1000 members that join within a year about 10% leave after the year because we have high overall match rate with the service and once they match, they downgrade and then they come back to reuse the service, which is one of the key drivers of length of paid time.

MICHAEL ECHENBERG: And on the general question of gross adds, Ill just refer back to the general way that we framed out the moderated growth and end of period paying members as we've talked about the shift to mobile with its lower conversion rates than desktop and the resulting tempering of growing new sign-ups.

BRIAN NOWAK: Great. Thanks.

OPERATOR: Thank you. Our last question is coming from the line of Blake Harper with Loop Capital. Please proceed with your question.

BLAKE HARPER, ANALYST, LOOP CAPITAL: Good morning. First question for Michael. You had talked in the remarks about the fixed cost. I was just wondering to see what you think is an adequate fixed cost level for the growth you have in the business right now and when you would expect to have to increase that as far as your guidance you have this year or basically how far can you grow with the level of fixed costs that you have right now?

And then secondly for either you Michael or Sheila, you made some changes with the capital structure and the Board here in the past quarter. Just wanted to see if you think that that is sufficient and you have that where you want both postings where you want to be now or you can make more changes to that in the future or just be focused more on the product and member side going forward? Thanks.

MICHAEL ECHENBERG: Thanks Blake. And welcome to your new gig at Loop. Look, with respect to cost, we havent given specific color on absolute levels of fixed cost. We have talked and reflecting on our performance over the last few quarters about our satisfaction with driving up leverage. In the case of the quarter just ended, we had improved leverage on every cost line. And we continue as a team to be focused laser like on managing the pace of expenses because profitable growth is the name of our game and so you'll continue to hear us describe it that way and you'll continue to see us opportunistically taking cost in the right direction.

With respect to the financing events, I would say look, we're comfortable with the level of cash that we have. We believe it's more than sufficient to help us get where we need to be with respect to evolving the platform and just as you suggest, the focus of the team is on our aggressive software development plan to build out this platform and go after the enormous total addressable market that sits in front of us.

BLAKE HARPER: Great. Thanks a lot, Michael.

OPERATOR: Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of our question-and-answer session. I would now like to turn the floor back to Ms. Lirio Marcelo for her concluding comments.

SHEILA LIRIO MARCELO: Thanks to everyone for joining us today. We appreciate your questions and support. We remain on track with our product roadmap and strategy to drive long-term profitable growth. We believe we're on the right path with the right team and we're excited about the resources and expertise that Google Capital brings to the table. We look forward to speaking to you on future calls.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, this does conclude today teleconference. We thank you for your participation and you may disconnect your lines at this time.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
iemmow : Care.com Inc. | goog : Alphabet Inc.
   IN
i8396 : Diversified Holding Companies | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | iecom : E-commerce | iint : Internet/Online | itech : Technology
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Financial Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020160728ec7r001jl
  


 HD
 Q1  2016 Alphabet Inc Earnings Call - Final
   WC
9,553 words
   PD
21 April 2016
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©016 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved. 

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Alphabet, Inc. first-quarter 2016 earnings conference call.

   TD
(Operator Instructions)

I would now like to turn the conference over to Ms. Ellen West, Head of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.

ELLEN WEST, HEAD OF IR, ALPHABET, INC.: Thank you. Good afternoon, everyone, and welcome to Alphabet's first-quarter 2016 earnings conference call. With us today are Ruth Porat and Sundar Pichai. Some of the statements that we make today may be considered forward-looking, including statements regarding our future investments, our long-term growth and innovation, the expected performance of our businesses, and our expected level of capital expenditures. These statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially.

For more information, please refer to the risk factors discussed in our Form 10-K for 2015 filed with the SEC. Any forward-looking statements that we make are based on assumptions as of today and we undertake no obligation to update them.

During this call, we will present both GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures. A reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP measures is included in today's earnings press release. As you know, we distribute our earnings release through our Investor Relations website located at ABC. XYZ/investor.

This call is also being webcast from our IR website, where a replay of the call will be available later today. And now I'll turn the call over to Ruth.

RUTH PORAT, CFO, ALPHABET, INC.: Thanks. Our very strong revenue of $20.3 billion in Q1 underscored the great momentum of our businesses globally, with consolidated revenue growth again accelerating meaningfully, up 23% in constant currency versus last year. The primary driver was the increased use of mobile search by consumers, benefiting from our ongoing efforts to enhance the mobile search experience.

We also benefited from solid growth in desktop and tablet search, as well as continued strength in YouTube and programmatic advertising. We continue to rationalize our portfolio of products to ensure we efficiently and effectively focus our resources behind our biggest bets across Alphabet.

I will present to you in the following order. First, review the quarter on a consolidated basis for Alphabet. Second, review the results for each of Google and Other Bets. Finally, I will conclude with our outlook. Sundar will then review our business and product highlights for the quarter, after which we will take your questions.

Beginning with a summary of Alphabet's consolidated financial performance, total revenue was $20.3 billion, up 17% year over year, and down 5% sequentially. As a result of the ongoing strength of the US dollar, we realized a negative currency impact on our revenues year over year of $762 million, or $593 million after the benefit of our hedging program. Holding currency constant to prior periods, our total revenue grew 23% year over year and declined 4% sequentially, reflecting holiday seasonality.

Once again, Alphabet revenues by geography highlight both the strength of our business around the globe, as well as the impact that currency headwinds continue to have on our non-US business. US revenue was up 21% year over year to $9.4 billion, and down 9% versus Q4.

UK revenue was up 15% year over year to $1.9 billion, and flat sequentially. In fixed FX terms, the UK grew 21% year over year and 5% quarter over quarter. Rest of world revenue was up 14% versus last year to $9 billion and down 2% versus Q4. In fixed FX terms, revenues were up 25% year over year, and up 1% sequentially.

GAAP other cost of revenues were $3.9 billion. Non-GAAP other cost of revenues was $3.6 billion, up 27% year over year, primarily driven by Google-related expenses, most notably due to costs associated with operating our data centers, including depreciation, content acquisition costs, primarily for YouTube, and hardware costs related to sales of new Nexus, Chromecast and Pixel devices launched in the fall.

GAAP operating expenses were $7.3 billion in the quarter. Non-GAAP operating expenses were $6 billion, or 30% of revenue, up 11% year over year, and down 9% versus Q4. The year-over-year growth was primarily driven by R&D expense, mainly due to compensation expense related to head count growth.

On a GAAP basis, operating income was $5.3 billion, up 20% versus last year. The operating margin was 26%. Non-GAAP operating income was $6.8 billion, up 21% versus last year. The operating margin was 34%.

With respect to stock-based compensation, it totaled $1.5 billion, up 24% year over year, and up 4% sequentially, primarily reflecting increased head count and the impact of our senior executive equity refresh that occurs every two years. Head count at the end of the quarter was 64,115, up approximately 2,300 from last quarter. The vast majority of new hires continue to be engineers and product managers in areas where we've prioritized investment, such as Cloud and apps.

On a numbers basis, we're adding more head count in Google, while on a percentage basis we're growing faster in Other Bets. Other income and expense was negative $213 million. As discussed on prior calls, OI&E consists of a number of line items with different drivers, which makes it inherently unpredictable.

The key drivers this quarter were the ongoing drag from foreign exchange, given the volatility in currency markets, as well as losses recorded for marketable and nonmarketable securities. These items offset interest income from our investment portfolio, which remains fairly consistent.

Our effective tax rate was 18%, reflecting the geographic mix of our income and adoption of a new accounting standard that reflects certain SBC tax benefits in GAAP earnings that were previously recognized in equity. We have excluded these benefits in our non-GAAP earnings.

Net income was $4.2 billion on a GAAP basis, and $5.2 billion on a non-GAAP basis. Earnings per diluted share were $6.02 on a GAAP basis, and $7.50 on a non-GAAP basis.

Turning now to CapEx and operating cash flow, CapEx for the quarter was $2.4 billion, the substantial majority of which supported the Google segment. Operating cash flow was $7.7 billion, with free cash flow of $5.2 billion. We ended the quarter with cash and marketable securities of $75.3 billion, of which approximately $45 billion, or 60%, is held overseas. This reflects our strong operating cash flow offset by the impact of our share repurchases during the quarter of approximately $2.1 billion.

Let me now turn to our segment financial results. Starting with the Google segment, revenue was $20.1 billion, up 17% year over year, which includes the impact of FX. In terms of the revenue detail, Google sites revenue was $14.3 billion in the quarter, up 20% year over year, and down 4% sequentially.

Year-on-year growth reflects substantial strength in mobile search due to the ongoing benefit from the improvement in ad formats and delivery that we launched in the third quarter of last year. We continue to have solid growth from desktop and tablet search.

YouTube revenue continues to grow at a very significant rate, driven primarily by video advertising across TrueView and Google Preferred, with a growing contribution from app promotion. Network revenue was $3.7 billion, up 3% year on year, and down 11% sequentially, continuing to reflect the strong growth of programmatic, offset by the traditional network businesses.

Other revenue for Google was $2.1 billion, up 24% year over year, and down 1% sequentially. Year-over-year performance was driven by Play, as well as continued strong growth in Cloud and apps and a nice contribution from hardware.

Finally, we continue to provide monetization metrics to give you a sense of the price and volume dynamics of our advertising businesses. You can find the details in our earnings press release. As a reminder, these metrics similarly are affected by currency movements.

Total traffic acquisition costs were $3.8 billion, or 21% of total advertising revenue, up 13% year over year, and down 7% sequentially. The increase in both sites TAC and network TAC as a percentage of revenue reflects the fact that our strongest growth areas, namely mobile and programmatic, carry higher TAC.

Operating income excluding SBC was $7.6 billion, up 22% versus last year, for an operating margin of 38%. Google stock-based compensation totaled $1.3 billion for the quarter, up 25% year over year. Operating income reflecting the impact of SBC was $6.3 billion, up 21% versus last year, and the operating margin was 31%. CapEx for the quarter was $2 billion, reflecting investments in production equipment, facilities, and data center construction.

Turning to Other Bets' financials, as a reminder, the majority of these efforts are pre revenue. We continue to invest across these opportunities, doing so in a disciplined way. Because Other Bets' results aggregate the revenues and expenses from a number of businesses, operating in different industries, there is likely to be lumpiness in the reported results from quarter to quarter, which is why we think it remains most instructive to look at them over a longer time horizon.

For Q1, Other Bets revenue was $166 million, up 108% versus last year. Reported revenue for Other Bets was primarily generated by Nest, Verily and Fiber. Operating loss excluding SBC was $657 million in the first quarter. Including the impact of SBC, operating loss was $802 million. Other Bets' CapEx was $280 million in Q1, primarily reflecting ongoing investment in our Fiber business.

Looking forward, a few observations. First, regarding revenue, our culture of innovation drives our strong revenue growth. We've talked previously about the benefits from changes made to ad formats and delivery in the third quarter of 2015 and that continues to be a tail wind. Mobile, as an example, continues to offer sizable opportunity for revenue enhancement, given the increasing ubiquity of mobile use by consumers and the strong location and contextual signals from mobile devices. Although we remain intensely focused on innovation across Alphabet, the timing and magnitude of ongoing changes obviously are inherently uncertain and are not designed with an eye toward quarterly schedules.

Second, as to expenses, within Google, we continue to be focused on managing the expenses that we can actually control, as you can see from our results again this quarter. However, the secular trends driving revenue are accompanied by greater required investment in our ecosystem to support that revenue growth, most specifically the continued trend of higher TAC due to an ongoing change in mix within our sites and network businesses.

Third, regarding CapEx, as we have consistently said, technical infrastructure is a key strategic asset for us. We have tremendous scale and continue to add to it. The team continues to deliver innovative solutions that are creating meaningful efficiencies in machine use, allowing us to benefit from earlier investments and meet our growing Google requirements cost effectively. With regard to CapEx investments for Other Bets, the bulk of that is directed to our Fiber business, where CapEx should obviously increase as we execute in a growing number of cities.

Fourth, about our balance sheet, as I discussed on our Q4 call, last quarter we initiated steps to align our capital structure consistent with the move to Alphabet, providing greater flexibility as we continue to grow. Our exchange offer will be completed on April 25 and we have completed the move of our commercial paper and revolving credit facility from Google to Alphabet.

Finally, our strategic prioritization -- as I indicated last quarter, there are a number of different execution paths we are pursuing to optimize our investments and opportunities. In some areas, we will be increasing investment if teams meet milestones we set as part of our 2016 budgeting process. In other areas, we've chosen to work with industry-leading partners who can increase our momentum.

Finally, in certain areas where we have had multiple teams developing different approaches to a similar technology, we've been evaluating how to rationalize these approaches, enabling us to increase investments around a smaller, more focused set of opportunities. So, my closing comment is that in Q1, we continue to see tremendous revenue growth across our businesses and we remain focused on disciplined investing for the long term.

I will now turn the call over to Sundar.

SUNDAR PICHAI, CEO OF GOOGLE, ALPHABET, INC.: Thanks, Ruth. It's great to join you all today. Our teams are off to a great start this year and there is even more excitement in the month ahead as we gear up for big events like our annual developer conference, Google IO, our YouTube event Brandcast, and the Google Performance Summit for advertisers.

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and make it accessible and useful. And after 17 years, we have just scratched the surface of what's possible. We are reinvigorated around this mission and, as you will hear, we are making solid progress across many of our products.

Today, I'll quickly share a few highlights from the quarter, as well as some of the areas where we are enlisting to make our products more useful and intelligent. Then I'll give an update on our advertising business and our growing Cloud business.

A few highlights from the quarter. We continue to invest in making search more useful and assistive. In the early days when you did a search on your desktop, we gave you 10 blue links and then sent you on your way. Users still had to do too much work to find the information they were looking for.

We have made a lot of improvements over the years to add more comprehensive and assistive information right within the search results. For instance, 10 years ago, if you tried to find the score during your favorite soccer team's match, we would likely point to you some news articles or the team's website. Today, we show the live scores for nearly 200 soccer leagues across 70 countries so fans around the world can quickly find information, like upcoming schedules, team news, and conference standings, right in the search results. We are incredibly well positioned to better assist our users, thanks to our strengths in areas like search, geographical information, machine learning, image recognition, and natural language processing.

One of the key ingredients behind this push towards greater assistance is AI. We have long invested in building the best machine learning team and tools, and we are seeing these efforts bear fruit in many ways.

As many of you saw last month DeepMind's AlphaGo has been making great strides. It was a privilege to play legendary Go player, Lee Sedol, in such an important milestone for artificial intelligence. This is another step towards creating AI that could help us with everything from our daily tasks to potentially even bigger challenges, like climate change and cancer diagnosis.

At Google, machine learning is already helping us improve our products every day, in search and many other areas like photos, maps and more. Last quarter, I talked about how machine learning helps Smart Reply suggests responses in Inbox.

This quarter, we launched Goals in Google Calendar, an intelligent feature that helps users make the most of their time. You just add a personal goal, like "run three times a week," and Calendar will help you find the time, then help you stick to it.

There's still a lot more that we can do to make search and other Google services more assistive and helpful to you. You'll see a lot more from us this year.

On the content side, we are seeing great traction on Google Play and YouTube. YouTube still has incredible momentum and we continue to invest heavily here. What seemed like a moonshot a decade ago has grown into a booming community of engaged users, creators and brands, unlike any other video platform. YouTube on mobile alone now reaches more 18- to 34- and 18- to 49-year-olds in the US than any TV network, broadcast or cable.

This past quarter, we launched YouTube Originals, original content available on our premium service YouTube Red, and we are very pleased with how it's been going. And earlier this week we announced that we are making 360-degree live streaming available globally on YouTube. We are kicking things off by live streaming select performances at Coachella for fans around the world in 360 degrees.

Google Play remains a thriving hub for digital content across apps, games, music, movies, TV and books. Game developers of all sizes are building successful businesses in the Play store, thanks to its global reach of over 1 billion users. In fact, in 2015, we saw 50% more games reach over 1 million installs compared to the previous year.

And we keep adding great content to Google Play. For instance, performances by artists like Coldplay and Justin Bieber from the 2016 Brit Awards are available exclusively on Google Play music.

When we talk about great content, the mobile web is equally important. This quarter, our simple, fast and secure browser, Chrome, reached another important milestone, surpassing 1 billion monthly active users on mobile alone. And of course one of the keys to a great mobile web experience is fast content. As you know, we have teamed up with hundreds of publishers and tech companies to improve the mobile web for everyone with Accelerated Mobile Pages. Early data shows that these pages load 4 times faster and use 10 times less data than traditional pages.

We recently made it easy to find AMP in relevant mobile search and Google news results, giving users a lightning fast reading experience for top stories. And there are great advertising opportunities for publishers in these new fast pages. Another example is Progressive Web Apps, which combine the best of the web apps, allowing companies to build mobile sites that load quickly, send push notifications, have home screen icons, and much more.

Of course computing is the foundational layer through which all of our products are delivered. In March, we previewed the Android Nrelease to give developers an early look at what's coming in the next version of our software. This release has key features like multi-window support, direct reply notifications and battery efficiencies.

We are also building for future platforms. We expanded Android Auto to Brazil and Android Wear partners like Michael Kors and Fossil also announced that they are working on new devices coming later this year. In our newest platform, VR, we also recently introduced VR View, a quick and easy way for developers to include 360-degree VR images and videos in their apps and websites.

Now, moving on to some of the key drivers and trends in our advertising business. As people turn to their mobile phones in moments of high intent, which we call micro moments, Google has a compelling value proposition. We offer marketers four things -- the best ways to target commercial intent at the right moment, the best mobile ad formats, the best reach and range of quality inventory, and the leading measurement solutions.

First, thanks to our unique intent signals, we are able to connect marketers with the right customer at precisely the right time. A new example of this is Customer Match, which helps brands reach their most valued customers on Google search, YouTube and Gmail, with highly relevant and targeted ads. After using Customer Match to reactivate their loyal customers, specialty retailer Williams-Sonoma reported a 50% lift in revenue compared to previous campaigns that didn't use Customer Match.

Second, we continue to invest in the best new mobile ad formats tailored to help users find exactly what they need at the right moment. For example, we rolled out model automotive ads, which helps auto makers recreate the showroom experience by featuring images of cars alongside helpful information right in the mobile search results. On average, participating brands see a more than 30% increase in engagement rate with these new automotive ads compared to standard text ads.

Third, we provide advertisers with the best reach and inventory across many of the web's most coveted platforms. Marketers like HBO Now are seeing great results from our popular ad promotion offerings like universal app campaigns, which helps advertisers easily run campaigns in Google Play, YouTube, search, and across our display network.

In fact, in January, we saw a 200% year-over-year increase in ad-driven installs on android alone. And in our burgeoning programmatic business, we recently rolled out Programmatic Guaranteed, a new way to conduct direct deals between advertisers and publishers on high-quality inventory.

And, fourth, we give marketers powerful measurement tools so they know exactly how effective their ads are. Just this week, we announced the availability of sales lift studies to help consumer packaged brands better understand how their online videos are driving offline sales. This adds to our significant efforts in this area.

I want to specifically highlight the success we are seeing with YouTube advertising. As YouTube continues to grow with great content and engaged users, marketers can't get enough. For example, Microsoft Xbox hosted a six-hour live-streamed event on YouTube for their Halo 5 opening week, promoted with TrueView ads where 8 million people tuned in, helping it break sales records.

Excitement is especially high as we head into our annual Brandcast event coming up next month. Thanks to the success of Google preferred, this is the third year in a row we are making it the cornerstone of our offering to marketers. In fact,the number of brands in the US using Google Preferred has doubled year over year.

Now I want to spend some time on our exciting enterprise businesses, which have been gaining momentum. Last December, we have unified our Cloud businesses under one leader so we can innovate faster and better serve our customers. This decision is already paying off.

Enterprises are starting to see the power of combining Google Cloud platform with our suite of business applications, all of which are infused with our machine learning services. As companies accelerate their move to the Cloud, we can help them automate their IT operations, better understand their data, and become more cost effective and secure, while also offering them transformative office productivity. In addition, we are helping customers adopt our powerful Chromebooks and Android phones.

Our recent Next 2016 conference in San Francisco showed just how serious we are about the enterprise. It was wonderful to hear executives from Spotify and Coca-Cola share their stories about how they are benefiting from Google's Cloud technology, including our best-in-class security, reliability, and analytics.

We also introduced Cloud machine learning, which provides more on machine learning services with pretrained models, such as Cloud Vision API and Cloud Speech API. Our growth was accelerating going into that event and since then the quantity and quality of our enterprise conversations has risen to a whole new level.

Now we are investing in building our go-to-market activities to ensure we have the right expertise available for each of our business customers. We are enabling service partners to assist customers with everything from migrating to the Cloud to using machine learning to understanding their data. We are providing engineering to help them architect solutions and we are building out our support teams.

We are also helping businesses migrate to our suite of productivity applications, like Gmail, Docs and Drive, and customers love them. And we continue to accelerate our innovation in this area with new enhancements, such as Smart Reply and voice typing. It's gratifying to see the immensely positive response from our customers and partners who recognize that we offer a powerful combination that's unique to Google, unmatched product innovation combined with world-class security and reliability, technical transparency, and customer orientation.

To close, as I said before, Google's mission is and has always been to organize the world's information and make it universally accessible and useful. As I think about all of our businesses in each of the countries we reach, I have never been more excited about how our teams continue to bring this mission to life and make technology available for everyone.

I've been so proud to see us expanding our core products to more and more countries around the world. Street View in Sri Lanka, YouTube in Nepal and Pakistan, new Indic keyboards in India, and a new engineering center in Singapore that will help us get closer to the next billion users coming online by developing products that will work well for them.

We are laser focused on our mission at Google and I want to say thank you to all of the Googlers around the world who are helping us make it a reality each and every day.

Before we take your questions, Ruth and I wanted to take a moment to pay our respects to Bill Campbell, our very close friend and a mentor to many of us at Google and Alphabet who sadly passed on Monday. Bill spent endless hours with our founders and our leadership over the years, helping to build our board of directors and sustain our culture. He had a very big impact on our Company, made us all smile, and inspired many great leaders of the Valley. We offer our condolences to Bill's family and we will miss him.

And with that, I'll hand it back over to Ruth.

RUTH PORAT: We'll now turn it back to the operator for questions. Thank you.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions)

And our first question comes from Eric Sheridan of UBS. Please go ahead. Your line is open.

ERIC SHERIDAN, ANALYST, UBS: Thanks for taking the questions. Maybe just two. First, on YouTube. You've now played around with the idea of original content, also injected a subscription offering into the marketplace. What have you learned from the early days of original content and a subscription offering and how that might allow YouTube to evolve and change over time as a product offering?

And, second, with respect to the advertising business, I was curious if there were any verticals or geographies that you might call out as either strengths or weaknesses in the advertising business during Q1? Thank you.

SUNDAR PICHAI: Thanks, Eric. On YouTube, we are definitely excited by the successful rollout of YouTube Red. It's been very well received. We have really focused on our creators and partners, so hopefully you caught some of our YouTube originals. We have released six so far, which are available to YouTube Red members.

Early indications are that this is something that's going to resonate well with users. And we are working on a lot more original content throughout the year and we'll see how it goes.

RUTH PORAT: And then in terms of your question on the regions, as I tried to make clear in my opening comments, what we saw was real strength across the board. I think you could see that from the growth rates with US up 21% year over year. That was really strength across products.

UK, we're really pleased with the team. We continue to see great execution there, on a fixed FX basis, as I noted, up 21%. The biggest contributor to growth in the UK was mobile search.

And then rest of world, growing at 25% on a fixed basis, that's about in line with last quarter. We continue to be really pleased with the growth we're seeing there. In addition to the ongoing contribution from mobile, the rest of world also benefited from Play. And then really nothing to note with respect to verticals.

ERIC SHERIDAN: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Thank you. And your next question comes from Carlos Kirjner of Bernstein. Your line is now open.

CARLOS KIRJNER, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & CO.: Hi. I have two quick questions. First, on margins, despite the increasing TAC as a percentage of revenues, adjusted operating margins expanded almost 140 bps for Google year on year. Can you help us understand, even if roughly, how much of this margin expansion is specific to the quarter, like due to FX versus systemic or secular, so to speak?

And the second question, I think maybe for Sundar, can you talk a bit about the decision you took last year to have an additional ad on mobile search response pages, relegating organic results below the fold? How is it good for the user experience to have ads instead of organic? And if it is good, what does it say about the potential for innovation in organic search? Thank you.

RUTH PORAT: Thanks, Carlos. Starting on the margin question, you've hit a couple of the components. So, I'm going to try and just break it down into the drivers on cost of sales versus OpEx more broadly, as you asked it.

In cost of sales or the gross margin trend, as I tried to make clear, certain costs associated with revenue are going up, given secular trends in the market. So in sites, mobile carries higher TAC than does desktop, and mobile remains a strong growth driver, so we do expect this to continue. Then on the network side, we have strong growth in programmatic and that carries higher TAC than traditional ad buying. The obvious result is more revenue and gross margin dollars, but at a lower margin.

And then on OpEx, more broadly, we remain very committed to long-term revenue growth and profit, as we've talked about on prior calls. We did set priorities in the 2016 budget and we made some tough choices because our aim is to be as efficient and effective as possible with investment dollars, while properly funding the big opportunities that we have that are reflected in OpEx.

So as I've repeatedly said, some of the biggest bets are in Google. Sundar commented quite a bit on Cloud. That's an exciting opportunity. We want to continue to add head count to drive growth. And all of this is consistent with our goals of driving long-term growth in revenue and profit.

So, it goes to my opening comments that we're focused on controlling the expenses we have. And then there are certain trends, as I noted, in particular on the TAC side, that have been increasing with the strong growth we're seeing in mobile and programmatic.

SUNDAR PICHAI: And, Carlos, on the ad side, we are incredibly sensitive to the user experience on search. So, we are constantly evolving how we display ads. But we take a very long-term view. Our ads quality efforts, these are people who have been working on this for many years, and they are squarely focused on optimizing for positive metrics across users and advertisers.

So, our utmost focus is making sure for users these changes have a positive impact. Mobile is an entirely different paradigm. There's a lot of things that are counter intuitive. For example, users are very comfortable swiping on mobile. We deeply think about these things and I'm very comfortable about how we are planning this for the very long term.

CARLOS KIRJNER: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Thank you. And our next question comes from Ross Sandler of Deutsche Bank. Your line is now open.

ROSS SANDLER, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Thank you. Ruth, I just had one question, a follow-up from a previous one on the regions. The US had greater than expected seasonal downtick. It was down 9% quarter on quarter. And I know that you picked up Yahoo and lost AOL from 4Q to 1Q. So is that the primary driver of that, or as YouTube becomes a bigger percent of your revenue, should we expect greater seasonal uptick in 4Q and seasonal downtick in 1Q? Can you just give us a little bit more color on what's driving that? Thanks.

RUTH PORAT: We don't, as you know, comment on any particular partners. So all I can add here is that the deceleration quarter on quarter does reflect holiday-related seasonality, which we did call out last quarter, and you see that in a number of the products.

OPERATOR: Thank you. And our next question comes from Mark Mahaney of RBC Capital Markets. Your line is now open.

MARK MAHANEY, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Thanks. You talked about TAC rising because of the increasing mix shift towards mobile and programmatic. It seems like there was a little bit extra bump-up this quarter. Would there have been any one major renewal of a deal that would have caused that? It did seem to spike more than what you would get, I assume, if you just rolled out mobile and programmatic.

and then any commentary on Nest? There seemed to be an unusual amount of press inter-quarter on troubles at that asset. Could you just comment quantitatively on how the asset is doing? Thank you.

RUTH PORAT: On TAC, it's really the ongoing growth in mobile, as I've answered a couple of times here, and that reflects the strong secular trends behind mobile. So, really nothing to add on the Sites TAC side. And then on the network side, again, it's really the higher TAC that we're seeing on programmatic. So, nothing really to call out.

And then with respect to your question on Nest, what I'll add there is Nest products are best sellers in the category. It's a leading brand in the connected home. It's obviously early, but a very exciting category. And as we've talked about, our Other Bets are all very early stage, but continues to be best seller in the category.

MARK MAHANEY: Okay. Thank you.

OPERATOR: And your next question comes from Heather Bellini of Goldman Sachs. Your line is now open.

HEATHER BELLINI, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Great. Thank you. This question is for Sundar. It's multipart. I was wondering if you could talk a little bit more about your Cloud ambitions and wondering what do you see as the biggest changes in strategy post Diane Greene's appointment? And then how are you getting enterprise customers to think of you as having enterprise DNA, if you will, which is something that took Amazon a long time to get? And then, lastly, if you could just help us think about which type of work loads do you see Google as being the most competitive for at this time? Thank you.

SUNDAR PICHAI: Thanks, Heather. Obviously, I talked about it a lot in my prepared remarks. We already had a lot of momentum in this area and in many ways, given the scale at which we have done this internally for us, we view it as an area we are very competent at.

What Diane has brought to us is a deep understanding of how to think about what enterprises need and adapt to it in a very detailed and nuanced way. You saw the momentum at the Next conference which she hosted. We are getting a lot more inbound. We are in much deeper conversations than we have ever been before.

We do think we are competitive across a range of workflows. And areas where we view we will be uniquely capable over time is because of our machine learning capabilities helping enterprises really understand their data, understand how best they can do what their core competencies, really revolutionize around that. It's early days and it's a long-term investment, but bringing on machine learning APIs over time through Cloud, to our enterprise customers is going to be a huge source of differentiation for us.

HEATHER BELLINI: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Thank you. And our next question comes from Doug Anmuth of JPMorgan. Your line is now open.

DOUG ANMUTH, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Thanks for taking the question. Two things. First, Sundar, I was hoping you could comment more on mobile search pricing. In particular, it gets a little bit lost just within overall pricing per click, especially with YouTube in there. So, I was hoping you could comment on pricing on more of a like-for-like basis. And as inventory perhaps stabilizes some, would you expect pricing here to increase over time as conversion improves?

And then, secondly, Ruth, if you could just comment a little bit more on other income and just help us understand some of the details there on the negative number in that line. Thanks.

RUTH PORAT: I'll take those. In terms of the first question, there's obviously some data, as I referenced, attached with the press release. And as you know well, all of the monetization data reflects a host of factors from geographic mix and device mix and property mix, as well as it's all on a floating FX basis and clearly FX is a contributor.

I think you're trying to get more color on mobile, and what's hopefully clear from the opening comments is that mobile continues to outperform. Desktop growth did pick up modestly in Q1, but from opening comments it should be clear that mobile search revenue was up significantly.

And then in terms of your question on other income, let me point you to the OI&E table that's at the end of our press release. This line consists of a number of different items. They can be affected by different trends, but you can see the breakout in that table, which hopefully is helpful there.

Interest income has been fairly consistent. We do continue to manage our portfolio conservatively. FX is consistently an expense here. It was slightly elevated again this quarter, given the ongoing volatility in foreign exchange markets. We haven't changed our approach yet, but upward volatility in the markets.

Then the OI&E line also includes changes in value or equity pickups related to marketable and nonmarketable securities and investments. We appreciate with all of those different line items, it's tough to forecast, but you can see the detail attached to the press release.

DOUG ANMUTH: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Thank you. And our next question comes from Stephen Ju of Credit Suisse. Your line is now open.

STEPHEN JU, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Thank you. Sundar, I think it was at IO last year when you started to call out the products which have over a billion users. At this point, are you able to elaborate on what percent of these users have either Google ID or are known users for you?

And, Ruth, a housekeeping item on the CapEx here. When you talk about CapEx for the Other Bets being primarily for Fiber, is this a fairly straightforward passing of homes, or is your cash used going toward developing new technology or products like Sky Vendor? Thanks.

SUNDAR PICHAI: Stephen, on the first question, maybe I can add more color this way. Our user base is scaling most -- we are also seeing tremendous shift towards mobile. So, many of these products we are already over 50% of these users are coming from mobile. And in mobile typically the users, all users are signed in. So, so I think over time as the shift continues, I think we have a user base which is signed in. And so that's the way we think about it.

RUTH PORAT: And then on the CapEx question, if I just broaden that a bit, the CapEx trend is in part efficiency, in part is timing. When you look at year-over-year spend compared to last year, we had some outsized machine spend that filled some recently constructed data centers. And as we've consistently said, our technical infrastructure is a really key strategic asset for us. We have tremendous scale. We continue to add to it and the team has done an extraordinary job innovating to deliver some meaningful efficiencies in machine use, and that enables us to benefit from earlier investments.

Although you asked about the Fiber side, just to build off of what Sundar was saying on Cloud, given what a strategic priority that is for us and the requirements for a leading Cloud business are clearly at the core of all that we do, and at a scale that's unmatched given our sustained investments in infrastructure, one of the things that was also mentioned at Next is that we plan to add 12 new regions. To be clear, we're going to be using multiple execution paths for those data center requirements.

In other words, every Cloud region isn't necessarily going to be housed in a Google data center, so we don't need to build data centers in all of these places. They will all incorporate the same Google hardware and software and meet the same performance, reliability and security requirements. And investing in Cloud isn't only about CapEx. We also put a lot of head count behind that again this quarter.

And then, more specifically, on the Fiber side, as you are pointing to, we do expect that to increase throughout the year as we execute on the cities that we've already announced. It's primarily about continuing to execute on those cities. We now are up to 22 announced cities, two most recent announcements being some buildings, we're bringing Fiber to select buildings in San Francisco and we're working with the city of Huntsville. That being said, I liked your question because we're also very focused on innovation and technology. So, so it's really both but predominantly continued execution against the cities that we've announced.

STEPHEN JU: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Thank you. And our next question comes from Dan Salmon of BMO Capital Markets. Your line is now open.

DAN SALMON, ANALYST, BMO CAPITAL MARKETS: Hi, good afternoon, everyone. Just a few questions on YouTube. First, on the preferred program, Ruth, you mentioned it sounds like the growth continues to be really strong there going into Brandcast. I was just curious, is the program now formally rolled out globally? And then I've got one follow-up on Red.

RUTH PORAT: In terms of preferred, you're right, I did note that the strong revenue growth there is driven virtually exclusively by video. That's TrueView and increasingly Google preferred and, as we said, nice app promotions there, as well.

SUNDAR PICHAI: And it's largely rolled out in major markets and we'll continue to do that.

DAN SALMON: Okay, great. Then just a quick one on Red. It seems as if the direction for the content remains to focus on your own originals right now. What may or may not make you consider looking at other licensed, maybe more traditional TV or film content?

SUNDAR PICHAI: We are going to approach it comprehensively. And we have obviously had great early traction with the six original series we have released so far. This year we are on track to release 15 to 20 original series of films coming up, so I think that's an exciting direction we will pursue. But at the same time, we'll keep an open mind about all other avenues, as well.

DAN SALMON: Okay, great. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Thank you. And our next question comes from Justin Post of Merrill Lynch. Your line is now open.

JUSTIN POST, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Great. Thank you. I have a few. First, for Sundar, could you talk about the Cloud, why really get more aggressive now? We've been riding on it for many years. I'm just wondering why now really ramping up the investment.

And how would you characterize the margins or the returns on capital in that business? Why is that interesting for you?

And then maybe for Ruth, you give us a lot of detail on click growth, but I'm just wondering if you can help us all on query growth, just how that's trended since mobile really took off. Is it growing? How is it trending? And do you have more room to monetize given where your ad coverage is now? Thank you.

SUNDAR PICHAI: Just on the first one, you know, I would say there are three points of inflection for us and that's why we are really ramping it up. The first is we have always been doing Cloud. It's just been consuming it all internally at Google. But as we have grown, really mature in terms of how we handle our data center investments and how we can do this at scale, we have definitely crossed over to the other side where we can thoughtfully serve external customers. So that's the first point of inflection.

The second point of inflection for us is, as we've been investing in machine learning and AI for years, but I think we are at an exceptionally interesting tipping point where these technologies are really taking off. And that is very applicable to businesses, as well. So, thoughtfully doing that externally, we view as a big differentiator we have over others.

And third is definitely Diane Greene coming in. I want her to scale our efforts here thoughtfully when it is set up with a great leader who understands this space deeply. And so those are the three main reasons why we are significantly ramping up what we are doing there.

RUTH PORAT: And then on query growth, we don't really talk about query growth, as Sundar said, focused on answers, there are a lot of new ways to search on mobile, voice, et cetera. So let me actually try to add a little more on Cloud.

We've consistently said it's early days. You asked about ROIC. We're really excited about the magnitude of the opportunity, as Sundar has talked about. And one thing that's really powerful here is we're benefiting from our heritage, from our differentiated strength, the scale of our infrastructure. Those are investments we've made over many years that give us extraordinary efficiency.

We have robust security. Again, we've invested over many years. We have unparalleled machine learning. And so, really, when we think through to the ROIC opportunity compelling, building on investments that we've made and continue to make in a very exciting opportunity.

JUSTIN POST: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Thank you. And your next question comes from Anthony DiClemente of Nomura. Your line is now open.

ANTHONY DICLEMENTE, ANALYST, NOMURA SECURITIES: Thanks for taking my questions. I have two. First, for Sundar on Google Fiber, just at a higher level, would you please broadly update us on your learnings from Google Fiber up until this point? And what are the goals that Google is trying to achieve with Google Fiber in terms of longer-term ambitions, in terms of TV or video distribution?

And then, Ruth, you mentioned in your prepared remarks mobile search being driven by improvements in ad formats and deliveries starting in the third quarter of last year. Is there any way to frame or think about what sites revenue growth might be on a recurring basis if we were to try to exclude the impacts or benefits from the changes in formats that you mentioned, and as we start to think about the year-over-year growth comparisons there for the back half of 2016? Thank you.

RUTH PORAT: Let me go ahead and start on the Fiber question. Fiber is one of the businesses that is in Other Bets. And like all of our access efforts, we're really focused and our vision here is to create abundant and ubiquitous networks. We think there's a lot of opportunity to improve the experience that users have. And that's where the Fiber team is focused.

We have some other efforts within Other Bets that are really exciting, as well, that address access, within our X businesses targeting the 4 billion people still offline, and we view that as a big opportunity and an important problem to address.

In terms of the early learnings, there have been a lot. As I talked about on the last-quarter call, we've really continued to refine and enhance our go-to-market strategy, the way we're working with cities, the way we're building out those cities, and really the level of technology and innovation that we can use to differentiate the offering, and are pleased with the ongoing efforts there.

And then in terms of the change in ad format, as we've talked about on a lot of calls, innovation is core to all we do. It obviously happens on its own time line. We have a culture of it. We're continuously focused on it. Not going to break out impact for any change. We're constantly looking to innovate and improve the user experience.

There was a stepup, which we've talked about, and we continue to look at other ways, as Sundar talked about, to continue to enhance the user experience. But I think the most important point, and somewhat implicit in your question, that shouldn't take away from the very strong underlying revenue and revenue growth that we have in that business.

ANTHONY DICLEMENTE: Thank you, Ruth.

OPERATOR: Thank you. And our next question comes from Brian Nowak of Morgan Stanley. Your line is now open.

BRIAN NOWAK, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Thanks for taking my questions. I have two. Just on mobile search and the mobile ad format changes in 3Q of last year, could you just help us, were those changes made globally last year in the third quarter? And if not, how should we think about when they will go globally or how you're phasing those changes?

Then the second one, on the desktop. Ruth, you mentioned that desktop picked up in the first quarter. What drove that pickup in growth? And any learnings from the change in the right-hand rail in the first quarter? Thanks.

SUNDAR PICHAI: The launch which you are talking about was global. We've been doing these changes for a long time. We try to roll it out globally and that's what we did.

RUTH PORAT: And then in terms of the desktop format change, we had a modest benefit from that change where, just to be clear for all, we reduced the ad load by removing ads on the right side of the screen, while adding a fourth ad slot for highly commercial queries. And, in the aggregate, that resulted in a cleaner, more useful presentation and improved user experience. It was a modest impact, but additive.

BRIAN NOWAK: Thanks.

OPERATOR: Thank you. And our next question comes from Ben Schachter of Macquarie. Your line is now open.

BEN SCHACHTER, ANALYST, MACQUARIE RESEARCH: A few questions. Sundar, your commentary on Play focused on games. But what needs to happen to have more verticals beyond games become meaningful?

And then, Ruth, a couple more on the sites TAC. At a high level, how do average TAC rates differ on mobile versus desktop? Aside from the TAC rates, are there any other notable contractual issues that differ meaningfully between mobile and desktop search partnerships? Thanks.

SUNDAR PICHAI: Ben, on the first question, I think that's a good question. We are seeing traction across categories, it's just that games are on a much larger scale. But for example, when we get into education, if you view that as a vertical, we do see traction there, and so on.

I think taking a very long-term view, it will probably reflect where there are commercial opportunities across every vertical. But game developers are the savviest developers in terms of getting ahead of this curve.

RUTH PORAT: And on your TAC question, as I've indicated a number of times already on the call, the TAC rate is higher on mobile. Mobile is growing at a faster rate and what you're seeing here is a mix shift. So, there is a delta between the two.

But I think, importantly, we're benefiting from an important secular trend behind mobile, and like the revenue dollars and the gross profit dollars that come as a result of that. And we'll continue to innovate on mobile and are excited about the opportunity in particular with all the changes that we continue to see in the way users use the phone and the opportunities.

OPERATOR: Thank you. And our final question comes from Colin Sebastian of Robert Baird. Your line is now open.

COLIN SEBASTIAN, ANALYST, ROBERT W. BAIRD & CO.: Okay, great, thanks very much. Sundar, first off, you mentioned a lot of the ongoing projects at Google. But I wonder if you could share with us the two or three areas that you're spending most of your time on or are focused on.

And related to that, one of the strengths of the Company is obviously the strong engineering orientation and ability to hire some of the best talents and acquire the best technology. And the Company's been able to adapt very quickly to change. But I wonder which areas of your business demonstrate where Google or Alphabet are really on the forefront of development, pushing innovation rather than adapting to changes you see in the market. Thank you.

SUNDAR PICHAI: Thanks, Colin. On the first thing, obviously we are doing many things, but I tend to spend my time at the core of our core product. I think we have a unique opportunity to evolve search to be very assistive in how we serve our users, and be an intelligent assistant that helps users throughout their needs in context, especially in the context of mobile. That's an area definitely I spend a lot of time on.

And related to that, we do think we can do a lot of that based on our core advancements in machine learning and AI. So, that's an area we invest a lot and I'm thoughtfully involved with that, as well.

And, third, definitely from a computing standpoint, computing is foundational to everything we do. So, thinking through about how computing evolves, be it emerging technologies like VR or how mobile advances over the next few years. These are all areas where I do spend time on.

And, overall, I do think in the long run, I think we will evolve in computing from a mobile-first to an AI-first world. And I do think we are at the forefront of the development. So, we don't view it as adapting to it as much as pushing hard and getting there. So that's the core of what we do and we'll continue to do that.

COLIN SEBASTIAN: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Thank you. And that concludes our question-and-answer session for today. I would like to turn the conference back over to Ms. Ellen West for closing comments.

RUTH PORAT: Thanks to everyone for joining us today. We look forward to speaking with you again on our second-quarter 2016 call.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for participating in today's conference. This does conclude the program and you may all disconnect. Have a great day, everyone.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
goog : Alphabet Inc.
   IN
iappsp : Cloud Computing | i8394 : Computer Services | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | i8396 : Diversified Holding Companies
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Financial Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020160422ec4l00911
  


 HD
 Q4  2015 Alphabet Inc Earnings Call - Final
   WC
9,726 words
   PD
1 February 2016
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©016 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Alphabet Inc fourth-quarter 2015 earnings conference call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode.

   TD
(Operator Instructions)

As a reminder, this call is being recorded.

I would now like to introduce your host for today's conference, Ellen West, Vice President of Investor Relations. Please go ahead, ma'am.

ELLEN WEST, VP OF IR, ALPHABET INC.: Thank you.

Good afternoon, everyone, and welcome to Alphabet's fourth-quarter 2015 earnings conference call. With us today are Ruth Porat and Sundar Pichai.

Some of the statements that we make today may be considered forward-looking including statements regarding our future investments, our long-term growth and innovation, the expected performance of our businesses, and our expected level of capital expenditures. These statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially.

For more information, please refer to the risk factors discussed in our Form 10-K for 2014 filed with the SEC. Any forward-looking statements that we make are based on assumptions as of today and we undertake no obligation to update them.

During this call, we will present both GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures. A reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP measures is included in today's earnings press release.

As you know, we distribute our earnings release through our Investor Relations website, located at abc.xyz/investor. Please refer to our IR website for our earnings releases. This call is also being webcast from abc.xyz/investor where a replay of the call will be available later today.

I'll now turn the call over to Ruth.

RUTH PORAT, CFO, ALPHABET INC.: Thanks.

Revenue momentum in Q4 underscored the strength of our businesses globally, with consolidated revenue growth accelerating meaningfully versus last year. The primary driver was the increased use of Mobile Search by consumers, benefiting from our ongoing efforts to enhance the efficacy of Mobile Search, as well as from the holiday season. In addition, results reflect ongoing momentum in YouTube and programmatic advertising.

There were a number of unusual items in the quarter that I will address during the discussion of results. With the move to our new Alphabet structure, we conducted a detailed review of business opportunities and investment levels across Google and Other Bets.

We made some important decisions to prioritize the allocation of resources and capital to maximize long-term potential within each area. We are pleased to be sharing financial results for each of Google, and what we call the Other Bets, and thereby provide more visibility into financial trends in each segment.

In light of our move to segment reporting, I'm going to present to you in this order. First, review the quarter on a consolidated basis for Alphabet. Second, review the results for each of Google and Other Bets.

Finally, I will conclude with key themes for the near term. Sundar will then review our business and product highlights for the quarter, after which we will take your questions.

Beginning with a summary of Alphabet's consolidated financial performance. Total revenue was $21.3 billion, up 18% year over year and up 14% sequentially.

As a result of the ongoing strength of the US dollar, we realized a negative currency impact on our revenues year over year of $1.3 billion, or $1 billion after the benefit of our hedging program. Holding currency constant to prior periods, our total revenue grew 24% year over year and 15% sequentially. Alphabet revenues by geography also highlight both the strength of our business around the globe, as well as the impact that currency headwinds continue to have on our non-US business.

US revenue was up 24% year over year to $10.3 billion, and up 18% versus Q3. UK revenue was up 16% year over year to $1.9 billion, and up 7% sequentially.

In fixed FX terms, the UK grew 20% year over year and 9% quarter over quarter. Rest-of-World revenue was up 12% versus last year to $9.1 billion, and up 12% versus Q3. In fixed FX terms, revenues were up 26% year over year, and up 14% sequentially.

Non-GAAP other cost of revenue was $3.9 billion in Q4, up 24% year over year, primarily driven by Google-related expenses, most notably due to costs associated with operating our data centers including depreciation, content acquisition costs, primarily for YouTube, and hardware costs, due to the launch of our new Nexus, Chromecast and Pixel devices.

Non-GAAP operating expenses were $6.6 billion, or 31% of revenue, up 14% year over year and up 15% versus Q3, primarily driven by R&D expense, particularly affected by expenses resulting from project milestones in Other Bets established several years ago. On a GAAP basis, operating income was $5.4 billion, up 22% versus last year. The operating margin was 25%.

Adjusting for stock-based compensation, our non-GAAP operating income was $6.8 billion, up 22% versus last year. The operating margin was 32%.

With respect to stock-based compensation, it totaled $1.4 billion, up 20% year over year and flat sequentially, primarily reflecting headcount, which was up 15% versus last year and 3% versus 3Q 2015. The vast majority of new hires continue to be engineers and product managers.

Other income and expense similarly included an unusual item this quarter. Specifically, other income and expense was negative $180 million due primarily to the write-down of securities received in conjunction with the sale of a business, offsetting interest income from the investment portfolio. Finally, taxes also reflect the impact of certain one-time items in the quarter affecting the US rate.

Specifically, taxes reflect the resolution of a multi-year audit in the US, as well as the full year impact in Q4 of the US Congress making the R&D tax credit permanent. Our effective tax rate for the full year, including these one-time items, was 17%.

Net income was $4.9 billion on a GAAP basis and $6 billion on a non-GAAP basis. Earnings per diluted share were $7.06 on a GAAP basis and $8.67 on a non-GAAP basis.

Turning now to CapEx and operating cash flow. CapEx for the quarter was $2.1 billion. Operating cash flow was $6.4 billion with free cash flow of $4.3 billion. We ended the quarter with a cash and marketable securities balance of approximately $73 billion, of which approximately $43 billion or 59% is held overseas.

Our cash balance reflects the impact of seasonal working capital requirements and our repurchase during the quarter of approximately 2.4 million shares of Alphabet Class C stock for a total repurchase amount of $1.8 billion. Our Board of Directors recently authorized a modest increase in the size of the stock repurchase we announced last quarter. You can find the details in our earnings release of the total remaining authorization.

Let me now turn for the first time to our segment financial results. In our earnings release, we are providing key financial metrics for Google on the one hand and the combined Other Bets businesses on the other hand. I will review the results for each segment with respect to revenues, operating income, and CapEx, which I will discuss. You can also find in the release details of stock-based compensation, as well as depreciation, amortization, and impairments for Google and the combined Other Bets.

As I go through the Google segment, I'll be providing the same level of detail we've presented in prior periods, both to best assist in comparability relative to prior periods, and given the fact that Google continues to represent the overwhelming majority of our results. For Other Bets, I'll be discussing revenue, operating income and CapEx for the full year [2015]. Detail on a quarterly basis is included in the press release.

Keep in mind that Other Bets represents an aggregation of businesses, many of which operate in distinct sectors with different business models. Given their stages of development, these businesses will have idiosyncrasies with respect to the timing of revenue, expenses, and CapEx resulting from milestones, partnerships, and other factors. You can expect that results for the combined Other Bets may be uneven in the near term, so it's likely to be more instructive to look at them on an annual or rolling 12-month basis to assess their trajectory.

Starting with the Google segment, which includes our Search and Ads business, as well as related businesses such as Play, hardware, and Cloud and Apps, as well as our newer efforts within Google such as Machine Learning and virtual reality. Google revenue was $21.2 billion, up 18% year over year. This reflects the impact of FX. In terms of the revenue detail, Google sites revenue was $14.9 billion in the quarter, up 20% year over year, and up 14% sequentially, notwithstanding currency headwinds.

Year-on-year growth reflects substantial strength in Mobile Search due to ongoing improvement in ad formats and delivery. As I mentioned previously, we also saw the benefits of consumers' greater use of mobile for shopping during this holiday season.

YouTube revenue continues to grow at a very significant rate, driven primarily by video advertising across TrueView and Google Preferred. Network revenue was $4.1 billion, up 7% year on year and up 12% sequentially, continuing to reflect the strong growth of programmatic, offset by the traditional network businesses.

Other revenue for Google was $2.1 billion, up 24% year over year and up 20% sequentially. Given the geographic mix of our Play business, FX also had an impact on other revenue. Year-over-year performance was driven by Play, as well as continued strong growth in Cloud and Apps.

Finally, on monetization, as a reminder, these metrics similarly are affected by currency movements. Aggregate paid clicks grew 31% year over year and 17% sequentially. Aggregate CPCs were down 13% year over year and 5% sequentially.

In terms of the drivers, within sites, paid clicks were up 40% year over year and up 22% sequentially. Sites CPCs were down 16% year over year and down 8% sequentially. The movement in Google sites, paid clicks and CPCs primarily reflects the continued growth in YouTube TrueView.

Network paid clicks were up 2% year over year and up 1% sequentially. Network CPCs were down 8% year over year and up 7% sequentially. Total traffic acquisition costs were $4.1 billion, or 21% of total advertising revenue, up 14% sequentially, and up 12% year over year.

As a reminder, the sites TAC line in our earnings release includes the TAC that we paid to search distribution partners for distributing Google Search as distinct from their own branded search. Operating income excluding SBC was $8 billion, up 28% versus last year for an operating margin of 38%. Google stock-based compensation totaled $1.3 billion for the quarter, up 18% year over year.

Operating income reflecting the impact of SBC was $6.8 billion, up 30% versus last year, and the operating margin was 32%. CapEx for the quarter was $1.8 billion, reflecting investments in data center construction, production equipment and facilities. Full year 2015 Google revenues were $74.5 billion, operating income excluding SBC was $28 billion, operating income including the impact of SBC was $23.4 billion, and CapEx was $8.8 billion.

Turning to Other Bets financials. Other Bets includes efforts such as all we are doing with Fiber, Verily, Calico, Nest, self-driving cars and our incubation activities in X. As discussed previously with respect to Other Bets, we're focused on optimizing resources across this portfolio in the near term with the objective of maximizing Alphabet's long-term value creation.

For the full year 2015, Other Bets revenue was $448 million, up 37% versus last year. Reported revenue for Other Bets was primarily generated by Nest, Fiber, and Verily. As noted previously, the majority of efforts within the Other Bets are pre-revenue.

On a full year basis, operating loss, excluding SBC, was $3.1 billion. As previously noted, these results reflect the impact of project milestones established several years ago. Including the impact of SBC, operating loss was $3.6 billion.

Other Bets CapEx was $869 million for the full year, primarily reflecting investment in our Fiber business. Let me conclude with some comments about our continuing transformation of Alphabet.

As Larry articulated in the 2013 founders letter, and then again when announcing the creation of Alphabet, incrementalism in technology leads to irrelevance over time because change tends to be revolutionary, not evolutionary. This belief was the impetus for our organizational structure, which enhances focus on opportunities within Google and across Alphabet, while also pushing our leadership to extend the frontier that we are addressing.

Consistent with the move to Alphabet, we expanded transparency internally regarding the expenses and CapEx required in each business, which benefited our 2016 budgeting process and capital allocation decision making. As part of this process, we established technical and business targets for a number of the businesses to set the appropriate pace of investment. We made necessary choices to align resources with those efforts that maximize the potential for long-term value creation, prioritizing certain efforts while making tough calls in others.

Given the fact that we are innovating in a number of exciting industries, in some areas, the optimal execution path could encourage accelerated investment. In others, we continue to receive interest in exploring partnerships or alternate approaches to commercializing our efforts.

Verily is a great example of where we formed strategic partnerships with companies like Dexcom, J&J, Novartis and Sanofi in order to accelerate our efforts. My main point here is that we remain on a journey and it is still early days. We are working diligently to build additional businesses that create long-term revenues, profits, and value.

Looking forward, a few observations. First, regarding revenue. As a reminder, the fourth quarter tends to be seasonally our strongest quarter, reflecting the benefit of the holidays. In addition, our GAAP results will continue to be affected by changes in the relative strength of the dollar.

Second, operating expenses. As I said last quarter, our priority remains revenue growth, but that doesn't give us a pass on a rigorous approach to expense management. We continue to invest in longer-term opportunities within both Google and Other Bets, consistent with our emphasis on pushing the frontier to adjacent areas and moon shots. Given the early stage nature of a number of these efforts, they're likely to require additional investment prior to generating meaningful revenues.

Notably, in many ways some of Alphabet's biggest moon shots are in Google itself. From driving the next wave of computing through machine learning, capitalizing on the shift to the cloud by enterprises, building platforms like virtual reality and pursuing the opportunities we see with the next billion users in emerging markets, you should expect Google to continue to invest in efforts to improve life for billions of people.

Third, CapEx. As we've indicated previously, the vast majority of CapEx supports Google. We view our computing capacity as a core competence and will continue to invest here given our advantages in providing efficient, secure computing to support growth in both our consumer products and services globally, as well as our cloud and apps businesses.

In Other Bets, the majority of CapEx supports the ongoing deployment of Google Fiber. We are still operating in only a few cities, but have announced plans for additional cities which we expect will be reflected in 2016 CapEx.

Fourth, our balance sheet. In 2016, we intend to align our capital structure with the Alphabet organization so that debt is held at the holding Company level. That alignment would allow us to have greater flexibility as we continue to grow, including the ability to utilize debt financing if appropriate and consistent with our changing product mix.

So my closing comment is that we saw tremendous revenue growth across our businesses and are applying discipline as we move to implement the Alphabet structure.

I will now turn the call over to Sundar.

SUNDAR PICHAI, CEO, GOOGLE INC.: Thanks, Ruth. It's great to be here to talk with you all again.

Above all, our Q4 results show the great momentum and opportunity we have in Mobile Search and across Google's range of businesses. What's most exciting is the incredible enthusiasm for our products among consumers and our partners.

Two things show this. First on our last call, I shared that six of our consumer products, Search, Android, Maps, Chrome, YouTube, and Google Play all have over 1 billion monthly active users each. I'm pleased to share that Gmail now joins those ranks, crossing that number last quarter. Of course, all of these products are very popular and continue to grow rapidly on mobile.

Second, there is incredible momentum behind the Android ecosystem and the model is working at scale. This is a group of companies with whom we have worked really hard to build strong relationships. At the center of this are Android phones and it's exciting to see the lineup of flagship devices our partners are working on this year. And there are newer areas which are showing a lot of promise.

In addition to an Android Wear partnership with New Balance and a new smart watch from our friends at Casio, over 40 car brands worldwide are bringing Android Auto to their cars. Dozens of partners are integrating Android TV and Google Cast technology into living room products launching this year.

I want to talk about two main things today. First, some thoughts on the approach we are taking to drive the next wave of innovation. And then some thoughts on our advertising business and our newer emerging businesses.

First, a few words on our approach. At Google, we've always tried to bring our unique technical strengths to areas where we think we can make a big difference, like indexing the world's information to make it discoverable.

We have focused a lot on really improving Search and Mobile and now we are investing in evolving this to actively assist our users throughout the day in smart and helpful ways. This comes thanks to our years of investments in areas like natural language processing, computer vision, Knowledge Graph and other areas. And the next wave will be powered by big advances in machine learning and artificial intelligence, an area where we believe we lead the industry.

Just last week, DeepMind published an incredible result, the first ever to master the game of Go with artificial intelligence, an amazing accomplishment, and I'm excited for the world championship in March. And in November, we open sourced TensorFlow, our new machine learning system, to help accelerate discovery and development in the field.

Machine learning is making our products smarter and more useful for people every day. It powers Smart Reply inInbox by Gmail which suggests short responses that are relevant to an incoming e-mail.

People absolutely love this feature. In fact, in just a few months, Smart Reply already makes up 10% of all mobile responses in Inbox. From image recognition in Photos, to eliminating e-mail spam, to better translation and voice recognition, our machine learning efforts are making a huge difference for people every day.

In sum, we believe we have only scratched the surface of truly being there for our users, any time, any where, across all devices, giving them the assistance they need. We are excited to make even more progress on this vision in 2016.

The second part of our approach is to make sure we are solving big problems for everyone. We believe that someone in Indonesia should get the same quality e-mail service or search results as someone in New York.

This quarter, I visited Korea, Vietnam and India to speak with partners, developers and students. It was a very inspiring trip. I even sat down at a local coffee shop with Dong Nguyen, the creator of the popular Flappy Bird game, which has inspired Vietnam's growing community of developers and startups to think hard about how to create worldwide hits.

From providing Internet access in India's railway stations to making Chromebooks available throughout the region, it reinforced what a huge opportunity we have to help the next billion users come online and to have great experiences with the whole Internet once they are there. That's why creating open platforms that anyone can build on is core to Google's DNA, from Chrome to Android to Brillo to our latest virtual reality efforts.

It's still incredibly early innings for virtual reality as a platform and Cardboard is just the first step, but we are excited by the progress we have seen. Our partners have shipped over 5 million Google Cardboard viewers and we recently teamed up with the New York Times on a virtual reality experience in which over 1 million Times subscribers received Cardboard.

And since launching in September, the Expeditions Pioneer Program has helped more than 500,000 students travel to places like the bottom of the sea or the surface of Mars. Beyond these early efforts, you'll see a lot more from us and our partners in 2016.

Now turning to the trends and highlights that we're seeing across our advertising business, as well as some of the newer areas. It's hard to believe that AdWords just celebrated its 15th birthday. Just like Google Search, and the computing devices we all use now, the product is largely unrecognizable from the first version that launched in 2000. But the key value proposition remains unchanged.

Google helps advertisers reach the right customer at precisely the right micro moment, when they're looking to buy something, go somewhere, know something or do something. Mobile is really helping us making these connections for marketers. As Ruth mentioned, Mobile Search was particularly strong in the fourth quarter.

This holiday season we found that shopping moments replaced shopping marathons. Shoppers turned to their mobile devices to purchase gifts online in spare moments throughout the day all season long, and marketers turned to our mobile ad offerings to reach those customers. And people are actively buying products when searching on mobile.

Our research those that 30% of all online shopping purchases now happen on mobile phones. In fact, in the US looking just at product listing ads, revenue from mobile phones exceeded desktop on Thanksgiving, Black Friday, and through the weekend. Not only were people using mobile ads to shop online, they also used their phones to find the best products and prices in stores around them.

Our local inventory ads helps people see if a product they are looking for is in stock at a retailer nearby. Marketers at Lowe's and Target find them useful because they can measure the foot traffic that their search ads drove. In fact, thanks to local inventory ads, Target reported millions of incremental store visits in the week leading up to Christmas.

We also continue to see great success in driving app downloads. Our app promotion offerings like universal app campaigns, which helped marketers easily run campaigns in Google Play, YouTube, Search and across our display network, are getting great traction and delivering results for our advertisers. We are now seeing a trend of advertisers moving their app install budgets to Google.

Now moving to video. People watch hundreds of millions of hours on YouTube every day and it continues to be a must have for all brand advertisers. Not only does YouTube on mobile reach more 18 to 49-year-olds than any cable network in the US, but the time people spent watching YouTube in the living room more than doubled in 2015.

Brands turn to YouTube to inspire and engage potential customers. And with our recently launched shoppable TrueView ads, marketers like Michael Kors can connect the dots between inspiration and purchase. And it is brands of all sizes. In fact, over the last two years the number of small and medium-sized businesses advertising on YouTube has doubled. We also continue to expand measurement options for marketers on YouTube to help them better understand the effectiveness of their ad spend.

In addition to our own measurement tools, we recently introduced support for third party viewability vendors on YouTube. YouTube is also a powerful platform for creators. Today, any creator can upload a video to YouTube and get discovered by over 1 billion people around the world. That global exposure has allowed YouTube and Google to pay out over $3 billion to the record industry to date.

We are also investing in the future of video. You can now watch VR videos on YouTube and content creators can now film in new YouTube spaces in Paris and Mumbai. Between incredibly strong viewership growth, the move of advertising budgets to digital video, great new features, as well as the successful rollouts of YouTube Music and our YouTube Red subscription offering, I couldn't be more excited about the prospects for YouTube in the years ahead.

In programmatic video and display, we continue to see strong momentum. More marketers and publishers used programmatic automated ad buying and tools through our DoubleClick platform this holiday season than ever before. Programmatic video impressions doubled compared to the holiday season last year. And in the week leading up to Black Friday, more than 60% of programmatic impressions came from mobile devices.

Lastly, I'll discuss some of our newer business areas where we continue to see tremendous potential. Google Play, our hub for digital content, continues to see great momentum. In 2015, spend per buyer in the Play store grew by more than 30% globally compared to 2014. We had particularly strong growth in this area in countries like Brazil, India, Indonesia, and Mexico, thanks to continued investments in payments capabilities.

On hardware, as you know, last quarter we launched the Nexus 5X and Nexus 6P in more than 30 countries. They are truly great examples of the best that Android can offer and have gotten great reviews. And the adoption of Chromebooks continues to gain a ton of momentum, particularly in education.

Before I wrap up, I want to share some thoughts on our Cloud and Apps group. Public cloud services are a natural place for us so we established a business unit late last year to take full advantage of the opportunity.

I'm excited that Diane Greene, a highly respected industry vet, joined to lead it. As you know, Google pioneered the cloud at scale. Our data centers have handled the workload of Google's own products from Search to YouTube for 17 years. We are able to take that infrastructure and computing power and optimize it for all customers.

Our data centers, infrastructure, machine learning and premium data services are leaders in the cloud space, as is our price to performance ratio. And we are now able to bring this to bear just as the movement to cloud has reached a tipping point. Businesses now see that the easiest to use, most price effective and secureinfrastructure can best be obtained through the major public cloud providers.

Google Cloud platform is already used by more than 4 million applications and we recently introduced a new way to purchase and use virtual machines called custom machine types, so that clients can tailor their purchases based on the memory they need to get the best possible cost and performance.

Our business collaboration and productivity suite, Google Apps, now incorporates the best of Google's new technologies like machine learning and natural language processing. Our adoption now extends from large healthcare providers to retailers to government.

Last quarter, Catholic Health Initiatives, the nation's second largest non-profit health system, with more than 100,000, employees announced it has moved to Google Apps. There's great buzz at Google around this area and we continue to heavily ramp up investment here.

I want to say thank you to all of the Googlers around the world for their amazing work, from cloud computing, digital video, and the mobile revolution, to machine learning, virtual reality and helping the next billion get online, Google has a front row seat on the trends that will define computing in the coming years. There is truly no more exciting place to come to work every day.

With that, I'll turn it back over to Ruth.

RUTH PORAT: Thank you, Sundar. We will now take your questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: Thank you.

(Operator Instructions)

And our first question comes from Carlos Kirjner from Bernstein. Your line is now open. Please go ahead.

CARLOS KIRJNER, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & CO.: Hello. Thank you for taking my questions. I have a couple. First, Sundar, do you believe there's a non-trivial chance of Google and the DeepMind team achieving strong AI in the next five years or so?

And, secondly, on your revenues, can you tell us whether you feel the drivers of sites revenue growth and what seems to be an acceleration have legs and are more like improving user experience and advertising returns and less like increasing ad loads which one could argue have limited headway? Thank you.

SUNDAR PICHAI: Thanks, Carlos. I'll answer the first one, and turn it over to Ruth on the second. On AI, we are, obviously, seeing incredible progress in this field. We make great strides and we start taking it for granted and look to the years ahead. It's always tough to predict what happens over a five-year time frame, but I do see us making significant strides.

Even a year ago, I wouldn't have predicted that we would be in a strong position to mount a serious challenge to the world champion in Go this year. Looking at the pace of progress, I think we will have AI in a form in which it benefits a lot of users in the coming years, but I still think it's early days and this is a long-term investment for us.

RUTH PORAT: And then on sites revenue, what the results reflect is product strength, geographic breadth and obviously, the added backdrop of an active holiday season with the sites revenue up 20% year-on-year, notwithstanding the currency impact. The way we look at it is we've got extraordinary capability and strength in Search and then ongoing innovation across the platform. As we talked about last quarter, we did benefit from a change made in Q3 in ad format with respect to Mobile Search and we do continue to benefit from that change.

Mobile Search growth was the biggest driver again this quarter. And then in terms of YouTube, the momentum continues, the story continues to be about strong growth in video advertising, TrueView and Google Preferred as distinct from display on YouTube. And then just to round it out, desktop search remains a solid contributor, as well.

CARLOS KIRJNER: Thank you.

RUTH PORAT: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Thank you. And our next question comes from Eric Sheridan from UBS. Your line is now open. Please go ahead.

ERIC SHERIDAN, ANALYST, UBS: Thanks for taking the questions. Maybe two on margins now that we have the new disclosure, and thanks for all of that information. With core Google, we saw a very nice operating margin improvement 2015 versus 2014. Wanted to know if we could get a little bit of color of what drove that, whether it was incremental revenue, pricing, cost efficiency, how you sort of think about what drove that?

And the opposite for Other Bets, clearly a bigger loss in 2015 versus 2014, maybe a little bit of color on the volatility, as you called it out, of how that might develop over time? Thank you.

RUTH PORAT: Certainly. Starting with Other Bets, as I said in my prepared remarks, we're at the beginning of a journey with the creation of Alphabet and breaking this out into the segments is a meaningful step. As you look at some of the numbers, the reason I said it's more instructive to look at annual or rolling 12 months is that there can be some lumpy things on a quarterly basis, but we're continuing to invest across the businesses as we talked about.

So that would explain the 2014, 2015 trend here; it just underscores that we are investing in the business. We've made some tough choices, and as I said, in terms of you how we're allocating across the various businesses, but an important area for us and tried to give you the sizing here in the segment information. And then in terms of overall Google, we're continuing to invest there, as well.

We're investing quite meaningfully, as I previously said, the 70-20-10 model is an instructive framework that Larry has articulated for a long time. And as I tried to stress in my opening comments, we're looking to push the frontier both within Google and Other Bets. Ongoing innovation is key to all that we're doing in Google and it's benefiting users in the ecosystem broadly. So you're continuing to see us invest there and notwithstanding that you see the results that you have here today.

OPERATOR: Thank you. And our next question comes from Heather Bellini from Goldman Sachs. Your line is now open. Please go ahead.

HEATHER BELLINI, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Great. Thank you. Sundar, thank you for the color on your initiatives with the cloud and we're all very excited about Diane Greene's hiring.

I was wondering if you could share with us when you're having conversations with corporate customers over the last 12 months, what were the biggest areas of change, or things that they said Google needed to work on in order to win over their cloud business versus, say, them choosing to go with an AWS or an Azure? Can you talk to us about how that change might progress and how we might see that filter through in 2016? Thank you.

SUNDAR PICHAI: Thanks, Heather. I'm very excited to have Diane here, as well. We are already getting significant traction. It's a strongly growing business for us and we plan to invest significantly in 2016.

It will be one of our major investment areas. In terms of talking to customers, first of all, as I said earlier, the cloud platform is now already used and trusted by over 4 million applications. And a lot of it is about making sure we are very seriously committed to this space, which we are, and in terms of wanting -- there's a breadth of feature requirements, and so we've been carefully taking customer feedback and addressing all those needs. And as time goes by, I think we are getting very competitive.

We have natural advantages in doing this, but we also need to make sure we address all the feature needs and that's what we've been focused on. I think we are at a point now where the product is ready to be used at scale, and so I expect to get significant traction in 2016.

HEATHER BELLINI: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Thank you. And our next question comes from Mark Mahaney from RBC Capital Markets. Your line is now open. Please go ahead.

MARK MAHANEY, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Sundar, could you talk a little about -- provide any milestones for autonomous vehicles and Nest, they're two of the Other Bets that we're particularly intrigued by here. I know they're very long-term bets. The milestones that you've seen that kind of give you confidence in the forward direction of those businesses. Thank you.

RUTH PORAT: I'll take that. Those are two of the businesses that are, as we call them, Other Bets. Look, on self-driving cars, we have an extraordinary tech team. We've been working on it for many years.

The focus is developing technology with a real emphasis on safety and understanding what it takes to build and operate fully autonomous vehicles. We continue to make great progress. We've now driven 1.3 million miles with important data regarding safety and utility and that's what we're really focused on. We've got prototypes on streets in two cities.

So we're continuing to execute against that and continuing to build it out. And then on Nest, we have now more than 14,000 developers who have joined the Works with Nest program, enabling them to connect with Nest products through the cloud. The team refreshed the entire product portfolio in 2015. That resulted in very strong year-over-year and quarter-over-quarter revenue growth, and again, similarly, they're just executing against that business plan.

MARK MAHANEY: Thank you, Ruth.

RUTH PORAT: Thanks, Mark.

OPERATOR: Thank you. And our next question comes from Justin Post from Bank of America Merrill Lynch. Your line is now open. Please go ahead.

JUSTIN POST, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Thank you. Ruth, I wonder if the you could give us a little more detail on the US acceleration? It's been pretty strong four quarters in a row. Is that YouTube and Search?

Any more detail on that would really be helpful, if those individual businesses have accelerated. And then on the Other Bets business, clearly -- and you've mentioned milestones a couple times. The losses have really increased over the last two quarters. Could you share any of those milestones with us? Thank you.

RUTH PORAT: Sure. So starting with the US, I think the main point is that we've had meaningful growth in all geographies, reflecting the product strength and the added tailwind of the holiday season. And looking forward, we would expect typical seasonal patterns to hold to Q4. As you know well, it tends to be our strongest quarter.

Specifically on the US, that as we talked about last quarter, really reflects the diversity of our products here. Each is doing well. Mobile growth, as both Sundar and I talked about, was the key driver yet again. But YouTube and programmatic continue to deliver strong growth, and that translates into the results that you saw for the US. Obviously, we had a nice lift from retail, no surprise given the holiday season.

But I think simply put, it's the diversity doing a lot across a lot of different products. And then in terms of the milestones and your question regarding Other Bets, as I mentioned in opening comments, results this quarter were affected by project milestones. Those milestones were established several years ago, and that's why I called out that it could be lumpy on a quarterly basis and why we look at kind of year over rolling 12 months and not going to break it out in more detail than that.

As Larry said when we announced Alphabet, it's an exciting new chapter. It is about getting more ambitious things done. We're doing that in a framework to ensure we are disciplined with our resources. This was just calling out a milestone established some time ago.

JUSTIN POST: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Thank you. And our next question comes from Stephen Ju from Credit Suisse. Your line is now open. Please go ahead.

STEPHEN JU, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Thank you. Sundar, you just called out Gmail as the latest among your products to reach 1 billion users. I guess at this point you're explicitly monetizing Search, YouTube and Gmail to some degree, while some of the other products maybe they're a bit more nascent are still not monetized or under monetized it seems. Big picture as you look at the next billion users who are to come online and use your product, are you in any hurry to begin monetization at all?

And, Ruth, I think since you came on board CapEx is down basically every quarter. Granted fourth quarter of 2014 had the discretionary real estate purchase in there, but in your budgeting process for 2016 is the nature of what you're going to be spending money on changing much at all for core Google? And in regards to the CapEx for the Other Bets being primarily for Fiber, it seems like there's 6 upcoming cities and 11 potential cities. What is the greenlighting process for whether a city gets considered or not? Thanks.

SUNDAR PICHAI: I take a very long-term view towards this. When we look at the scale of mobile, for the first time in our lifetimes, I think we have a platform which is going to reach one day the entirety of the world's population. It will be over 5 billion users.

From our standpoint, core to our mission, we want to be in a position where we are helping users throughout the day. We are assisting users with their core information needs across all our products. And I think if you do that well, a lot of that information is commercial and hence our monetization works effectively as well as you've seen this year. And so very focused on long term, building that user experience to be assisting users and that's the framework with which we think about it.

RUTH PORAT: And then in terms of CapEx, you noted the important difference on a year-over-year basis, a couple of sizable real estate items as part of our facilities expansion that we called out last year, on top of continued investment in our technical infrastructure. But really to the heart of your question, looking ahead for 2016, we do expect to see accelerated investment in CapEx and that's to support both Google and Other Bets.

As we often talk about, we view our technical infrastructure as a key strategic asset for the Company. We have terrific scale and efficiency, and the team has done an extraordinary job innovating to achieve efficiencies following a period of heavier investment in 2014. So we're now delivering about three times the compute power for the same amount of power or dollars we did five years ago, and that's an important point because it explains some of the slower CapEx in 2015.

But given our commitment to have the most potent infrastructure, we do expect to increase CapEx in 2016. And for Google, that is intended to continue to support growth in our consumer products and services globally, as well as all that we're doing for our enterprise clients, as Sundar has already talked about. So that CapEx in both areas there.

And then in terms of Fiber and what we're doing more broadly in Other Bets, Fiber will continue to be, we expect, the biggest consumer. And again, you identified the driver of it. It obviously, increases as we execute in a growing number of cities. One of the main things that also affected 2015 is the rollout was really measured as we worked to enhance the construction process and efficiency, doing things like developing relationships with cities and establishing protocol with construction partners. But we have more cities announced and, obviously, as we execute on those that takes more CapEx, as well.

STEPHEN JU: Thank you.

RUTH PORAT: Thanks.

OPERATOR: Thank you. And our next question comes from Douglas Anmuth from JPMorgan. Your line is now open. Please go ahead.

DOUGLAS ANMUTH, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Thanks for taking the questions. Two things. First, Sundar, if you could talk a little about YouTube? It's been several quarters now where you've talked about the mix shift toward true TrueView ads kind of bringing down the average CPC for sites. But can you talk about the trend that you're seeing there more on a like-for-like basis and whether in theory that should tighten up more relative to search ads going forward?

And then, secondly, Ruth, on the core Google business we've seen roughly 300 basis points of margin expansion here over the last year or so. I know you're talking, obviously, about the investments around cloud and machine learning. Do you think there is still potential there for profitability to improve in that segment? Thanks.

RUTH PORAT: Well, let me start first on YouTube monetization. There's really no change from my comment last quarter. YouTube had very healthy revenue growth, again, driven by growth in TrueView and other video ads, but the monetization story is still evolving. It's still early innings and we're focused on the opportunity to get larger offline budgets moved to YouTube. Given the level of user engagement globally and the compelling nature of demographics it does remain a very attractive platform.

In the near term, given the growth in viewership, YouTube TrueView CPC pricing is expected to continue to affect our overall sites monetization mix. And then in terms of Google and margin outlook, I think, is really what you're getting at. I'll go back to my prior comment. What we achieved here by pulling out the two pieces is providing, obviously, greater visibility into what we're investing within the Other Bets, but want to underscore that we continue to invest in Google.

We're in early innings in many areas, and I already referenced back to the framework we used which is to continue to push the frontier within Google, as well to adjacent areas. You named one. We've talked about it on this call. It's very important, Cloud and Apps, and all that we're looking to invest there.

But we're doing more than that. It's also the moon shot areas, it's virtual reality, and other areas. And these are exciting early stage efforts we do expect we'll be in a position to discuss in greater detail over time. I'll let you estimate the short-term impact, but we believe the investment is really important as we're enhancing the long-term potential for Google and continuing to really enrich the ecosystem.

DOUGLAS ANMUTH: Okay, thank you.

OPERATOR: Thank you. And our next question comes from Brian Nowak from Morgan Stanley. Your line is now open. Please go ahead.

BRIAN NOWAK, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Thanks for taking my questions. I have two. Just to go back to the YouTube comments you made, the progress in the living rooms and the progress of YouTube Red, can you just talk a little bit about how you think potentially going into more original scripted, longer form content, or even licensed longer-form content to go after an even larger share of offline ad budgets?

And then, secondly, on the Rest-of-World, can you just talk about what you're seeing in the emerging market CPCs on a constant currency basis? How big is that gap now between the emerging markets in the US, and how do you think about closing that longer term? Thanks.

SUNDAR PICHAI: Let me answer the YouTube question first. On YouTube, we have great momentum. We have over 1 billion users watching hundreds of millions of hours, and in fact, 80% of YouTube's views are from outside of the US. It's been an incredible year where I feel the team is on fire, focusing on launching YouTube Red, YouTube Music, and as you saw at Sundance a big push on YouTube originals, with a focus from our top creators, to create exclusive content for YouTube Red users.

And so I'm really excited about all the new investments we are doing there and users are responding very positively, and so I think it's going to be an exciting 2016 for YouTube.

RUTH PORAT: And then in the Rest-of-World, it's already growing at a high rate off a large base and we're really pleased with the ongoing progress there. In addition to mobile, we benefited from Play and our universal app campaigns, as Sundar said, we're continuing to invest meaningfully in Rest-of-World. We view it as a very sizable opportunity, bringing the next 4 billion online and all the opportunities there. So that's really the main focus for us at this point is continuing to build out availability, access and products for the Rest-of-World.

BRIAN NOWAK: Thanks.

OPERATOR: Thank you. And our next question comes from Paul Vogel from Barclays. Your line is now open. Please go ahead.

PAUL VOGEL, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Great. Thanks. Just two questions. One, just going back to the CPCs real quickly, if we were to sort of normalize out both TrueView and currency, I'm just wondering any comments on how core Search is doing and just how core Mobile Search is doing from a pricing standpoint?

And then, second, just on the CapEx side, I'm just sort of curious how you think about utilization across all of your products, and are we sort of -- you, obviously, spent a lot in the past. Are we kind of at a good spot? Do we need to spend ahead or is there a lot of capacity that isn't being utilized right now? Thank you.

RUTH PORAT: So in terms of CPCs, other than YouTube, I guess the other comments to add are in the fourth quarter, we did see an impact from the ad format changes that we talked about in the third quarter. That also increased our overall click base and we believe this click growth is a positive indicator of ads that are proving to be more relevant to users. In other words, the CPC trend reflects the fact that the denominator is growing faster than the numerator, but we do view that as a long-term upside opportunity for both CPCs and revenue.

So mobile continues to be very healthy. I tried to indicate in my opening comments, and Sundar did as well, and similarly desktop growth remains very healthy. In terms of CapEx, so I guess the main point is we do expect that it will be increasing in 2016. I've already addressed that.

I think part of it's -- you got in the way you asked the question -- which is we've achieved efficiencies after this heavy spend in 2014, and that's where the team was very focused as we ramped up spend. And then we've been focused on what can we -- how to extract the most efficiency here, and that as I said, does explain some of the slower CapEx in 2015 and the reason we've been very focused on indicating that it will be increasing to support all that we're doing.

It's quite a bit of requirements on both the Google side and what we're doing in Other Bets and Fiber, specifically. So, part of it was the 2014 spend and the digestion in 2015.

PAUL VOGEL: Great. Thank you very much.

RUTH PORAT: Thanks.

OPERATOR: Thank you. And our next question comes from Ross Sandler from Deutsche Bank. Your line is now open. Please go ahead.

ROSS SANDLER, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Great, thanks. I just had two questions for Sundar. Most of them have been answered already. But on the UK, Sundar, it's now growing over 20% despite a tougher comp, and that's the most mature digital advertising economy globally, and we haven't been over 20% at Google for three-plus years.

So is this mostly a function of Mobile Search hitting its stride? Is there anything else that's driving that growth up? And what do you think that says about the maturity, or lack thereof, of digital advertising globally as we look at all other regions? And then you also made the comment during the prepared remarks that ARPU for Play, I believe you're referring to Play, is up 30%.

Is that on a like-for-like geo basis? And is that a function of the personalization efforts that Google's been doing within Play, or is that more a function of just the overall content flowing through Play evolving and maturing? Thank you.

SUNDAR PICHAI: On the first, when I think about growth, you're right, and as Ruth mentioned earlier too, Mobile Search, YouTube, they're all working well. But I would take into account overall a secular shift to mobile, how users are adopting mobile, and on top of that, I think we are working hard to serve our users well on mobile. So it's a combination of all of that and I think the model is working well.

On Play, to be very clear, spend per buyer is up 30% and that's globally. And it's a function of, as you pointed out, I think we have made good strides in terms of personalizing the experience for each user and I think that's borne fruit. But a lot of it is also improving our ability to handle payments for users and developers and to do that better through time at a global scale.

OPERATOR: Thank you. Our last question comes from Mark May from Citi. Your line is now open. Please go ahead.

MARK MAY, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Thank you. I think they're both for Ruth. I just wanted to make sure I was interpreting your comments correctly earlier. You talked about looking at the trend line on a trailing 12-month basis at the Other Bets losses to get a sense of the trend line.

I think operating losses roughly doubled on a year-on-year basis on a trailing basis. Is that sort of the trajectory that you're wanting us to think about going forward? And then more of a housekeeping question around Other Bets. Can you just describe what you mean by project milestones and maybe provide an example of that?

And then on the Search business, can you talk about what sort of progress that you've seen in the auction in terms of closing the gap between the average mobile CPC and desktop? Thanks.

RUTH PORAT: So the trend, when I talked about looking at an annual or rolling 12-month to assess trends it was really to say that there can be idiosyncrasies on a quarterly basis that are -- so it leads to a lumpiness, just again, given how early stage these are, and any particular event in one or more companies can affect the overall numbers. It was not intended to say take the 2014 over 2015 and extrapolate, far from it.

The budgeting process that we went through was a very rigorous process, as I said in my opening comments. We prioritized some; we made some tough calls. But very much with a view of having a very disciplined envelope around the way we are looking at the opportunities we have across the Other Bets. And so we looked at them, again, opportunity by opportunity.

In terms of the milestones, they can really vary for a number of things, but it would be linked to anything at the Company, which in our view, whether it's technically or from a business perspective, advances the development of the Company, the value of the Company, and we're not going to go into detail on each one of the specific companies.

I think your second question was around Search in terms of the monetization trends in Search. And I think I've already addressed that one, as well. When I first provided color on desktop and mobile the point is really about the health of both of them. And as I've already said here on this call, mobile continues to outperform, desktop growth remains healthy, and with all the comments that both Sundar and I made with respect to mobile it should be clear that mobile Search revenue was up significantly this quarter.

OPERATOR: Thank you. I you would now like to turn the call back to Ellen West for any further remarks.

ELLEN WEST: Thank you, everyone, for joining us today, and we look forward to talking to you again on our first quarter 2016 call. Thank you and good afternoon.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for participating in today's conference. This does conclude today's program. You may all disconnect. Everyone, have a great day.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
goog : Alphabet Inc.
   IN
iappsp : Cloud Computing | i8394 : Computer Services | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | i8396 : Diversified Holding Companies
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Financial Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | uk : United Kingdom | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020160202ec2100335
  


 HD
 Q3  2015 Alphabet Inc Earnings Call - Final
   WC
9,094 words
   PD
22 October 2015
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©015 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Alphabet Inc. third-quarter 2015 earnings conference call.

   TD
(Operator Instructions)

As a reminder this call is being recorded. I would now like to introduce your host for today's conference, Ellen West, Vice President Investor Relations. Please go ahead.

ELLEN WEST, VP OF IR, ALPHABET INC.: Thank you. Good afternoon, everyone, and welcome to Alphabet's conference call on Google's third-quarter 2015 earnings. With us today are Ruth Porat and Sundar Pichai.

As you know, we distribute our earnings release through our investor relations website located at investor.google.com. Please refer to our IR website for our earnings releases as well as the supplementary slides that accompany the call. This call is also being webcast from investor.google.com. A replay of the call will be available on our website later today.

Now let me quickly cover the Safe Harbor. Some of the statements that we make today may be considered forward-looking, including statements regarding Alphabet's future investments, our long-term growth and innovation, the expected performance of our businesses, and our expected level of capital expenditures. These statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially.

For more information, please refer to the risk factors discussed in our form 10-K for 2014 filed with the SEC. Any forward-looking statements that we make are based on assumptions as of today. And we undertake no obligation to update these statements as a result of new information or future events.

During this call we will present both GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures. A reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP measures is included in today's earnings press release. The press release and an accompanying investor presentation are available on our website at investor.google.com.

And now I'll turn the call over to Ruth.

RUTH PORAT, CFO, ALPHABET INC.: Thanks, Ellen. We turned in a strong performance in the third quarter, notwithstanding continued meaningful currency headwinds. The key highlight this quarter was the substantial growth of our mobile search revenue, complemented by ongoing strong contributions from YouTube and our programmatic business.

I will first give you a summary of the quarter followed by specific financial details, and conclude with comments regarding our upcoming move to segment reporting. Sundar will then review the business and product highlights of the quarter, after which we will take your questions.

Beginning with a summary of our financial performance, total revenue was $18.7 billion, up 13% year over year and up 5% sequentially. As a result of the ongoing strengthening of the US dollar, we realized a negative currency impact on our revenues of $1.6 billion, or $1.3 billion after the benefit of our hedging program. Holding currency constant to prior periods our total revenue grew 21% year over year and 7% sequentially.

On a GAAP basis, operating profit was $4.7 billion and the operating margin was 25%. On a non-GAAP basis operating profit was $6.1 billion and the operating margin was 33%. GAAP operating income was up 26% versus last year and GAAP net income from continuing operations was up 36% year over year. As a reminder, the year-on-year increases reflect a non-cash impairment charge of $378 million in the third quarter of 2014.

Non-GAAP operating income was up 15% year over year and non-GAAP net income was up 19% year over year. GAAP earnings per diluted share were $5.73. Non-GAAP earnings per diluted share were $7.35. As detailed in the earnings slides on our IR website, stock-based compensation totaled $1.4 billion, up 14% year over year and up 27% sequentially.

With respect to stock-based compensation, the increase reflects the fact that our annual equity refresh grants were made in the third quarter, as well as headcount growth. Headcount increased 16% versus last year and 5% versus 2Q 2015. Sequential growth reflects typical seasonality with new grads starting, the vast majority of whom are engineers and product managers.

Let me now turn to key elements of our financial statements. Starting with our primary revenue sources, Google Sites revenue was $13.1 billion, up 16% year over year and up 6% sequentially notwithstanding currency headwinds. Year-on-year and quarter-on-quarter growth reflect substantial strength in mobile search due to ongoing improvement in ad formats and delivery to better address how consumers use their mobile devices.

YouTube revenue continues to grow at a significant rate, with growth driven primarily by video advertising across TrueView and Google Preferred. Network revenue was $3.7 billion, up 4% year on year and up 2% sequentially, continuing to reflect the significant growth of programmatic, offset by the traditional network businesses.

Other revenue was 1.9 billion, up 11% year over year and up 11% sequentially. Given the geographic mix of our play business FX also had an impact on other revenue. Year-over-year growth was driven by Google For Work, including Cloud, as well as continued strong growth in Play. Both were offset by the absence of revenues included in 3Q 2014 from a licensing agreement and lower hardware sales as we reach the end of lifecycles for certain Chromecast and Nexus devices.

Next, let me discuss revenues by geography, which will highlight the impact currency headwinds continue to have on our non-US business. US revenue was up 19% year over year to $8.8 billion, and up 9% versus Q2. UK revenue was up 10% year over year to $1.8 billion, and up 7% sequentially.

In fixed FX terms the UK grew 18% year over year and 7% quarter over quarter. Rest of world revenue was up 7% versus last year to $8.1 billion, and up 2% versus Q2. In fixed FX terms revenues were up 23% year over year and up 5% sequentially. The acceleration in US and UK growth in particular reflect the growth in mobile search.

Finally, on monetization, as a reminder these metrics, similarly, are affected by currency movements. Aggregate paid clicks grew 23% year over year and 6% sequentially. Aggregate CPCs were down 11% year over year and 1% sequentially.

In terms of the drivers, within Google Sites paid clicks were up 35% year over year and up 7% sequentially. Google Sites CPCs were down 16% year over year and down 2% sequentially. The movement in Google Sites paid clicks and CPCs primarily reflects the continued growth in YouTube TrueView.

Network paid clicks were down 5% year over year and flat sequentially, reflecting the impact of our ongoing policy changes designed to reduce lower quality inventory on AdSense for search, consistent with our focus on improving the user experience. Network CPCs were down 4% year over year and up 1% sequentially.

Let me now turn to expenses. Total traffic acquisition costs were $3.6 billion or 21% of total advertising revenue, essentially flat as a percentage of revenue sequentially and down slightly year over year. As a reminder the sites TAC line includes the TAC that we pay to search distribution partners for distributing Google search as distinct from their own branded search.

Non-GAAP other cost of revenues was $3.2 billion in Q3, up 16% year over year, primarily driven by costs associated with operating our data centers including depreciation, as well as content acquisition costs primarily for YouTube and Play. Non-GAAP operating expenses were $5.7 billion or 31% of revenue, up 14% year over year and up 7% versus Q2.

The increase in operating expense versus comparable periods was primarily driven by R&D expense. A breakout of individual operating expense lines is available on our earnings slides. Other income and expense was $183 million. The effective tax rate was 19% for the third quarter.

Turning now to CapEx and operating cash flow, CapEx for the quarter was $2.4 billion, reflecting investments in production equipment, data center construction and facilities. Operating cash flow was $6 billion with free cash flow of $3.6 billion.

Finally, turning to cash, we ended the quarter with a cash balance of approximately $73 billion, of which approximately $42 billion, or 58%, is held overseas. As we announced today, our Board has authorized us to commence a repurchase of our Class C capital stock of up to $5,099,019,513.59. This decision is consistent with our overall capital management framework and complements a disciplined capital allocation program. Our primary uses of capital will, of course, remain CapEx and M&A across the breadth of our businesses.

So, now let me conclude. Starting in the fourth quarter, with our move to segment reporting, we intend to provide additional detail for Google on the one hand and all the other Alphabet businesses on the other hand. We refer to those other Alphabet businesses as Other Bets. We expect Other Bets to include, among others, access and energy, Nest, life sciences, our investment arms, and X, which is where driverless cars and certain other incubation efforts reside.

Specifically, we intend to disclose for both Google and Other Bets revenues, profitability and CapEx. By doing this we expect that you will be better able to understand how we manage the businesses including the pace and allocation of our investments. As Larry said in his CEO letter announcing Alphabet, we are focused on rigorously managing capital allocation and working to make sure each business is executing well.

With that preface, let me turn to four key themes. First, in terms of revenues, our strong revenue growth in Q3 reflects the ongoing momentum in Google, with acceleration in mobile search complemented by the strength of YouTube and programmatic. The Other Bets are earlier-stage businesses, which we believe have significant longer-term revenue potential. In the near term, the focus there is on optimizing our investments.

Second, with respect to profitability, we remain focused on managing expenses within our control, while investing to support the growth areas we have in Google and Other Bets. Segment reporting by definition provides greater insight into the profit dynamics within Alphabet.

Third, as to CapEx the vast majority to date, of course, has been to support Google where we continue to invest, given our exciting opportunities globally. At the same time CapEx in Other Bets is expected to increase through next year as we continue to execute on the growth agenda there, in particular in access and energy which contains our fiber business, among other efforts.

Fourth, our growing cash balance remains a powerful tool, giving us the flexibility to invest in the breadth of opportunities we have within Google and Other Bets, as well as to selectively pursue compelling new bets.

I will now turn the call over to Sundar, who will go into more detail regarding our business trends and products.

SUNDAR PICHAI, CEO OF GOOGLE INC., ALPHABET INC.: Thanks, Ruth. I'm glad to be here with you all today to talk about the areas we are focused on, now and in the future at Google. There's a real sense of energy and focus throughout the Company and we are seeing momentum across our businesses.

Products like Search, Android, Maps, Chrome and YouTube each have over 1 billion users already, and Google Play crossed that milestone this quarter, as well. But what's most exciting is that we are just beginning to scratch the surface.

We know that computing transforms people's lives. We have gone from the PC revolution to the Internet revolution to the mobile revolution. And 10 years from now everything will be different again in ways no one can predict.

Our vision is for Google to remain a place of incredible creativity and innovation that uses our unique technical expertise to tackle big problems and create that future. We do this arm in arm with our partners around the world.

Today I want to touch on three key areas that are important for us. First, making information accessible and useful. Then, how we are building computing platforms used by billions of people. And, lastly, how we are driving growth in our core advertising business as well as new emerging businesses.

Let's start with the first area. Google's core mission has always been to organize the world's information and make it universally accessible and useful. Search continues to be at the center of this, with people turning to search on mobile every day to find quick answers. In fact, search traffic on mobile phones has now surpassed desktop traffic worldwide.

We are also seeing strong mobile momentum in many emerging markets, like India, which is the number two country for mobile search queries behind the US. This is the result of our laser focus on helping users quickly find the right information. People just want to be able to find the information they are looking for on mobile without having to worry about whether it lives on the mobile web or within apps. Mobile app usage as well as web usage is accelerating significantly.

We have now indexed more than 100 billion deep links within third-party apps. So, if you're looking for information that lives within an app, it will surface it as a result and even give you an install link if you don't already have it. The teams have made great progress and 40% of searches now return app indexed results in the top five results.

These investments have gone well and you will continue to see us push in this area. We will also continue to improve the Google app. For instance, app developers can now build conversational voice experiences that work within the Google app. So, if you ask Google to play NPR, NPR will respond by asking if you want to pick up where you left off or catch up on the latest news.

It's also very important that we help to make the mobile web better and faster for users, both through our own products and by partnering with others. Working with over 30 publication and technology partners, we recently announced an open source initiative called Accelerated Mobile Pages to make it easy for publishers and content creators to build superfast webpages for their content. This will help make the mobile web a better, more enjoyable experience for users.

I also want to point out that our investments in machine learning and artificial intelligence are a priority for us. Machine learning has long powered things like voice search, translation and much more. And our machine learning is hard at work in mobile services like Now on Tap which quickly assist you by providing additional useful information for whatever you are doing, right in the moment, anywhere on your phone. If you're an Android user that runs Marshmallow, try it out by long pressing the home button when you are in an app -- very cool.

Another example is the Google Photos app which leverages powerful machine learning technology to help people discover, organize and share their photos. It's a great product that people love. In fact, in just a few months since we launched it at Google I/O Photos is now used by over 100 million users who have collectively uploaded more than 50 billion photos and videos.

Now, I want to talk about how we are building computing platforms that are used by billions of people. We'll continue to invest in large open ecosystems that we build with partners to reach great scale. Android is a prime example of this. And we are seeing exciting momentum on our platform. There are more than 1.4 billion 30-day active Android users around the world and we're beginning to roll out Android Marshmallow, which is our best-performing release yet.

Working with partners Huawei and LG we announced the newest devices joining our Nexus family, the Nexus 6P and Nexus 5X. They're beautiful and powerful devices that show off the latest and greatest that Android has to offer. And they've gotten tremendous reviews so far.

We also announced the Pixel C which is the first Android tablet built end to end by Google that brings together the benefits of a full-sized keyboard with the portability of a tablet. We are also creating platforms for newer areas of computing, such as Android Wear which now works with iOS as well, Android Auto, the Internet of Things platform that we unveiled at I/O, Brillo and, of course, Chrome.

Chrome also powers Chromecast, and our recent Chromecast update gave it a refreshed look and faster performance. We also introduced Chromecast Audio which lets you stream your favorite music from your phone to any set of speakers. To date we have sold over 20 million Chromecast devices and have seen over 1.5 billion taps of the cast button since we launched.

We are also seeing great momentum in our ads business. Our value proposition to marketers of all sizes is simple -- Google can help you show the right ads to the right people at the right moment.

As you've heard on these calls before, we are seeing a major shift in consumer behavior towards micro moments. These are moments of high intent when consumers are looking to find, buy or do something. They happen throughout the day, most often on mobile devices. The single biggest theme throughout our advertising business is to help small businesses, large marketers, agencies and content creators to take advantage of this mobile opportunity.

In search advertising, there's a huge amount going on. Advertisers like Dunkin' Donuts and Airbnb are turning to mobile search to capitalize on these key moments, reach customers and create engaging local experiences.

We also recently made Search ads in Google Play available to all developers, letting app developers find new customers for their app at a great price where it matters. Many smart developers are already taking advantage of this.

At Adweek we introduced Customer Match, which lets marketers reach their existing customers with customized search ads on Google.com, as well as ads on YouTube and Gmail. Of course, these are really valuable for reaching key customers at moments of high intent on mobile devices.

With the holiday season coming up, we are investing in providing great shopping experiences on mobile. We are also helping marketers understand how search ads are driving in-store sales with products like Store Visits, which uses our unique mobile location capability and is easy for any business to implement.

Moving to YouTube, every day people watch hundreds of millions of hours on YouTube. You know from the last quarterly call about the amazing momentum that YouTube has in mobile and it's largely coming from the YouTube app. The growth in mobile watch time also extends to videos featuring product reviews and information.

People turn to YouTube when they want to research, buy or fix a product. For example, mobile watch time for apparel videos has doubled this year, and videos about toys have also doubled. We see the same growth in advertising on the platform, too. And we continue to invest in building ways for marketers to reach consumers effectively, like our recently announced shopping ads for YouTube, which lets people shop directly from a video, turning any relevant video into your digital storefront.

And in programmatic video and display, the strong momentum continues. The number of advertisers using our programmatic solutions has nearly doubled in the last year and a half, and now includes over 80% of Ad Age's top 100 advertisers.

Additionally, both mobile and video impressions served on DoubleClick Bid Manager have grown more than 3.5X since last year. This is an area that's on fire for us right now, and you'll see us continue to invest in creating the best programmatic solutions for advertisers and agencies.

Before I close, I want to touch on a few of our emerging businesses where we see enormous opportunities. First, digital content. Google Play continues to be a thriving hub for our digital content business, now with over 1 billion users. And just yesterday I was really pleased that we announced YouTube Red, our YouTube subscription service, for just $9.99 a month. It enables you to see videos on YouTube without ads, watch them off-line, or keep playing videos when you lock your screen or start using another application.

Additionally, our Google for Work business is seeing tremendous growth. In the third quarter we crossed 1 million paying active customers using Google Drive at work. Cloud is also a growing area where we see great opportunity, and we are building a fantastic service that we will keep investing in.

Our momentum in the education space continues, as well, with more than 50 million Google apps for education users worldwide, and over 10 million teachers and students using Google Classroom since it launched a year ago. There are also 30,000 new Chromebooks activated in schools in the US every school day. That's more than all other devices combined.

So, to wrap up, we have tremendous new opportunities in our new and existing businesses, we are really excited by the products and platforms that we are building for people everywhere in the world, and we are passionate about the transformative power of computing to improve people's lives in the years ahead.

Thank you to everyone for your keen interest in our business. And thank you to all of the Googlers around the word for another great quarter. And with that, I will hand it back to Ruth.

RUTH PORAT: Thank you, Sundar. And we will now take your questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions)

Mark Mahaney from RBC Capital Markets

MARK MAHANEY, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Great, thanks. Two questions. Could you talk about the sustainability of the mobile search revenue growth that you see there? And is that just really being driven by finally the gapping up of mobile search pricing versus desktop pricing, or is there something else going on?

And then, Ruth, I was just trying to figure how you came up with that you're repurchase number, and I've been Googling that number a couple of times, I can see it's 26 to the e-18th of the square root of that. But outside of that, how did you come up with that particular amount of share buyback? Why not more? Why not less? Thanks.

RUTH PORAT: Thanks, Mark. Starting on the sustainability of mobile revenue growth, as I said in my opening comments revenue growth really reflects continued improvement in ad formats and delivery. And that's on top of what's a really strong industry-wide global growth in mobile usage, as you know well.

And then we regularly adjust the way we present ads. So, we expanded ad space in some queries with particularly high commercial intent to display more relevant, mobile-friendly ads. Our view is, just as we saw consumer behavior change on desktop, we are seeing the same on mobile. And as Sundar said, we continue to believe we are in very early innings here.

And then in terms of sizing, this is the way we approached it. If I take you back to the capital framework that I laid out last quarter, it's defined primarily by CapEx and M&A but also includes working capital and a buffer, as well as a potential return of capital. We remain focused on solving the biggest problems and solving them at scale, and that presents sizable potential revenue opportunities, was a key catalyst for creating Alphabet.

But these opportunities also require investment. So, the focus of our team is on prioritizing these opportunities over a multi-year period. We look out, as we are modeling that out, a number of years. And then working with the Board we reviewed our outlook, we reviewed the opportunity set, and we concluded that layering in this action at this time complements what we view as a very disciplined budgeting process while still, very importantly, providing ample capacity to pursue the growth agenda.

And then applying this framework, once we had come up with a size that we believed fits, and consistent with the way we do things around here, we decided to come up with some fun math, similar to the way we approached sizing the IPO. It sounds like you backed right into what that was. We do view it as the right action at the right time and it really is anchored in the framework.

MARK MAHANEY: Thanks, Ruth.

OPERATOR: Ross Sandler, Deutsche Bank.

ROSS SANDLER, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Thanks. I had one for Ruth and one for Sundar. Ruth, back to the mobile search question, the bear caseon Google has been the Company's ability, or lack thereof, to port the search business model from PC over to mobile. And you called out that mobile search is the key driver of acceleration in both the US and the UK. So, can you just give us a little bit more color around the volume trends you're seeing between desktop and mobile as you cross that 50% threshold that you talked about last quarter?

And then, Sundar, on the platform side, it seems like every few years new companies crop up as the next big Android OEM. It looks like it's Huawei now. It's been other companies in the past. How do you plan on getting Android to a point where all these OEMs can build successful businesses on the back of it? And any update on when Google plans to rollout the Play store in China would be helpful. Thank you

RUTH PORAT: Starting with mobile and our outlook there, clearly, as I said, mobile search revenue is up significantly, and it was an important catalyst in the quarter. But the very important thing to note, as we discussed also last quarter, is that desktop remains a solid contributor. So, we continue to have healthy growth there.

When we look, if you step back, over all Sites revenue we're firing on all cylinders. Really strong growth in mobile. Desktop's healthy and continuing to grow. And then you layer on top of it YouTube and some of the color that Sundar added there. That's really a continuation of what we talked about last quarter, as well.

SUNDAR PICHAI: On the platform side, we continue to see tremendous momentum overall on Android. In just over a year we've gone from 1 billion to 1.4 billion users. So, obviously that translates into huge opportunities for OEMs and that's what we are seeing. Especially, there are whole new markets opening up. There's the next billion users coming online in emerging markets, and businesses, enterprises, a whole opportunity for OEMs, as well. So, I think there's a lot of room ahead.

OPERATOR: Carlos Kirjner, Bernstein.

CARLOS KIRJNER, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & CO.: Thank you. I have two questions, one for Sundar and one for Ruth. Sundar, in two parts -- if you take a three-year view what are the three main milestones you think you need to reach to be successful as Google's CEO? And what do you think would be the extent of your observable consequences of achieving these milestones?

And, Ruth, in the last call you talked about the 70-20-10 framework. Can you help us understand what the 70-20-10 applies to. Is it related to operating expenses, how expenses and costs in the P&L, CapEx, R&D, management time. And is it an explicit constraint to the budgeting process? Or am I trying to read too much into something that's just a conceptual framework and a broad guideline? Thank you

SUNDAR PICHAI: Thanks, Carlos. In terms of how I think about it, I think we are fortunate to have an incredibly broad mission statement. Organizing the world's information turns out to be something that has a lot of room ahead. We are still in the early days. Especially with mobile, I think you have a computing platform that's going to reach -- it's already reached -- half the world's population, or on its way to reach the entirety of the human population in about 5 to 10 years.

So, want to stay focused on that, both from an information standpoint and a computing standpoint -- I think of them as two sides of the same coin -- and making sure we are building the right user experience for that. So, that's what I'm focused on.

RUTH PORAT: And then on 70-20-10, it's intended to be instructive and it's intended to mirror the founders' vision and really capture how we devote our resources, which for us means how do we apply effort. For me, one of the many very important statements from the founders that explains this framework is when they said in the letter years ago and repeated since, incrementalism in technology leads to irrelevance, and thus innovation is critical.

This mantra is really about pushing people to look at new areas, invest in newer areas, look for things that are adjacent -- the 20% - and even the unrelated big bets -- the 10%. It's not intended to be a specific guide to financial modeling -- I think with our move to segment reporting we look forward to giving you more information next quarter, which should be helpful there -- but directionally to talk about philosophically how do we think about our approach to the business.

CARLOS KIRJNER: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Heather Bellini, Goldman Sachs.

HEATHER BELLINI, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Great, thank you very much. This question is for Ruth. I was just wondering, given you're likely in the midst of 2016 business planning right now, can you share with us the way in which you're approaching budgeting versus maybe how it was done last year? And are there any specifics you can share with us in terms of how you're thinking about it? Thank you

RUTH PORAT: A couple of things. There's been a very strong foundation here on budgeting and the approach and setting an envelope and working very closely with business leaders on what that envelope should be. And we are in the midst of it, as I said last quarter. But emphasize, our priority remains revenue growth and that doesn't give us a pass on a rigorous approach to expense growth. That's where we're focused.

I think, really, what was very encouraging for me is there's a framework, a very strong approach to financial planning and analysis, and really building on that to make sure we have reasonable but tight envelopes so that we can have the right conversations collectively, collaboratively with our business leaders to assess how we can look at optimizing all of our resources. And that's what it really comes down to. It's looking at how to manage the rate of growth of expenses while still supporting our growth initiatives. And we'll be going into more of that as we go through our segment reporting in the fourth quarter.

HEATHER BELLINI: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Brian Nowak, Morgan Stanley.

BRIAN NOWAK, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Thanks for taking my questions. I have one on YouTube. Could you just talk to some of the qualitative drivers that are really bringing more advertising dollars onto YouTube? And then I think last quarter you mentioned the top 100 advertisers' spend was up 60% year on year on YouTube. I wonder if you could update us on that.

And the second one on search, it sounds like mobile is accelerating. Where are you now in the mobile versus desktop monetization gap? And, Sundar, how do you think about that long term? Do you see mobile being higher? Reaching equilibrium? How do you see that trending?

SUNDAR PICHAI: On the YouTube one, the shift to video is a profound medium shift, and especially in the context of mobile. And obviously users are following that. You're seeing in YouTube as elsewhere in mobile. So, advertisers are being increasingly conscious. They're being very responsive. So, we are seeing great traction there and we'll continue to see that. They are moving more of their traditional budgets to YouTube and that's where we're getting traction.

On mobile search, to me increasingly we see, we already announced that over 50% of our searches are on mobile. Mobile gives us very unique opportunities in terms of better understanding users. And over time, as we use things like machine learning, I think we can make great strides. My long-term view on this is it is as compelling or, in fact, even better than desktop, but it will take us time to get there and we are going to be focused until we get there.

BRIAN NOWAK: Thanks.

OPERATOR: Eric Sheridan, UBS.

ERIC SHERIDAN, ANALYST, UBS: Thanks for taking the question. Maybe a big picture question with respect to media distribution, media consumption, and monetizing that usage across all the platforms that you distribute media. I'm curious about the various business models you've now put in front of consumers -- subscription versus advertising versus pay per unit like on Google Play -- how you think about the pros and cons of some of those distribution models, and how you think about the need to maybe source content yourself for media distribution. Thanks.

SUNDAR PICHAI: Thanks. To me, we want to stay focused on the user experience and we want to follow what users want. So, if you take something like YouTube, we expect most users to consume YouTube the way it has been, and advertising has been a strong part of providing that content for free to those users, and it's growing very well. But we also see a need for certain users in certain scenarios, be it music or gaming or for premium content, to experience it in a different way. And we want to make sure we do that. So, we don't have a prescriptive opinion on this as much as we will provide the right user experience and follow where it goes. And that applies to Google Play, as well.

OPERATOR: Justin Post, Bank of America Merrill Lynch.

JUSTIN POST, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Thank you. Two things. Ruth, it really does seem like there's been a change in the management philosophy this year as far as expense discipline in Q2. Also have seen the disclosures and now you have the buyback announcement. Could you talk about the change there, if there has been one, and how you think about that.

And then the second thing, we are pretty focused on the cloud over here. Google, we don't have a number, it's in your other revenues. But Amazon's probably $8 billion-plus run rate, Microsoft over $1.5 billion. Just wondering if you can give us any thoughts on your cloud strategy and how you're thinking about using those really strong data center assets. Thank you.

RUTH PORAT: A couple of things. On expenses and expense management, and clearly a lot of the foundation here was laid some time ago. I think after a period of big expense build up, there was an appreciation that we needed to manage the cadence of spend. And that's what we're doing. Collectively we are locked arm in arm to make sure that there's resource prioritization. I think that's an important part of it. We have an extraordinary set of opportunities, not just within Google but across the Alphabet businesses, and we need to ensure that prioritization is a key part of all that we do.

I would note that when you're looking at some of the expenses -- operating expenses, as an example -- when we look forward to the fourth quarter, in particular, given the hardware launches that we've done here, with the Nexus, Chromecast and Pixel launches, consistent with prior device launches, we would expect higher sales and marketing. And I realize I'm getting a little more specific than your question but I think it's very important to note that there are also certain patterns to some of these.

Similarly with CapEx. CapEx has been a bit more muted here. And I indicated last quarter that we are in a bit of a digestion period. But when you look forward to 2016, we do see accelerated investment given the nature of the businesses that we are building up here. So, I want to also just make sure we keep things in perspective.

I think it's been an extraordinary experience joining this team. I think with the move to Alphabet it gives us the opportunity to then provide some greater insight into the extraordinary operating performance within Google, and break out so you can see the investments that we are doing. And we're working very tightly as a senior team here as we make that next step into this new environment in Alphabet.

SUNDAR PICHAI: On the cloud side, as you observed, it's an exceptional opportunity, I think. It just reflects a secular shift. Every business in the world is going to run on cloud eventually. So, we view it as an amazing opportunity.

we are uniquely qualified to do so. As you pointed out, we have tremendous experiences in running large-scale cloud services. And it's been only in the past two years in earnest we've been taking those assets and serving customers outside. For me, what's exciting is, as I look at new customer adoptions, we're seeing tremendous momentum. We are very competitive in each of those situations. And we are investing a lot and playing for the long term.

OPERATOR: Douglas Anmuth, JPMorgan.

DOUGLAS ANMUTH, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Thanks for taking the question. Sundar, I wanted to ask about mobile. You talked about it being greater than 50% of queries. And wanted to ask if you have a view on when that will pass 50% of clicks. And then also your thoughts on what happens to desktop pricing and demand as that happens. How do you think about the tail on the desktop business as mobile just continues to take share? Thanks.

SUNDAR PICHAI: The interesting thing we are seeing is, when we talk about mobile, mobile as a computing paradigm is eventually going to blend with what we think of as desktop today, as well. So, overall it's a shift in a computing paradigm, so it's not just form factors. So, over time we see all of this as together.

What matters to us is, as people evolve their computing paradigms, search transitions to that world. And we are the best source to provide that information. Along that line, I expect all the metrics to follow the trend. We only see all the right indicators. So, I think we are positioned for the long term well. I can't comment too much on the specifics beyond that.

DOUGLAS ANMUTH: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Ken Sena, Evercore.

KEN SENA, ANALYST, EVERCORE ISI: Thank you. I just have an ad format question, maybe just to follow up on Eric's. We noticed that there was an additional ad slot added on mobile. Can you just maybe talk through the decisioning on that. And if so, is there anything we should interpret as far as the other ad formats that have been used, too? Thank you.

RUTH PORAT: Big picture, what we're doing is looking at ways to use the mobile screen space to be as useful as possible for users. This quarter we had some important changes. And we're always focused on innovation and we are growing in a growing market. But as we've said, we're looking at how consumer behavior is changing. And just as it did on desktop, we're seeing the same on mobile. And the notion of trying to make sure we are being as useful as possible for users is a key driver here and we will continue to innovate.

KEN SENA: And maybe just one follow-up, can you say anything, then, in terms of the success or the efficiency that you're seeing in terms of the text-based mobile ads versus more of the other structured data ones like product listing ads or hotel price ads, and so forth? Thanks.

RUTH PORAT: There's probably not much to add there.

KEN SENA: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Anthony DiClemente from Nomura.

ANTHONY DICLEMENTE, ANALYST, NOMURA SECURITIES: Thanks a lot. I have two, one for Sundar and one for Ruth. Sundar, is ad blocking something that has a potential to have an impact on the business, either in the fourth quarter or longer term?

And then, Ruth, in terms of M&A, just wondering if the buyback might indicate that the Company is becoming a bit more selective around large acquisitions than it's been in prior periods of the Company's lifecycle. Thanks.

SUNDAR PICHAI: Thanks, Anthony. On the ad blocking, it's not a new phenomenon. I think it's important to understand that ads today fund almost all the services which people use, including products like Google search, Google maps, many third-party products. For publishers it represents the majority of their revenues. And I think users are okay with the contract and we need to make sure it works well.

It's also clear that there are areas where the ad experience is getting in the way. It affects performance. So, we as an industry need to collectively do all that better. So, we are going to work hard to do that. We want to make sure we transition areas like the mobile web to have better ad experiences. But overall I think we're used to this, we have seen this for a while, overwhelmingly the model works well and we expect that to continue.

RUTH PORAT: In terms of your M&A question, and I talked about how did we think of sizing the return, I started with what's really most core to us, which is continuing to focus on the biggest problems and solving them at scale, and ensuring that we are investing in those. And, as I said, that's primarily defined by, obviously the opportunity, but how do we support the growth. That's about capital expenditure and about M&A. And those are really the anchor pillars in our capital framework. Then beyond that, there's working capital and a buffer and then the potential return of capital.

We've talked about the fact that we have six products that have over 1 billion users. Three of those were through acquisitions -- YouTube, Android and Maps. That is not lost on us. And then you layer on top of that DoubleClick, that was also through acquisition.

And at the time it wasn't clear. I'd say to everybody that those would end up being the incredibly powerful effective businesses for users that they are today. It remains a part of what we consider. The bar is high but I certainly wouldn't want you to read anything into it beyond what it is. It fits right within our framework. And, as I said, we view it as the right action at the right time.

ANTHONY DICLEMENTE: Understood, thank you.

OPERATOR: Paul Vogel from Barclays.

PAUL VOGEL, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Great, thanks. Two questions, please. First, just when we think about search and deep linking, can you just quantify a little bit how important deep linking has been to either clicks or ROI or improvements in CPC on mobile?

And then the second question, just as we think about the more transparency going forward in Q4, how should we think about businesses that currently are in the Other Bets line that may continue to grow? And what would be considered to move something from Other Bets into core Google. Thank you.

SUNDAR PICHAI: On the deep linking, I would view it as we're beginning to scratch the surface in terms of how we get at information within apps. What's been exciting to us, all early indications show that when we provide these deep links users respond to them the same way they've done with links to websites, and the model is working well. On the second thing, maybe you can.

RUTH PORAT: Yes. Interesting in the way you've framed the question. Within Other Bets we have a pretty broad array of challenges, opportunities that are being tackled, as you know well, from life sciences to driverless cars to what we're doing in access and energy. And those we're funding. We've got a very rigorous disciplined approach to looking at the metrics against which they're performing and growing.

But you've used the term -- when do they move into Google -- and I wouldn't assume that that's the plan. What we're really looking at is how do we continue to broaden the nature of issues that we are able to address.

What we want with Alphabet is to be an extraordinary magnet, the best magnet for entrepreneurs, and to be an accelerant for their development, and to give them the kind of environment where they can continue to thrive, and therefore build great businesses that generate tremendous returns, as well, for our stakeholders on top of solving big problems. But that doesn't necessarily mean -- in fact, we are very much thinking they will continue to grow and be independent entities. So, say, a broader view of what is Alphabet.

PAUL VOGEL: Got it. So, just to be clear, it's not about that they're newer or smaller or growing; it's is just they're separate businesses that will grow on their own separate from the core Google

RUTH PORAT: Our view is that we are seeding them and they are growing and we are not predetermining what ends up happening. They're big opportunities and we're excited to be in a position where we can address them, and in a way that is an incredible magnet for great entrepreneurs.

PAUL VOGEL: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Stephen Ju, Credit Suisse.

STEPHEN JU, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Sundar, I think it was on a conference call about three years ago when Larry articulated a vision of a simple and consistent consumer experience from Google. And the same for your advertising customers, as well. So, as this is your first conference call with investors, where do you think you are on that initiative today? Are you still new on the same path or do you plan to take that in a different direction in your new role?

And, Ruth, despite the high growth of YouTube and Play, presumably, are your cost of goods sold, where the content costs of these two businesses live, it's not growing as rapidly So, will you give some color on where you might be driving leverage. Thanks.

SUNDAR PICHAI: On the first one, I think the vision that Larry articulated is a very compelling vision and it's still valid. To me, the way I think about it is mobile is a good forcing function, in some ways. It's a good constraint for us to focus and deliver against that vision. So, what I'm doing is, internally all our objectives are primarily focused on mobile and how, within the context of mobile, we get to a better, simpler and consistent experience for consumers and advertisers. That framework is how we are thinking about it and I think we are making solid progress.

RUTH PORAT: And then if you're focusing on the other cost of revenue line, the year-over-year and quarter-over-quarter growth was driven by ongoing data center operations, including depreciation -- that's in there, as well -- as well as content acquisition costs, as you said, primarily YouTube and Play. One thing to note as we look forward to the fourth quarter with the launch of Nexus, Chromecast and Pixel, it's worth noting that we do book the hardware costs in this line.

STEPHEN JU: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Mark May from Citi.

MARK MAY, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Thanks. I had two questions that are interrelated around mobile apps. When you talk about the strength in mobile search, are you including also searches that are done on some of your mobile apps, like a search done on a maps app or on the mobile YouTube app?

And then somewhat related is, you have, I think it's six apps, that have over 1 billion users globally. But some of these you're not really monetizing today, or very nascent stages. Can you talk about your efforts maybe to monetize some of these large and actively used apps, and maybe identify one or two where you're -- I guess this is for Sundar -- particularly excited about the opportunities. Thanks.

SUNDAR PICHAI: Thanks, Mark. On the first one, we are specifically talking about the mobile search experience on Google.com or the Google app. But we are seeing the same traction within Maps or YouTube. We are seeing mobile usage dramatically grow. And in that context people are searching, as well. So, it's across the board we are seeing strength.

In terms of our apps which have scaled, obviously we take a very long-term view. Several of those apps today already play huge. For example, take Google Maps. It already plays a huge important role in making mobile search better, so these are interrelated.

YouTube is obviously a big opportunity. Google Play is one. End even things like Gmail are playing a critical role in Google for Work and how we are driving big business opportunities, as well. And, by the way, because we are scaling all these apps over 1 billion users we are building the infrastructure, which is what will power our cloud platform externally, as well. So, in many ways these are all working for us.

OPERATOR: Colin Sebastian from Robert W. Baird.

COLIN SEBASTIAN, ANALYST, ROBERT W. BAIRD & CO.: Great, thanks. I wanted to ask about two areas of the business mentioned on the call. One is machine learning. It's just coming up a lot more frequently as a topic. I wonder if you could mention more specifically the vision that you have for some of the core applications and how machine learning can make them more useful.

And then just as a follow-up to the question on the Google Cloud, and specifically the infrastructure of the service layer, I wonder there if your strategy is more focused on price or if there are other ways that you can differentiate the service from the competition. Thank you.

SUNDAR PICHAI: Machine learning is a core transformative way by which we are rethinking everything we are doing. We've been investing in this area for a while. We believe we are state-of-the-art here. And the progress, particularly in the last two years, has been pretty dramatic. So, we are thoughtfully applying it across all our products, be it search, be it ads, be it YouTube and Play. We're in early days but you will see us in a systematic manner think about how we can apply machine learning to all these areas.

On Cloud, I think the right way to think about it over time, for a company or for a developer to build stuff on Cloud, they need not just basic things like compute and storage, they need a whole set of services on top of it. There is a lot in the stack. So, I think the way we will differentiate over time is, because we have built large services on top of our infrastructure, we understand all the layers which you need to build data applications. So, you will see us increasingly provide value-added services on top of compute and storage. That's the way I think we'll play this.

OPERATOR: Thank you. That's all the time we have for questions. I would now like to turn the call back to Ellen West for any closing remarks.

ELLEN WEST: Great. Thanks, everyone, for joining us today. We look forward to speaking with you again on our fourth-quarter call. Thank you and have a good evening.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for participating in today's conference. This does conclude today's program. You may all disconnect. Everyone, have a great day.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
goog : Alphabet Inc.
   IN
iappsp : Cloud Computing | i8394 : Computer Services | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | i8396 : Diversified Holding Companies
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Financial Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020151024ebam000hl
  


 HD
 Q2  2015 Google Inc Earnings Call - Final
   WC
8,932 words
   PD
16 July 2015
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©015 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Google Inc. second-quarter 2015 earnings conference call.

   TD
(Operator Instructions)

As a reminder, this conference call may be recorded. I would now like to introduce your host for today's conference, Ellen West, Vice President, Investor Relations. Please go ahead, ma'am.

ELLEN WEST, VP OF IR, GOOGLE INC.: Thank you. Good afternoon, everyone, and welcome to Google's second-quarter 2015 earnings conference call. With us today are Ruth Porat and Omid Kordestani.

As you know, we distribute our earnings release through our investor relations website located at investor.google.com. Please refer to our IR website for our earnings releases, as well as the supplementary slides that accompany the call. This call is also being webcast from investor.google.com. A replay of the call will be available on our website later today.

Now let me quickly cover the Safe Harbor. Some of the statements that we make today may be considered forward-looking including statements regarding Google's future investments, our long-term growth and innovation, the expected performance of our businesses, and our expected level of capital expenditures. These statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially.

For more information please refer to the risk factors discussed in our Form 10-K for 2014 filed with the SEC. Any forward-looking statements that we make are based on assumptions as of today, and we undertake no obligation to update these statements as a result of new information or future events.

During this call we will present both GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures. A reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP measures is included in today's earnings press release. The press release and an accompanying investor presentation are available on our website at investor.google.com.

I'll now turn the call over to Ruth.

RUTH PORAT, CFO, GOOGLE INC.: Thanks.

We had strong performance in the second quarter, notwithstanding the continuation of substantial currency headwinds. Key highlights this quarter include ongoing momentum in our core search business, particularly mobile, complemented by significant growth in YouTube revenues. In addition, we are increasingly benefiting from the shift toward programmatic advertising, particularly among brand advertisers. These strong top-line results were complemented by ongoing operating expense discipline in the quarter, as reflected in 13% year-over-year growth in GAAP operating income and 16% year-over-year growth in non-GAAP operating income.

I will first go over a summary of the quarter followed by specific financial details and conclude with themes for the near term. Omid will then cover the business and product highlights of the quarter, after which we will take your questions.

Beginning with a summary of our financial performance, total revenue was $17.7 billion, up 11% year over year and up 3% sequentially. As a result of the ongoing strengthening of the US dollar, we realized a negative currency impact on our revenues of $1.6 billion, or $1.1 billion after the benefit of our hedging program. Holding currency constant to prior periods, our total revenue grew 18% year over year and 4% sequentially.

On a GAAP basis operating profit was $4.8 billion, and the operating margin was 27%. On a non-GAAP basis, that is, excluding stock-based composition, operating profit was $6 billion and the operating margin was 34%. GAAP net income was $3.9 billion, up 17% year over year, and up 12% versus Q1. Non-GAAP net income was $4.8 billion, up 18% year over year and up 8% versus Q1.

GAAP earnings per diluted share for class A and B shares were $4.93, and for class C were $6.43. Higher EPS for class C reflects the impact of the adjustment payment made in Q2. Non-GAAP earnings per diluted share were $6.99. As detailed in the earnings slides on our IR website, stock-based compensation totaled $1.1 billion, up 29% year over year and down 6% sequentially.

Let me now turn to key elements of our financial statements. Starting with our primary revenue sources, Google Site's revenue was $12.4 billion, up 13% year over year, and up 4% sequentially notwithstanding currency headwinds. Year-on-year and quarter-on-quarter growth reflect continued strength in search, particularly mobile search. We continued to close the gap between mobile and desktop search monetization.

Specifically on mobile, we're pleased with our ongoing progress resulting from our focus on user experience, ads quality and online to off-line commerce initiatives. The combination of these efforts improves the effectiveness and value of mobile for users and marketers alike.

Desktop search delivered solid revenue growth again this quarter. YouTube again delivered substantial growth in user engagement globally, particularly on mobile, which translated into strong adoption of our TrueView ad format. Growth in watch time on YouTube has accelerated and is now up over 60% year over year, the fastest growth rate we've seen in two years. Mobile watch time has more than doubled from a year ago.

Network revenue was $3.6 billion, up 2% year on year and up 1% sequentially, continuing to reflect the divergent performance of programmatic on the one hand and our legacy network businesses on the other. Our programmatic business, including Ad Exchange and DoubleClick Bid Manager, continued to deliver strong year-over-year and sequential performance that more than offset lower results in AdSense for search. We remain committed to policy changes that improve the user experience, notwithstanding the fact that these policies have a negative impact on AdSense for search revenue.

Other revenue was $1.7 billion, up 17% year over year and down 3% sequentially. Given the geographic mix of our Play business FX also had an impact on other revenue. Year-over-year and sequential movements were driven by substantial growth in Play offset by a decline in hardware sales.

Next, revenues by geography: US revenue was up 16% year over year to $8 billion and up 4% versus Q1. UK revenue was up 4% year over year to $1.7 billion and flat sequentially. In fixed FX terms, the UK grew 11% year over year and was flat quarter over quarter. Rest of world revenue was up 8% versus last year to $8 billion, and up 2% versus Q1. In fixed FX terms, revenues were up 22% year over year and up 4% sequentially, highlighting both the strength of our global business as well as the impact of FX.

Finally, revenue monetization: as a reminder, these metrics similarly reflect currency movements. Aggregate paid clicks grew 18% year over year and 7% sequentially. Aggregate CPCs were down 11% year over year and 4% sequentially.

In terms of the drivers, within Google Sites, paid clicks were up 30% year over year, and up 10% sequentially, in particular reflecting growth in YouTube TrueView as well as in mobile. Google Sites CPCs were down 16% year over year and down 5% sequentially. Mobile CPCs continue to strengthen and the gap to desktop continues to [narrow] as I previously noted.(company corrected after the call) The decline in CPCs reflects the impact of YouTube TrueView, which is a growing percentage of overall Sites clicks mix, and where CPCs remain lower than on our other platforms.

Network paid clicks were down 9% year over year, and down 2% sequentially, reflecting the impact of our ongoing policy changes designed to reduce lower quality inventory on AdSense for search, consistent with our focus on improving user experience. Network CPCs were down 3% both year over year and sequentially.

Let me turn now to expenses. Traffic acquisition costs were $3.4 billion, or 21% of total advertising revenue, which was down slightly sequentially. Trends within Sites and network TAC remained flat due to mix shifts in partners, products and devices. As a reminder, the Sites TAC line includes the TAC that we pay to search distribution partners for distributing Google search as distinct from their own branded search.

Non-GAAP other cost of revenues was $3 billion in Q2, up 12% year over year, and up 7% versus Q1. Year-on-year and sequential growth were driven by costs associated with operating our data centers, including depreciation, as well as content acquisition costs, primarily for YouTube and Play.

Non-GAAP operating expenses were $5.4 billion, or 30% of revenue, up 11% year over year and down 1% versus Q1. The increase in operating expense versus 2Q 2014 primarily reflects R&D expense attributable to increased hiring of engineers and product managers. Headcount increased 18% versus last year and 3% versus 1Q 2015, with total headcount at quarter end of approximately 57,100.

The deceleration in year-over-year growth and decline in quarter-over-quarter operating expenses reflects, in part, discipline in expense management, and, in part, lower legal expenses than in comparable periods. A breakout of individual operating expense lines is available on our earnings slides.

Other income and expense was $131 million with interest income offset by higher expenses from our FX hedging program. The effective tax rate was 21% for the second quarter. As noted in our press release in Q2, we identified an incorrect classification of certain revenues between legal entities.

We revised our income tax expense for the relevant periods beginning in 2008 through the first quarter of 2015 in the cumulative amount of $711 million. The income tax adjustments were not material to the affected periods. More detail is available on our earnings slides.

Turning now to CapEx and cash, CapEx for the quarter was $2.5 billion, primarily for production equipment and data center construction. CapEx spend was lower versus last year and last quarter, reflecting a bit of a digestion period after an extended period of investment in both data centers and the requisite machine deployment. We continue to view our computing infrastructure as one of our most strategic assets. Operating cash flow was $7 billion, with free cash flow of $4.5 billion, resulting in a cash balance of approximately $70 billion at the end of the quarter, of which approximately $40 billion, or 58%, is held overseas.

Let me close with five topics of focus for the near term. First, on revenue growth and drivers, our strong revenue growth in the second quarter, notwithstanding the adverse effects of the strong US dollar, evidences the health of our core search business, most notably mobile, complemented by growth in YouTube and programmatic advertising.

Our earlier-stage products such as fiber, Google life sciences and Nest, serve as longer-term sources of revenue. Regarding these areas, we are focused on tight governance to ensure that the resourcing for them is appropriate. And we'll talk more about these products in greater detail as I get settled in.

Second, the sequential deceleration in expense growth achieved in the second quarter reflects, in part, the benefit of expense discipline discussed in prior calls. A key focus is on the levers within our control to manage the pace of expenses while still ensuring and supporting our growth. We will do this while we continue to invest in engineering talent to keep us preeminent in innovation globally.

Third, the pace of growth in capital expenditures over the last several years has been significant. Although the vast majority of CapEx to date has been to support our core business, growing requirements for newer products underscore the increasing importance of optimization across the many opportunities ahead of us.

Fourth, our cash balance grew again this quarter which, of course, gives us more strategic flexibility. We remain focused on judiciously capitalizing on the strategic opportunities that we have, which are many. And a key issue is how we prioritize our capital allocation given the breadth of opportunities.

Finally, as Larry has frequently noted, Google's goal is to develop great, new services that significantly improve the lives of as many people as possible. Solving problems for users at scale ultimately results in monetization opportunities. How we prioritize and focus on these opportunities remains paramount, both for our employees who remain inspired by the opportunity to work on the most cutting-edge developments with maximum global impact, and for our shareholders.

I look forward to working with you. I will now turn the call over to Omid who will cover the business details of the quarter.

OMID KORDESTANI, CHIEF BUSINESS OFFICER, GOOGLE INC.: Thanks, Ruth. It's great to be here to talk with everyone again.

Since we last spoke, Google's been very busy hosting our customers and developers from across the globe at events ranging from I/O to the DoubleClick Leadership Summit to Brandcast. We're seeing great momentum and results across the Company.

As you all saw at I/O, we continue to invest in innovation across our core products. To call out just one, the new photos app is a great example of how we're combining the power of machine learning, search and beautiful design, something that Google is proud to bring together in such a great package for our users.

Our investments in machine learning have applications across the Company and have real potential to improve our Business. For instance, machine learning helps us to improve an ad's visual design to maximize its performance. There's enormous opportunity here.

I want to quickly share a few highlights of the past quarter and then spend more time talking about our progress in what continues to be our two biggest focus areas and growth drivers, mobile and video. First, our core products continued to do well and users love them. In fact, Google search, YouTube, Android, Chrome and Google maps each have over 1 billion users.

We also continue to see great partner momentum across the Android platform. The Android phone ecosystem started with one device, one carrier and one OEM, the T-Mobile G1 in 2008, and has grown now to over 400 OEMs and over 500 carriers who make over 4,000 distinct devices. This is a testament to our great progress on both the tech and partnering fronts.

Google Play continues to grow at an impressive clip. Google Play games has added more than 180 million new users in the past six months and continues to be one of the fastest-growing mobile gaming platforms in history. In addition, we're seeing strong momentum around Google Cloud Platform with a range of great, new features, new major customer announcements like HTC and JDA software and our collaboration with Broad Institute.

And on the advertising side, as the trend towards programmatic ad buying continues, we're helping clients succeed in a multiscreen world with our DoubleClick platform. We recently expanded cross device measurement to all of our DoubleClick advertiser products so marketers can measure these conversions for all of their campaigns. And to help publishers we recently announced full DoubleClick support for native ad formats.

Now I'll spend a few minutes diving more into the big areas of opportunity for us, the shift to mobile and the continued growth of online video. I talked last quarter about the shifts we see in consumer behavior as people turn to their phones throughout the day to decide what to buy or do. Google's role has always been to meet people's needs in the exact moment they're looking and those moments are increasingly happening on mobile devices.

More Google searches now take place on mobile devices than on computers in 10 countries, including the US and Japan, two of our largest markets. And we know that when people search on their mobile phones they're looking for immediacy and action. In fact, 30% of mobile queries are related to location and our efforts around local search are helping consumers find relevant information fast.

We're investing in creating great mobile experiences for people across Google products. As Sundar and his team showed at I/O this year, there's a lot to be excited about from Now on Tap to Android Pay and much more.

As I mentioned one of my favorites is a new photos app where you can keep and organize all of your memories and easily share and save what matters to you. If you're like me and have an overwhelming number of photos on your phone, the photos app makes taking, organizing and finding pictures much more manageable and enjoyable, and it's getting better every day.

In addition, our teams have made great strides to help users find what they need within third-party apps through indexing. We now have 50 billion links within apps indexed and 25% of signed in Google searches on Android now return deep links, taking users right to content within an app or to a link so they can install it.

We also recently started showing such links in search results on iOS. Developers like Etsy are already seeing a boost in traffic as a result of deep linking. We also added now cards for more than 100 apps like OpenTable and Spotify. And we have extended Google voice actions to third-party developers so you can say things like -- okay, Google, listen to NPR.

Alongside our efforts to make mobile better for users, we're continuing to help marketers succeed in today's mobile world. For instance, at I/O we recently announced universal app campaigns which will let developers easily reach users across Google search, the AdMob network, mobile sites, YouTube and Google Play. Marketers just tell us what their ad will say, the audience they want to reach, and how much they want to spend, and our ad systems will do the rest to help them maximize performance.

We introduced new mobile ad formats like automobile ads which take you directly to a carousel of vehicle images, important details like estimated MPG, and links to nearby dealer listings. And just yesterday, we announced purchases on Google, which makes it easier for people searching on Google to buy things right from their mobile phones.

I want to turn now to YouTube which is showing strong momentum with users and advertisers as we reinvent the television experience for the digital age. On mobile alone, YouTube reaches more 18- to 49-year-olds in the US than any US cable network. And the number of users coming to YouTube who start at the YouTube homepage, similar to the way they might turn on their TV, is up over three times year on year.

Plus, once users are on YouTube, they are spending more time per session watching videos. On mobile the average viewing session is now more than 40 minutes, up more than 50% year over year.

As consumers continue to shift their content consumption from television to digital, brand dollars are following, which we're seeing in upfront buying through our Google Preferred model. Compared to the same period after Brandcast as last year, Google Preferred commitments in the US were three times higher.

We're also seeing great adoption of our video ad formats like TrueView, and continue to help marketers engage and connect with consumers in new ways. The number of advertisers running video ads on YouTube is up more than 40% year over year. And for our top 100 advertisers the average spend per advertiser is up over 60% year over year.

We recently introduced a new feature for TrueView that allows brands to automatically insert product information, images and pricing into their video ads. And as advertising increasingly shifts towards programmatic buying, brands can now easily buy TrueView ads programmatically through DoubleClick Bid Manager.

All this is helping our content creators build the next generation of media companies doing what they love, making great videos. The number of channels earning six figures per year on YouTube is up 50% year over year. One of the key reasons for this success is our content ID initiative, which is used by more than 8,000 partners who have claimed over 400 million videos, helping them control their content on YouTube and make money on videos containing copyrighted material.

So, as you can see, it's been a very busy and successful quarter. We're super focused on our key goals of delivering amazing mobile and video experiences. And there's a lot more coming in the next few months including the Android M release, Now on Tap, Android Pay and YouTube gaming.

Thank you to all the Googlers around the world for their great work every day. Now back to Ruth.

RUTH PORAT: Thank you. In my comments I need to note that the gap between mobile and desktop continues to narrow. And with that I'll turn it back to Ellen.

ELLEN WEST: Great. Thank you, operator? I think we're ready for questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions)

Justin Post, Bank of America Merrill Lynch.

JUSTIN POST, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: (Inaudible) really has built up headcount and data center capabilities. Just where are you on capacity? And, really, what was the purpose of this big build up? What kind of capabilities does that give Google today? Thank you.

RUTH PORAT: Thank you for that question. First, I do want to clarify one thing. In my comments on CPCs I meant to note that the gap between mobile and desktop continues to narrow, obviously. An important trend, I wanted to clarify that.

In terms of headcount and data center capabilities, and what that does for us, as I've said, in our view, our infrastructure is one of the most strategic assets that we have. And as we talk about what happened in the second quarter, it reflects the fact that there can be some variability in the cadence of spend. So, while overall capital intensity was lower in Q2 than in prior year and prior quarter it's more an issue of how spend has phased during the year. But the main point is we view computing capacity as a strategic asset. It provides us with the flexibility necessary for growth.

And as I tried to convey, as well, obviously it's a priority to achieve efficiencies where possible, in particular given some of the newer opportunities that we have. We're just beginning the 2016 budgeting process. Core to that is prioritization. But it really has been about strategic flexibility and the underlying strength of all that we do.

JUSTIN POST: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Ross Sandler, Deutsche Bank.

ROSS SANDLER, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: I just had two questions. Omid, the US re-accelerated, it looked like, from 12% to 16% in the quarter. Can you just give us a little color what drove that? Was it more a function of core search and mobile picking up or YouTube?

And then, Ruth, you mentioned in your prepared remarks that a lot of the expense deceleration was put in place before you got to Google. Now that you've been in the seat for a couple of months, can you talk about what you're seeing and what potentially you could do in addition to what was in place in 2015 before you got there? Thank you.

OMID KORDESTANI: Thank you, Ross. Our performance really reflects the fact that we have a diverse set of products that are doing well. We have strength in core search obviously, and in particular in mobile, YouTube and programmatic, we're seeing a lot of strength. We saw a nice pickup in a number of verticals in Q2 coming off weather-related weakness in Q1. And this quarter we're seeing retail and travel being stronger verticals in search. As to the second part of the question I'll have Ruth address that.

RUTH PORAT: With respect to expense management, obviously a lot has been done on expense discipline. It's been discussed on calls for a number of quarters. And I think it's fair to say proper resource allocation stretches across OpEx and CapEx. And it's about prioritizing our investments and ensuring that we're being efficient and effective with our spend.

To be clear, the priority is revenue growth and we have a breadth of opportunity. But pursuing revenue growth is obviously not inconsistent with expense management. And, so, as I noted we're just starting the 2016 budgeting process. In my experience the best way to slow the rate of growth in expenses is to work closely with business leaders really anchored in data so together we can identify ways to prioritize resources and really continue to extend the discipline that we've talked about. Given my early conversations with our business leaders, I look forward to this exercise over the next couple of months. We're very engaged with it.

ROSS SANDLER: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Carlos Kirjner, Bernstein.

CARLOS KIRJNER, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & CO.: I have two questions. Ruth, can you help us understand Google's position vis-a-vis debt? It's probably not controversial that your debt level is much below your capacity. Are there any reasons why Google would not want to raise that if you had to finance a large acquisition? And if yes could you help us understand what the reasons are?

And, secondly, how do we reconcile the strength in mobile search with the fact that distribution TAC grew only 6% year on year? Thank you.

RUTH PORAT: Starting with your question about cash and whether we would issue debt, the way I look at that is you're talking about overall efficiency of balance sheet and how are we using the balance sheet. And I've slightly broadened the question more than what you did, but at the end of the day, our focus, my focus is maximizing shareholder value over the medium to long term. And that is about how effectively are we using our balance sheet, where are we investing. And debt could theoretically be a part of that.

But if you step back as I've looked at it, the key issue is, what do we need for working capital, what do we need for CapEx, what do we need for M&A, what do we need potentially for capital return, how does one think about financing the various opportunities that we have. And I would say it's early days. It would be premature to be more specific than that. But given this profitability of our business, we have many opportunities given the growing mix of our business. We have opportunities.

I'd say allocation decisions are not mutually exclusive. Allocation can obviously change as opportunities evolve. But as we look at it we have a breadth of opportunities. And, again, I think it's premature to be more specific on that at this point.

CARLOS KIRJNER: How about the distribution TAC only growing 6% given the strength in mobile?

RUTH PORAT: As it relates to distribution TAC, Sites' TAC dollars are up modestly year over year and quarter over quarter, and that's what I would really focus you on. It's the dollar change. And obviously you know this well, but that's a good thing because with those TAC dollars comes revenue.

As a reminder, TAC includes payments made to search distribution partners as distinct from YouTube and Play content acquisition costs which are in other cost of revenue. Looking at this on a percentage of revenue basis, what you're seeing is the impact of YouTube revenue growth. Sites' revenue is up but the associated content acquisition costs are reflected in higher other cost of revenue not in Sites' TAC. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Stephen Ju, Credit Suisse.

STEPHEN JU, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Omid, big picture, the outperformance of programmatic and YouTube is interesting, as it seems to beg the next question. Your current list of advertising products now seems to touch all parts of the consumer purchasing funnel. I'm wondering where you are in uniting all of the different pieces so that you can walk into a large advertiser and lay out the data and show that the 15-second TrueView spot that they ran turned into a lift in the sales of X%. Thanks.

OMID KORDESTANI: Sure. It's a good question and, in fact, that's one of the areas that I really focused on after I came back. It is a suite of products that we're very proud of and working well for advertisers. What we like to say internally is we like to have one Google represented to the customer so that in these conversations with them we really understand their objectives and really in the classic sense of the funnel we can start from the brand journey from the beginning to purchase across search, display, video. And then, as you know, we recently brought cross device measurement to DoubleClick.

So, the focus is really on all aspects of this journey. Online to store, we're showing how mobile ads are driving actual store visits for advertisers. And brand lift studies we're showing brands in realtime how their ads are performing. We've done over 10,000 brand lift studies on YouTube campaigns alone. We're really just excited about having this full suite now and being able to have the full coverage of this customer acquisition journey from branding all the way to conclusion of a transaction.

STEPHEN JU: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Mark Mahaney, RBC Capital Markets.

MARK MAHANEY, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Omid, you gave a lot of great data points on the growth in YouTube and stuff that's accelerated. Could you spend a little bit more time on the why? Why has YouTube seen this kind of reacceleration resurgence in growth? Do you think it's part of a broader industry trend? The weakness in the upfronts off-line is now coming online? What else specifically is YouTube doing to better capture those dollars?

And then, Ruth, I know somebody asked you about debt. The logical follow-on question is other cash returns and share repurchases and dividends. I know it's early days but your thoughts on and your collective thoughts on Google, how you think about that over the next few years, when if ever it makes logical sense to do that? Thank you.

OMID KORDESTANI: I'll start and hand it to Ruth. I think it's really a combination of all of the strengths of YouTube coming together. It starts with having over 1 billion users, nearly almost one-third of all people on the Internet every day watching hundreds of millions of hours on the service. And that creates billions of views. As Ruth mentioned, the growth in watch time on YouTube accelerated and is now up over 60% year over year, the fastest we've seen in a couple years.

And I think we're doing also a much better job with our products and our sales force to not only deliver for the creators on YouTube and do a better job of helping them monetize their content, and at the same time then highlighting that success through programs like Brandcast where advertisers, agencies see that dynamic audience and service. And then with the advertising products, be able to then show them the real benefits of advertising and the ways that they can measure its effectiveness.

So, it's really all the pieces coming together for us. Obviously we have a lot of work to do and we see still a lot of opportunity to enhance the service. So, I think you'll see a lot of innovation coming from us both on the service front as well as on the advertising products.

RUTH PORAT: As you noted, it is early days, but the way I view any assessment of a return on capital -- my prior answer regarding balance sheet efficiency -- is really in the context of maximizing stakeholder value over the medium to long term. And with return of capital it gets into the context of, how do you prioritize and allocate cash after an appropriate reserve for working capital amongst CapEx, M&A and potentially that capital return. And as I said, the allocation decisions aren't mutually exclusive. The profitability of our business gives us many opportunities.

But the main point is to date the biggest return on investment here has been in our core search business including mobile search, as a result of both smart M&A and CapEx. Through M&A we built a lot of the growth engines you know today. YouTube and DoubleClick are great examples. Again, this underscores the power of smart, targeted acquisitions.

We also have a strong track record of investment in new products, as you know well, and the infrastructure to support explosive growth. Our tech infrastructure, as I've already commented on, is really unparalleled. And we do view it as a great strategic asset and we've invested in it substantially over many years. So, trying to gauge whether or how capital return fits in, it's premature to do that, and it's really looking across these various potential uses.

MARK MAHANEY: Thank you, Ruth. Thank you, Omid.

OPERATOR: Eric Sheridan, UBS.

ERIC SHERIDAN, ANALYST, UBS: Omid, you mentioned retail and travel as two of the stronger verticals on the advertising front. And in the recent past you guys have made a number of announcements around products that align your interests more closely with suppliers, people who are closing the economic loop and you might be even moving down the funnel. How do you think about the opportunities for Google to move down respective funnels and industries where you do already have a fair bit of expertise? Thanks.

OMID KORDESTANI: We're really focused on connecting retailers to consumers across screens, and also reducing this friction involved in finding and purchasing products, including local products and stores. So, that entire journey and all the aspects of commerce is a great area of focus for us. As users start their searches on mobile phones, we're continuously trying to find ways to improve the mobile shopping experience.

And as shopping experiences on these smartphones become easier, and we focus on improving mobile conversions for advertisers, we're seeing great benefits from that, which. We just announced that purchases on Google, for example, the smartphone-only feature of the product listing ads as an example. Again, all of these are really for us the building blocks to help in reduction of that friction and bring the expertise we have in understanding the immediacy, the local nature of these searches, and understanding conversion and how to put it all together for our users and for our advertisers and merchants.

OPERATOR: Douglas Anmuth, JPMorgan.

DOUGLAS ANMUTH, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Just to follow up a little bit on the last one, Omid, can you talk more specifically about the cross-platform efforts and estimated conversions in particular, and whether you're seeing that prove more of the value across the platform? And then, secondly, you commented several times that the gap is tightening on pricing between mobile and desktop. Can you quantify that by any chance? And can you just talk about what you think drives that to tighten further going forward? Thanks.

OMID KORDESTANI: Sure. Maybe I'll have Ruth take that second part. On the first part, on this online to off-line conversion efforts, we obviously know that mobile activities are influencing off-line behavior and we're very busy investing in new dynamic products that help bring mobile users to stores. We're seeing strong results from clients using our tools to bridge this digital and physical world, and great adoption of local inventory ads which help advertisers promote their store items to nearby shoppers. That's how the whole cycle of usage of smartphones and the immediacy come together.

And then we've created a way for advertisers to measure the impact of these ads on store visits. Just to give you a couple examples, Target, one of our advertisers, found that mobile search ads greatly influence in-store sales. And using our store visits data they found that one-third of their paid search ads resulted in a user visiting a Target store during 2014 holiday season. We love to continue working with them and other advertisers to show the results and then build on that.

A Florida department store working with us found that 63% of their mobile influenced sales take place off-line. So, more and more we're doing these studies, we're putting the tool together for these advertisers and our partners, the merchants, and finding ways for them to really quantify these benefits and just scale these programs for everyone.

RUTH PORAT: And then as it relates to the second part of your question, there are really two good stories here given the importance of search -- mobile CPCs up and desktop CPCs not declining, so the gap is narrowing. On the mobile side, as Larry said before, with respect to desktop it took time to fully develop the pricing model and we remain focused on building the mobile ecosystem to have the right ad formats and measurement tools to take advantage of all the platform has to offer. Features like estimated store visits, app install, re-engagement, cross-device conversions are all parts of this strategy.

And then on desktop the business continues to grow. It remains a good contributer to overall results. As we announced at the AdWords performance summit in May, ongoing development in rich and useful ads that work across all screens, including desktop, enable us to deliver the right answers for our users in the right moment. In other words, ad formats that accelerate time to conversion on both mobile and desktop, and that's what's really narrowing this gap here.

DOUGLAS ANMUTH: Great. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Anthony DiClemente, Nomura.

ANTHONY DICLEMENTE, ANALYST, NOMURA SECURITIES: Ruth, given your background, I just wanted to ask if you thought the regulatory backdrop for Google is in any way analogous to the financial services industry. And what is your outlook for a large player like Google in an environment of increasing regulatory pressure, particularly outside the US? And of course specifically for Google, with the EC demanding changes to the search results, just wondering should we be concerned that these regulatory pressures can ultimately have an impact on your business? Thanks.

RUTH PORAT: The industries are different, but as it comes to our business, Google operates in a very competitive environment. There are many windows on to the web. Choice, competition, investment are all going up, not down. And we do look forward to continuing to work constructively with the EC to address any concerns they may have, and regulators generally.

ANTHONY DICLEMENTE: Okay. Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Brian Nowak, Morgan Stanley.

BRIAN NOWAK, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: I have two. The first one, Ruth, going back to your comments on some of the earlier stage projects -- fiber, life science, et cetera -- and being focused on tight governance, is there any way you can help us think about OpEx or CapEx related to those projects at this point, and how we should think about maintenance versus investment OpEx and CapEx going forward?

And then the second one, just going back to the accelerating US revenue growth, it sounds like mobile and YouTube are both doing pretty well. Can you help us understand, are you seeing both accelerate? Is US search accelerating at this point or is it more so being driven by YouTube? Thanks.

RUTH PORAT: Sure. Let me take the first part of your question first. In terms of overall the framework for thinking about our businesses broadly, I think a valuable framework to use is one that Eric and Larry have referred to for many years, namely, the 70/20/10 -- 70% resources on the core, 20% on adjacent areas. At one point that included Chrome and Android and they're now in the core. But it would include things like cloud. And then 10% in additional new, exciting opportunities and really sizable markets like fiber or what we're doing with Google Life Sciences.

In discussing this with Larry it's clear his objective has been to instill within the culture of this mission to drive not just important innovation associated with our core business, but also to look for -- he's called them revolutionary ideas -- big solutions that can meaningfully contribute both making people's lives better and to the next big revenue and earnings growth opportunity for Google. And my take is that Larry views this 70/20/10 as an instructive framework.

He's also noted how hard it is to reach that 10% on these big new revolutionary ideas because it's tough to get people to tackle big difficult new problems instead of pursuing incremental change. So, human nature sort of provides a limit on how big that final bucket would be, the new opportunities.

I think the other point to consider is that Google's core business continues to deliver strong growth. So, to achieve 10% in the big new areas means continually trying to reach 10% of an even larger number. The framework keeps us focused on big ambitions across the Company, but given the success of the core business, I think it's fair to say the 10% is a stretch goal for now and it's a way to think about resources, which hopefully helps you fill in a bit there.

And then the second part of your question if you could repeat that?

BRIAN NOWAK: I was just going back to the accelerating overall US revenue, just curious about a little more color on the drivers there where it sounds like both YouTube and mobile search are doing pretty well. Is it safe to say that US search and YouTube are both accelerating or are you seeing YouTube drive it disproportionate? How should we think about the drivers of the US revenue acceleration?

RUTH PORAT: You've covered a lot of it. The US growth really reflects the fact we have a diverse set of products that are doing well. We had strength in core search, particularly mobile. We had strength in YouTube and programmatic, as Omid talked about. It's really the breadth across a number of different products that delivered the results that you're talking about, that we were talking about here today.

BRIAN NOWAK: Thanks.

OPERATOR: Heather Bellini, Goldman Sachs.

HEATHER BELLINI, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: I just had two quick questions. I was just wondering, you've talked a lot about desktop and mobile CPCs. I was wondering if you could share with us if the narrowing of the gap between the two is actually starting to accelerate.

And then the other thing I wanted to ask is, just thinking about the CapEx spending waves that companies go through -- and clearly Google's been on one, on an accelerated spending wave for the last few years -- should we then get from your comments you're in a digestion period, that the digestion period could also be a multi-year trend, as well? If there's any thoughts you could share there. Thank you.

RUTH PORAT: With respect to the first part of your question, we thought it was important to be clear that this gap is narrowing and to give a sense of some of the mix issues within CPCs. Mobile CPCs strengthening, desktop not declining. YouTube remains lower but we're seeing real strong growth in TrueView. It's just really to try and dimension it as you think about what's going on with the mix change.

And then as it relates to expenses, what I was trying to convey there is that we in the second quarter had a bit of a digestion period here on the back of the substantial investment spend that we've had. And I would say in terms of, if you think about the second quarter in that context, there can be some variability in the cadence of spend. Part of it as we're talking about CapEx here is how spend is phased during the year. I wouldn't suggest that we're talking about, as the way you framed the question, this multi-period given just the sheer scope of opportunities that we have. As I said, at the front end, with respect to both CapEx and OpEx, we're just beginning the 2016 budgeting process. We're very focused on prioritization but I was trying to give you some context for what was going on in the second quarter.

And then as it relates to OpEx, in terms of the back half of the year, there are seasonal fluctuations that do typically impact operating expense, as well. For example, headcount usually picks up in the third quarter with new grad hires starting. And our marketing expense also tends to be weighted toward the second half of the year. So, again, I was just trying to give you a sense of what the cadence is as you're thinking about the year.

HEATHER BELLINI: Great. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Robert Peck, SunTrust.

ROBERT PECK, ANALYST, SUNTRUST ROBINSON HUMPHREY: I had two questions, if you don't mind. The first is around possibility of working more directly with Yahoo on search and search results. Could you tell us about any progress there or work you've done there?

And the number two, Ruth, could you talk about the future, possibly breaking out more information around your businesses to a point where maybe we'd break out YouTube or DoubleClick or some of these other businesses that give investors a little more clarity on the size and growth of them? Thank you.

OMID KORDESTANI: I'll take the first part. Yahoo's currently testing search results and ads from a number of partners, including Google as one of their options. They have options to use search services and search ads across their properties. You may see our ads. It's just a standard agreement. And many other publishers use our web search and AdSense for search. We look forward to working with them and hopefully having a good performance for them.

RUTH PORAT: And then in terms of the second part of your question, I think it's important to help our stakeholders understand how we think about key drivers for the business and how we manage the business, providing what I call a framework for understanding the momentum in the business, our investment choices, our capital allocation decision-making. I'm committed to being direct with you. I won't give you competitively sensitive information but my goal is to help you understand the business as well as possible.

In my view, it's our obligation to pursue activities that maximize value over the long term, and doing it in a disciplined fashion. And the point I'm really trying to drive here is I aim to create a framework that helps you understand where we're going. You're asking would we think about breaking out any particular business, I'm trying to understand how best to provide more insight into the drivers of the business and beyond what is currently provided. And it is really too early to be more specific than that.

ROBERT PECK: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Paul Vogel, Barclays.

PAUL VOGEL, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Two questions on YouTube. One, there's been a lot of speculation in the past about the profitability of YouTube. I'm just curious how you think about the revenue growth versus the forward spend on forward demand. And is YouTube in a position where it's starting to see leverage on the upside with the strong revenue growth?

And then on the revenue side in particular, you talk about how YouTube, it's one of the things that drags the optics of CPC down. When mobile was doing that, I think the Company believed that over time mobile would be additive and we're starting to see it but it took some time. How do you think about YouTube in the context of is there a point in time where you think YouTube will actually be additive to the optics of CPC versus where it is right now? Thank you.

RUTH PORAT: I think there were three parts to that question. In terms of the revenue growth in YouTube, Omid hit a number of them but we continue to have strong growth there and it really does reflect, as he said, the sheer volume of users. We have over 1 billion users and those users are spending more time watching. Watch time growth continues to accelerate now, up over 60% year over year. It's the fastest rate we've seen in two years. And we do view watch time as the most valuable measure of engagement. And it does reflect the ongoing improvement in ads quality with more users also choosing to watch more TrueView ads.

Not only do we have a huge user base that's highly engaged, but data points, like the fact there are more 18- to 49-year-olds on mobile YouTube than watching cable TV today really underscores the opportunity here. And our focus is the opportunity to get larger budgets moved to YouTube.

And then in terms of the profitability question, as you know we don't break out profit by product. We view our technical infrastructure as a core strategic asset that supports products across the Company. I've already said that on this call it's an important point. It's fair to say that much of the network expense is supporting YouTube. It's a large user of capacity, and our ability to serve high-quality HD video on demand around the world is unparalleled.

From the user's perspective, YouTube is a great example of a multi-device platform with high usage on both desktop and mobile. We have one ad team that works across our various products, and when we work with the largest ad partners globally we're selling a total package. Omid has commented on some of that. Not surprisingly, if you take our top advertisers they all advertise across all our products, not necessarily at the same rate, but we have a single team working with them to close the differential. We do view that as a great opportunity. And the goal, to give just a bit more color, to have some of our assets and technical infrastructure and ad sales team benefit a number of our different products across the Company.

And then I think you slipped a third part in there on the status of CPC trends and YouTube TrueView pricing, so I'll just close out on that. CPC pricing on YouTube for TrueView ads, ads that users choose not to skip, is lower than on CPC pricing on desktop and mobile. But YouTube TrueView ads represented a larger percentage of our overall click so had a greater impact on CPCs. And this is really about the tremendous growth in YouTube views.

Again, when we see the real uptake here, and the extent to which users are choosing to watch more ads, given our effort around ad relevance and quality, advertisers want to reach these audiences. And our focus is on the opportunity to get larger budgets moved to YouTube.

PAUL VOGEL: Thank you.

ELLEN WEST: Okay. And with that I want to thank everyone for joining us today. We look forward to speaking with you again next quarter.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for participating in today's conference. This does conclude today's program. You may all disconnect. Everyone, have a great day.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
goog : Google Inc.
   IN
i8395464 : Internet Search Engines | iint : Internet/Online | itech : Technology
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Financial Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020150717eb7g004ph
  


 HD
 Q1  2015 Google Inc Earnings Call - Final
   WC
9,428 words
   PD
23 April 2015
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©015 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Google Inc. first-quarter 2015 earnings conference call.

   TD
(Operator Instructions)

As a reminder, today's conference call is being recorded. I would now like to turn the conference over to Ellen West, Vice President of Investor Relations. Ma'am, please go ahead.

ELLEN WEST, VP OF IR, GOOGLE INC.: Thank you. Good afternoon, everyone, and welcome to Google's first-quarter 2015 earnings conference call. With us today are Patrick Pichette and Omid Kordestani.

As you know, we distribute our earnings release through our Investor Relations website located at Investor.Google.com. So, please refer to our IR website for our earnings releases as well as the supplementary slides that accompany the call. This call is also being webcast from investor.Google.com. A replay of the calm will be available on our website later today.

Now let me quickly cover the Safe Harbor. Some of the statements that we make today may be considered forward-looking, including statements regarding Google's future investments, our long-term growth and innovation, the expected performance of our businesses, and our expected level of capital expenditures. These statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially.

For more information please refer to the risk factors discussed in our Form 10-K for 2014 filed with the SEC. Any forward-looking statements that we make are based on assumptions as of today, and we undertake no obligation to update these statements as a result of new information or future events.

During this call, we will present both GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures. A reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP measures is included in today's earnings press release. The press release and an accompanying investor presentation are available on our website at Investor.Google.com. With that, I will now turn the call over to Patrick.

PATRICK PICHETTE, CFO, GOOGLE INC.: Thank you, Ellen. Hello, everyone. I want to say at the outset that this quarter, Google turned in a strong performance, and this despite substantial currency headwinds. As we've all seen, the US dollar has continued to strengthen, which resulted in a gross negative currency impact on our revenues of $1.1 billion for the quarter.

Even after the significant benefits of our hedging program, the net impact to our gross revenue was still $795 million. If these currency trends persist, FX headwinds would obviously continue to impact our results in 2015.

For our results now, our gross total consolidated revenue was $17.3 billion, growing 12% year over year and declining 5% quarter over quarter. Without currency fluctuations, our gross total consolidated revenue growth is, in fact, a healthy 17% year over year. Despite significant FX pressure, Google Sitesrevenue was up a healthy 14% year over year, to $11.9 billion, and was down 4% quarter over quarter. Once again, strength in mobile search was the key driver of growth here.

Network revenue was up 1% year over year at $3.6 billion and down 8% quarter over quarter. As I mentioned last quarter, our network business includes two businesses with different growth profiles. Our legacy AdSense business, and our newer display and programmatic business where the latter continues to perform quite well.

This quarter, we reclassified some revenues primarily related to DoubleCick ad serving software from the other revenue to network revenue line. This reclassification increased network revenue by approximately $130 million in Q1, and decreased other revenue by the same amount. The display and programmatic business I mentioned early continued, as always, to be reflected in the network line. To see the impact of this reclass on historical periods please see the earnings slides on our IR website.

Finally, Google's other revenue grew 23% year over year to $1.8 billion, and was down 2% quarter over quarter. This is driven really by year-over-year growth from the Play Store, offset by a decline in Nexus and what I've mentioned the FX impact.

Our global aggregate paid clicks were up 13% year over year, down 1% quarter over quarter. Our aggregate CPCs were down 7% year over year and down 5% quarter over quarter. And on our monetization by property, Google sites paid clicks were up 25% year over year and down 3% quarter over quarter. Google sites CPCs were down 13% year over year and down 3% quarter over quarter.

Network paid clicks were down 12% year over year and up 4% quarter over quarter. And network CPCs were up 2% year over year and down 11% quarter over quarter.

As you know, we don't usually break down the impact of the individual factors on the quarterly changes in our clicks and CPCs. But this quarter, I want to provide more color on what's happening within our Sites clicks and the CPC metrics so that you can better understand the dynamics of the underlying businesses that drive them.

Many commentators have incorrectly assumed that the growth trends in our sites clicks and CPCs are primarily due to difficulties monetizing search on mobile. But that's, in fact, not the case. Remember that sites metrics include clicks and revenues related to ads served on Google's owned and operated properties, most notably, obviously, Google.com. But, as well, YouTube engagement ads like TrueView where a users choice not to skip an add is counted as a click.

While over the past year we've seen YouTube viewership climb dramatically, both in established markets but also due to rapid expansion in emerging markets. And quality improvements in TrueView ads mean that more users are, in fact, choosing not to skip them, increasing the overall ad view. So, this means that there is much higher volume of TrueView ads being seen, which has been a significant driver of year-over-year growth in numbers that you seeing in Site clicks.

TrueView ads currently monetize at lower rates than ad clicks on Google.com. But, as you know, video ads generally reach people earlier in the purchase funnel, and so across the industry, they tend to have a very different pricing profile than they would have on a typical performance search ad. Excluding the impact of YouTube TrueView ads, growth in Site clicks would be lower but still positive, and our CPCs would be healthy and growing year over year.

So, really we have two positive stories to tell here today. First, as I mentioned earlier, we are experiencing real strength in mobile search, and the CPCs in our core search business is continuing to grow year over year. So, it's doing very well.

Second, viewership in YouTube videos and TrueView ads are growing significantly. And YouTube's contribution to our advertising revenue continues to grow at a strong rate year over year. And we're really pleased with how the YouTube business is progressing. So that's the story.

Turning to geographic performance, you'll see in our earnings slides would you can find on our Investor Relations website, you'll see that we've broken down our revenue by US, UK and rest of world, and show the impact of FX and the benefits from our hedging program. So, please refer to those slides for the exact calculations.

Despite the large currency headwinds I mentioned, we saw solid performance for our core advertising business all around the world. The US was up 11% year over year to $7.4 billion, the UK was up 6% year over year to $1.7 billion, and in fixed FX terms, the UK actually grew 12% year over year. Our non-US revenue, which excluding the UK, was up 14% year over year to $8.2 billion, accounting for 47% of our total revenue. And in fixed FX terms the rest of the world grew a solid 24% year over year.

Now let me turn to expenses. Traffic acquisition costs were $3.3 billion for the quarter or 22% of total advertising revenue. Our non-GAAP other cost of revenue was $2.9 billion in Q1, which excludes SBC. Our non-GAAP operating expenses totaled $5.4 billion, again, excluding stock-based compensation. As a result of non-GAAP operating profit was a healthy $5.7 billion and non-GAAP operating margin 33% in Q1.

Headcount was up just over 1,800 people in Q1. In total, we ended the quarter with approximately 55,400 full-time employees at Google. Our effective tax rate was 22% for Q1.

Let me now turn to cash management. Other income and expenses was $157 million. Interest income and realized gains on investments offset the continued impact of expenses from our FX hedging program. For more details on OI&E please do refer to the slides that accompany this call on our website.

We're pleased with our strong operating cash flow at $6.6 billion. CapEx for the quarter was $2.9 billion. This quarter most CapEx spent was related to, first, product production equipment, data center construction, and facilities, in that order. Clearly our computing capacity is a strategic asset for us and that's why we're investing in it.

But we innovate there just like we do everywhere else. To give you an example, compared to five years ago we can now deliver more than three times as much compute power for the same amount of power or money.

Our free cash flow for the quarter was $3.7 billion. So, once again, strong results, in the core business as evidenced by our 17% fixed FX revenue growth this quarter and solid margin.

Now I'd like to turn it to Omid to provide you more specifics on our successful performance of our core and new businesses, and then we will turn it over to questions. Omid?

OMID KORDESTANI, CHIEF BUSINESS OFFICER, GOOGLE INC.: Thank you, Patrick. Our teams turned in a great performance across our business this quarter. I thought I would switch up our typical format a bit this time around. I'll quickly share some highlights and then I want to talk more about growth areas that we are really focused on -- mobile and branding.

Let's start with the rise of programmatic ad buying. It's an extraordinary change for the ads industry. And I want to point out that our investments in the DoubleClick platform continue to be a big positive for us.

We recently made TrueView our skippable ad format on YouTube, available through our DoubleClick suite. And we brought Internet delivered TV content to our ad exchange through mDialogue, a company we acquired last year.

Google Play is also growing fast, connecting developers and content providers with more than 1 billion people on Android devices around the world. Developers are building thriving businesses on our platform. And in February we announced that over the past 12 months, we've paid more than $7 billion to developers. We are honored to be partnering with them.

Our partner hardware ecosystem is also doing great, LG Watch Urbane. And Huawei watch recently announced new Android wear devices and Pioneer launched in-dash car units compatible with Android auto. Also, 10 top computer OEMs are now making more than 35 Chrome devices available in 38 countries, which is a great momentum for us.

Google for Work continues to grow at an impressive pace, thanks to the addition of customers like G4S, one of the world's largest private-sector employers, who moved 70,000 of their employees to Drive for Work. Working with our partners, we also recently launched Android for Work to accelerate the adoption of Android devices in the workplace. Business is going great in these areas and we continue to invest and capture the potential we see for growth.

Now I want to talk more about the two areas where I see a lot of opportunity for us. First, the shift to mobile and then the trend of TV budgets shifting to digital.

Mobile devices are driving a huge shift in the way people consume media. You've heard about the trends many times. Here is our point of view.

As we all know, consumers reach for their phones a lot and some of these moments matter more than others, like when people are looking for answers, or making a decision about what to buy or do. For example, more than 8 in 10 smartphone users use their phone to research a product decision they are about to make in-store. These moments include small things like looking for a movie review, and really big decisions like researching a new home purchase or figuring out what car you want to buy next. So, people expect to get exactly what they want when they want it.

As a company built on intent and immediacy, that's good news for Google. Our job has always been to connect people with what they are looking for in the exact moment they are looking.

Our ads products are a critical way we deliver the right answers in the right moment, and it's something we do really well. It's often more valuable to know someone is shopping for a new SUV, than it is to know basic demographic information about them. We have great opportunities in mobile with some of the most popular mobile apps including the Google apps, YouTube, Gmail, and Maps and our great Android platform.

Search is also important to the mobile experience. We have a retooled our search engine for mobile, providing direct answers and enabling voice queries. It's really a delightful experience. Try opening the Google apps and asking what's the plot of the Godfather movie or flip a coin. You'll be pleasantly surprised.

Chrome for mobile is also a popular app with more than 400 million users. And of course a large number of people use it as a primary way to search the web. We continue to invest in improving the mobile web for both users and developers. In our recent Chrome release we made it easier for users to add their favorite sites to their phone home screens and get helpful opt-in notifications from sites they visit often.

We've also been working to index apps just as effectively as we index web content. We now have 30 billion links within apps indexed. And if you're looking for information that lives within an app that you don't have, we will now begin showing links to install the app right under the search results page. The Google app on Android can also keep you up to date by surfacing information from more than 40 different apps when it is relevant, like Pandora music recommendations on your commute or a car to request a lift when you arrive at the airport.

We're also working very hard to make our products more accessible to the next billion people who are coming online. The first computer experience for these users won't be on a desktop machine or a laptop. They will be on a mobile phone from day one. In fact, many of them will use a mobile device as their only computer.

We launched Android One, a new family of high-quality, low-cost smartphones in Indonesia and the Philippines this quarter, making it available in a total of six emerging markets. We're also working to eliminate the barriers to access from conductivity issues. For instance, in countries like India, where a user might have a slow wireless connection, we can deliver a fast-loading light version of search so they can get their answers quickly and pay less for data.

And with the Chrome app for Android and IOS, our data compression features help reduce data usage by up to 50% while browsing the web. There's tremendous upside to these efforts and we're in a great position.

I'm also very excited about how we are helping marketers succeed in this mobile world. As I noted earlier, we're connecting brands with the right people at the precise moment when it actually matters because of our strong intent signals.

Mobile also enables us to help drive the 90% of commerce that still takes place off-line, which is a massive opportunity that our partners are really excited about. People are searching on Google for things like near me, closest, and nearby, twice as much as they did last year. Our local inventory ads are a great way for businesses to drive purchases in-store right when people are looking for local options.

We also help advertisers better measure the store visits that their digital ads drive, and we recently expanded the capabilities to advertisers in new countries. Our ads are also driving people to download apps precisely when they're looking for them. Our AdMob mobile ad network offers great targeting and reach and is the foundation of our app install offerings.

Last month, we also introduced app promotion video ads, and extended app install ads to our mobile Google Display network, which increased installed volumes for early testers by an average of 28% without impacting cost per install. We also recently began testing sponsored search results in Google Play with a small set of users and developers, helping app developers reach valuable users directly within the store.

So I'm very excited about the mobile future and marketers are, too. Our pivot to mobile has great momentum and it's delivering strong benefits to users and advertisers.

I also feel very excited about the trend of video content and TV budgets shifting to digital. YouTube is the world's most popular video service, on all screens with hundreds of millions of hours watched on YouTube every day. The place where 1 billion people come to watch video is a natural home for video advertising budgets.

When people come to YouTube, they come with the intent of watching video, so it's the perfect time to reach them with a video ad, not when they're distracted by something else. More and more brands are seeing the value of reaching audiences on YouTube, too, with the number of TrueView advertisers growing by 45% in 2014.

YouTube drives great results and we can measure the impact. We have run over 6,000 brand lift studies to date across some of the largest brand advertisers. And in studies we have run for Google preferred campaigns, we found that 94% of the campaigns we studied drove a significant lift, an average of 80% in ad recall. That's why we're bringing it back this year and expanding it to more than 10 new markets.

Google Preferred is also attracting some of the biggest TV advertisers to YouTube. More than 30 major brands that have never advertised on YouTube before signed on with Google preferred and saw such great results that they have continued to advertise with YouTube afterwards. YouTube is home to great content and engaged audiences and we are seeing the natural shift of TV budgets.

So, those are some of my observations on the trends affecting our business, what I'm hearing from partners, and why I'm upbeat on the opportunities ahead. You'll see a lot more at our Brandcast upfront event in New York next week, at the AdWords Performance Summit in early May, and our I/O developer conference in late May. We look forward to seeing you there.

Before I go, I want to thank all of the Googlers worldwide for a great quarter. And I want to say special thank you to Patrick who has been our fearless CFO for almost seven years, and who wrote one of the most heartfelt and awesome retirement notes I've ever seen. If you've read it, you'll know that he was inspired to move on after climbing Mount Kilimanjaro. I have since banned travel to Kilimanjaro for all Googlers, recommending local hills near their home. Patrick, you'll be dearly missed and we wish you and your wife all the best on your next adventure.

Thank you. And, Ruth, if you're out there listening, we can't begin to wait working with you soon. Thank you.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thank you, Omid. And absolutely true for Ruth, as well. Candace, why don't you give us the instructions to turn on the Q&A?

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions)

Carlos Kirjner, Bernstein.

CARLOS KIRJNER, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & CO.: Hi. Thanks for taking my questions. I have two questions. First, our research has suggested that many or maybe most mobile websites and mobile apps are still in pretty bad shape when it comes to user experience and conversion. I think one can expect this to improve over time/. The question is, is an improvement in conversion rate and experiences within mobile apps where users transact good or bad for Google? One could argue that people are going to spend more time in apps, transacting apps, and not search. How should we think about that?

Secondly, it's been more than two years when we've seen capital intensity very high. It continues to be quite high with $2.9 billion of CapEx. Is this the new normal? Is that what we should expect going forward? Thank you.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Omid, do you want to take the first one and I'll take the second one?

OMID KORDESTANI: Sure. Thank you, Carlos, for the question. We're actually very excited about improvements of these mobile websites. We really are happy to see where we can deliver the best answers to our users, whether be it through an app or whether we find it on the web.

We're working with developers, webmasters, publishers to help them really surface their content to users in a format they feel best. We also recently introduced this install app, install carousel, which is evidence of that effort. So, it's really about delivering the right results to the users, and the less friction you have there and the more targeted you are, we'll see the benefits in monetization.

PATRICK PICHETTE: On our side, Carlos, on the CapEx side, we are far from surprised from these numbers internally. Part of our plan. We are shifting, as you know, we've been building a lot of data centers over the last 18 months. So that is actually giving us the opportunity to put in new equipment. And we're jumping on the opportunity, thinking to the total cost of ownership of these things and the much more higher efficiency of these new machines.

Having said that, I won't comment about the future, but I just want to re-emphasize that we were not surprised by these numbers. To us, actually, they make sense given our strategy, and they were really fuel all the innovation we have going for us. It is an important part of our strategy. It's a strategic asset.

Thanks, Carlos for your questions. Candace, let's go to our next question, please.

OPERATOR: Mark Mahaney of RBC Capital Markets.

MARK MAHANEY, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Thanks, Patrick, thanks for all the additional color on the paid clicks and the CPCs. Just so we step back a little bit, because there were many of us who thought it really was driven mostly by mobile. Is your point, is your assertion that these real major shifts that we've seen over the last two or three years in CPC pressure has really largely been driven by YouTube TrueViews and the adoption of that? Is that the point you're making?

In the past you always listed the factors that would cause the shifts in paid clicks and CPCs. Could you just check off what the other items are and put them in order of priority what's moving those two needles? Thank you.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Mark, thank you for your question. And, in fact, that's why I made the comments I made today. I'm just talking about the situation as we have it now. I'm not looking back to the prior years.

I'm just saying what we have seen in this quarter, in the last quarter, we've just seen a real acceleration at YouTube. And that's why we thought it was important, because we saw this change, from the fundamental strong performance of YouTube, both in terms of its coverage, in terms of the performance.

Like even the TrueView ads, we tune these ads to make sure that people want to watch them so that they are very effective. And when they do, then people watch a lot more of them.

Over the last quarter, over the last couple of quarters, we've seen a real takeoff, and then the geographic expansion is giving us a lot more coverage. So, it's a real positive story for YouTube. Because we see it now we're reporting it now, so it's not a view back to the last five years at all. I just wanted to clarify that. So, thank you for your question.

OPERATOR: Douglas Anmuth, JPMorgan.

DOUGLAS ANMUTH, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Thanks for taking the question. Omid, I was hoping you could drill down a little bit more on the mobile search changes that are taking place, talk a little bit more about what you think the key factors are here and the key differences, and how that will impact both the natural results and also monetization.

And then, Patrick, just on the margins on cost in the quarter, non-GAAP operating margins basically flat from a year ago. Just trying to understand how much you think that was a factor of one-time items a year ago, or a change at all in terms of your view on cost discipline within the business. Thanks.

OMID KORDESTANI: Thanks, Douglas. With mobile phones really becoming such a primary way people search the Net, our goal is really to help people search, find the content that's not just relevant and timely but also really easy to read and interact with on these smaller devices and smaller screens. It's important to note that this is just one of over 200 signals we use to evaluate the best results. Non-mobile friendly sites won't disappear from the mobile searches, they'll still rank high if they hold great content that the user wants.

But a lack of mobile friendliness is a problem for web publishers because there is a band on the websites, and that's a real issue. So, it's really early to speculate exactly how the monetization impacts of these organic algorithm changes will be. But we always start with the user to deliver the right answer, the best answer, be it on the mobile web or the app. And we think that ultimately that's good for publishers, advertisers and our users, and the monetization success will follow.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Douglas, on my side, if you look at it, we're really pleased with Q1. If you look at the operating profit of the country, despite Q4 to Q1 revenue trends that are always seasonal, delivered essentially the same $5.7 billion of non-GAAP operating profits for the quarter. So, we really focused on our sequential performance rather than what happened a year ago. And there was no real specific one-time items for this quarter. This was just a pretty clean quarter and we're pretty happy with it.

Thank you, Douglas, for your question. Candace, let's go to our next question, please.

OPERATOR: Brian Nowak, Morgan Stanley.

BRIAN NOWAK, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Great. Thanks for taking my questions. Just to go back to your comments on splitting YouTube out from the CPC then paid clicks, you mentioned paid click growth would be lower excluding YouTube. Would you be willing to just help us understand that growth rate, what it looks like now and what it looked like a year ago. And then on the CPCs, you mentioned search CPCs continue to grow. Is that true even including the migration to emerging markets where CPCs are lower and even the shift toward mobile?

PATRICK PICHETTE: What I wanted to do today is clarify the issue between YouTube and our dot-com properties rather than to go into all the details. You've seen in my notes, in my comments, that the impact of TrueView ads and site CPCs, site CPCs would be growing if you take out the TrueView ad impact. And I've also noted that mobile search is continuing on the path of strength.

So, from that perspective, what I wanted to make sure is that you get the color that if you just exclude the great growth of YouTube, but it has very different fundamental dynamics, that the core of what is typically search performance, both on mobile and desktop, the combined, is doing really good. And the CPCs would be growing if you take the other effect out.

That's really what I want to make sure, so that people don't continue to hound on this issue of it's all about mobile that has terrible monetization. In fact, it's a good story there, too. Thank you for your question.

OPERATOR: Ben Schachter, Macquarie.

BEN SCHACHTER, ANALYST, MACQUARIE RESEARCH: First, Patrick, congratulations on a great run at Google, and enjoy the future bike rides. A couple questions. Can you talk about how you think Google Wallet needs to evolve to better compete with Apple Pay and others? Are we going to see acquisitions in that space or will it be more organic?

And, the, Patrick, any updated thoughts on how Google is viewing its cash balances? Are you going to return some of that cash before you leave? Thanks.

PATRICK PICHETTE: The easier answer is really for Omid, so I'll let him take that one and then I'll talk about the cash issues.

OMID KORDESTANI: On Apple Pay, I think it's just that the -- we really want to see that the industry is really opening up here and that the merchants, the banks, consumers are all starting to experience this. And our focus is really to bring this set of new APIs for payments, called Android Pay. And that our goal has always been to remove much of the friction that our users encounter today on everyday shopping experiences.

So, we are excited about what the industry is doing here and what the user's option is going to be. And we're working with all the partners to just put all of the pieces together and finally create the momentum that we are all looking forward to benefit from.

PATRICK PICHETTE: And on my side, Ben, I have no news on the cash issue. I'll just reiterate what I've said many times because I think not only is a true but it's important -- that we do bring this issue to the attention of the audit committee, the Board. There are regular debates about this issue. And it's a balance between cash being the strategic asset. And then the question we ask ourselves also in our conversations and deliberations is, do we have a pipeline of opportunities that would make us believe that we would actually wisely invest this kind of money. And in that sense, it's very clear that we're having the debates, we continue, but we have no further updates for you on that issue.

BEN SCHACHTER: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Heather Bellini, Goldman Sachs.

HEATHER BELLINI, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Great, thank you for the question and congratulations, Patrick. I just wanted to follow up on your YouTube comments earlier. You talked about the growth you've been seeing in particular over the last couple quarters. I'm just wondering, when you are talking to advertisers, what's changed over the last year or so that you really think has caused this acceleration in click volume that you're seeing? And how do you think about that gap and the potential for that gap to close over time with what you see in just traditional site CPCs, if you will? Thank you.

PATRICK PICHETTE: I'll take the technical side of it and then I'll let Omid give you a bit more on the color of what's exciting at YouTube. Related to the question, and the answer I gave you, the comments I gave you today, it's really about, if you think about it, about coverage rather than what's the new product. Because we've done a lot of geographic expansion of YouTube and that in itself gives you a lot more volume out there in terms of eyeballs.

And then in addition to that, we've, through the great work of the team and the AdWords team and the YouTube team, the monetization team, making sure that a TrueView is a more efficient product where people, basically they actually do watch the entire ad, and so they don't skip the 4 to 5 seconds. And all you need is a -- given the scale of YouTube today, all you need is to have a product that people want more, and it actually delivers a lot more value in terms of advertising total revenue.

The fact that it's at the top of the funnel clearly has very different dynamics than when you have a very specific performance-based ad that is tied to a very specific high margin query. But that doesn't mean that it's not incredibly useful for advertisers because that's where they start is at the top of the funnel.

These are all of the pieces of the puzzle that we have going for us. And for what's really exciting about YouTube I'll let Omid give you more color comment on this.

OMID KORDESTANI: Hi, Heather. First of all, invite you to come to BrandCast next week. I'll be there in New York and you'll get a sense of the momentum in YouTube. But, really, the way we look at it is, as usual, first look at the users. One-third of all people on the Internet are every day watching hundreds of millions of hours on YouTube and this is generating billions of views.

And then when we look at our advertisers, they want to be there. So, we're seeing strong growth in TrueView with new advertisers. The number grew 45% in 2014. And all of the top 100 global brands have run TrueView ads over the past year.

As they're experiencing success, for example, with Google Preferred -- I think I shared this data earlier -- but 95% of the Preferred campaigns that we study drove a significant lift, an average of 80%. And then more than 30 brands that were new to advertising on YouTube used Google Preferred and then came back and continued to advertise with us afterward. So, just having great success.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Heather, it's a good story all around. We're pretty pleased by it, obviously. Thank you for your question. Candace, we'll go to our next question, please.

OPERATOR: Eric Sheridan, UBS.

ERIC SHERIDAN, ANALYST, UBS: Thanks for taking the questions. And I'll echo the sentiment -- congrats, Patrick, on the decision, and best of luck going forward. My question is more around mobile. I appreciated all the color around the clicks and the CPCs.

But, Omid, maybe you could talk a little bit either qualitatively or quantitatively about the way in which mobile advertising, especially search, is evolving over time, and whether some of the gaps that we used to talk about one or two years ago are starting to close in terms of monetization, whether it be dictated by screen sizes or people getting more comfortable, or maybe some of the changes you will be making around mobile search with some of the ranking that we've seen gone into effect this week. I would love to get some color about how you've seen mobile evolve and how you see it evolve going forward. Thanks.

OMID KORDESTANI: Sure, let me just give you some thoughts. Again, thank you for this. We're very excited about this pivot to mobile. And it's really obviously a shift that started gradually and it's been very dramatic for us. If you talk to every product manager at Google and leader at Google, they have it at the forefront of their thoughts on how to delight the users, how to improve the experience. Same thing on our advertising front.

So, one is obviously the efforts we're doing for the discovery, the search for information, be it in the apps or be it on mobile web. The other aspect of this that is really going to help us obviously with the monetization front is the improvements in measurement -- measuring across devices, measuring in-store sales. And, as you know, the shopping experience becomes more powerful because users can find this information, they can find it with local products.

It doesn't become just about driving leads to online retailers, it's about driving traffic to off-line storage via mobile. And we're seeing great adoption from retailers -- from Macy's, REI, Sears.

The way we're going to talk about this, and you are going to hear us talk more about this, is this intent and immediacy that we are so good at, given our heritage in search. And we're just applying all of that knowledge and all of the experience we have an ads and search to improving these mobile experiences and how we monetize. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Anthony DiClemente.

ANTHONY DICLEMENTE, ANALYST: How are you, Patrick? Congratulations and best wishes on your next endeavors. A couple questions. First I want to ask about Maps and Waze. It seems to me like those are very strategic assets, assets and businesses where Google has a competitive advantage. Can you just talk about the progress and the user experiences with Maps and the opportunity going forward for the contribution to the business from those platforms?

And then, secondly, Patrick, given your telecom background, can you just please describe for us the strategy around the Project Fi that was announced this week? How does that connect back to the other Google access initiatives like Google Fiber? And maybe just talk about the longer-term vision there. Thanks.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Great. Do you want to jump in first?

OMID KORDESTANI: Yes, sure. This is Omid. Thank you, Anthony, for the question. On the Maps, we absolutely agree with you -- very strategic, very popular. And that there are more than 1 billion monthly active users of the Google map services.

We have mapped the world, as you know, 200 countries and territories, including North Korea. 1 billion times the app has been downloaded on Android. And lots and lots of stats that I can go through.

And I think one of the things that we're doing is not only to improve that experience and integrate it as much as it makes sense to throughout the services, and whenever users can take advantage of those signals in the proper response from Google. But the other side of this is also partnering. One of the things we're really actively doing is partnering, getting our map service in native formats with as many partners out there that can take advantage of it.

It's an area we are really investing in. We're very excited about it. It's having great traction and we are also happy to offer it to our partners. And you'll see us, both in terms of Maps and Waze, you will see it getting integrated in other popular web services out there.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Great. On my side, there's quite a different rationale, if you think of Fi versus Access which is really asset-based. As a reminder, some of you may have heard, we just announced Fi yesterday so it's still very early days. It's focused on innovating in connectivity and communications, but in close partnerships with carriers in the US -- hardware makers.

We're trying to see, again from a user perspective and from a service perspective, with or without assets, what should look like the next wave of innovation. If you're always looking to make the web faster, cheaper, more available, and we wanted to try this new vision, this new idea of a fast and easy wireless service. And then work with the ecosystem of our carriers -- so, that's why we have T-Mobile and Sprint as launch carriers -- and manufacturers and developers to develop this kind of new product, new and innovative service.

So, different in the sense that, Anthony, in the case of fiber, in the case of Loon, it's really asset-based; this one is really about services and how can we use today's platforms to actually just drive for more innovation. So, that's really the difference. But we're pretty excited. It'll be interesting to see the take rate and it'll be interesting to see how the market response is to it. But, again, very much as usual, focused on innovation, focused on pushing the envelope. Thanks for your question.

OPERATOR: Stephen Ju, Credit Suisse.

STEPHEN JU, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Patrick, bon voyage and best of luck with everything. I'm trying to get some sense of the direction of costs involved in running YouTube. Granted, there's the revenue share components, the content owners, but then there's the everyday operating costs involving just running the business, like engineers, bandwidth, et cetera. So, I'm wondering at this point, what part of YouTube's cost base is variable and what part is fixed, because it seems like your revenue is now large enough to cover the costs to serve a user, as the cost in the aggregate is probably not growing as rapidly as revenue.

And, additionally, even as we adjust for the reclassification of DoubleClick to network, the [L&O] line decelerated a bit more than we thought. So I'm just wondering if this is just due to Play indexing higher against those countries, that saw the highest amount of FX headwinds. Or did you have some sort of hardware shortage issues this quarter also? Thanks.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Let's start with the last one first and then I'll come back to YouTube. On other revenues, what you have in there is, yes, you're right that we have the re-class. And then on the two other factors, clearly Play is going really well. But it is also hit by quite strong headwinds. So, we're very pleased with the performance of Play, but given that it has quite a large international skew, it also gets hit by headwinds of FX, as well.

And then on the hardware side, no shortage this quarter, so no shortage issues versus the 4 to 6. So, that's been performing quite well. But, again, when you look at year-over-year comparisons for hardware, then last year we had the new Nexus 7 tablet that was very popular. Then you have a bit of noise on the comparisons year over year. So, you have the combination of these three things that are flowing through the line, so that's why you end up with that kind of performance. But what's most important is FX-adjusted we continue to be very pleased with the Play growth.

On YouTube, interestingly -- obviously we don't divulge any of the details of what's fixed and what's variable and any of this -- but what I can tell you is we actually monitor the performance of YouTube for its profitability to make sure that it continues to grow profitably. And we basically manage with Susan to reinvest at the right pace, if you wish. So, fueling the growth where it is showing up, and keeping tight in areas where we need more efficiencies.

That's how we manage. I've said this in the past, I'll say it again -- if you just want to make YouTube profitable tomorrow morning it's very easy. You put on the brakes on growth and then it just turns into a profitable business. We continue to work that tension where Susan has the carrot of as much profitability I can generate, I can reinvest at a certain pace, so it creates a great incentive for this growth and disciplined behavior that we have there. So, we're pretty pleased by it. Thank you so much for your question, Stephen. Candace?

OPERATOR: Ross Sandler, Deutsche bank.

ROSS SANDLER, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Great. I just had two quick follow-ups from the last question and then one for Nikesh. Patrick, on the operating margin question, given the increased discipline you talked about last call, do you think this flat margin is sustainable in 2015? And if not what would cause it to drop back down year on year?

And then, from the prior questions, this new other revenue line was up like 23% in the quarter, I think it was like 19% or 20% last quarter. So, surprising at the accelerations in there given the FX trends. Can you just talk about, is that Google Play or is that hardware between those two?

And then Nikesh, there's been some talk of Google introducing custom audience products for AdWords. Is that something you are willing to talk about? And how big of a targeting feature like that could be in terms of improving our lives and increasing spend in search?

PATRICK PICHETTE: Ross, on my side, two points. One is on the issue of margin, you know we don't give guidance, so I can't pronounce myself for the rest of 2015. But I think that in Q1 you see a good example of what we talked about when we had our comments in Q4, which is we drive for that right balance -- that right balance of you want to fuel as much as possible, responsibly, the growth that we have in the areas where we want to invest, and in other areas we may decide that actually [we really torque] for efficiencies all the time.

You see that in our Q1 results. In fact, I didn't mention it but just a note on the headcount, the vast majority of headcount for Q1 is in fact engineers and product managers. It's not G&A, it's not sales, it's really focused on engineering because that's where we wanted to put the emphasis. I'm using this as an example of, even though the numbers are large in a number of areas, there is actually a lot of science applied to every one of these numbers to make sure that we continue to drive for high efficiencies as much as we can.

You may have heard that in Q1, we've canceled another program that we had which was the helpouts. This program did not prove the promises that we had for it, and so we actually repurposed the team and shut down the entire initiative.

Again, I'm just giving you the signal that this is a disciplined organization that looks at the facts, that actually when it's not working people can sense it and then we have a good conversation about it. And then on the other side, when we see something really going well, we want to make sure that we push hard for it.

In the case of the second piece that you've asked, which was the growth in other revenue, I think Play is doing very well. We are very happy about that. And, yes, we're having good results on the Nexus 6 but year over year it wasn't as strong as what had given the strength of the Nexus 7 last year. So, that's really been that big driver.

And as for Nikesh, Nikesh, I heard, is on his way to India right now. He was on a plane. But I have Omid here who will be delighted to answer your question.

ROSS SANDLER: I'm sorry about that.

OMID KORDESTANI: No problem. People confuse us. On these rumors about custom audiences, we are very much focused on completing this cycle of better targeting and measurement attribution at all points of the funnel with our different products. We're not announcing any new products at this point, but we have a great number of targeting options, interest, intent, location across all the services, from performance to brand. And I think you will see us innovate here, and continue to innovate here. Thank you.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thank you, Russ. And I didn't mean to pick on you. We all trip over Nikesh and Omid all the time. He's used to it.

ROSS SANDLER: I put down Nikesh on my notes. Sorry about that.

PATRICK PICHETTE: No worries. Candace, let's go to our next question please.

OPERATOR: Peter Stabler, Wells Fargo.

PETER STABLER, ANALYST, WELLS FARGO SECURITIES: Good afternoon. Thanks for taking the question. Patrick, thanks for all the color around the click information. It begs another question, though. Given the frequency with which a lot of us misinterpret these numbers, and given the growing importance of brand advertising, and the accompanying expansion of attribution and ROI modeling to measure impact beyond simple clicks, I'm wondering if these metrics have outlived their usefulness, and whether you guys are considering a way to help us understand your success behind brand advertising going forward. Thanks very much.

PATRICK PICHETTE: We look at this on a regular basis. We just happened to see on the YouTube side so much change in the last couple quarters that we thought it was worth mentioning. I think they've served us well. If we ever decide to look at different ways to look at the business and want to report it that way we will let you know. For now we have really no difference in changes in the way that we reported. So that's the short answer, Peter.

I think we have time for one last question so why don't we take one last question before we close the call? Candace?

OPERATOR: Mark May, Citi.

MARK MAY, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Thanks for taking my questions. There's a view out there that consumer behavior is different on mobile versus desktop in terms of search and web usage versus apps. I'm just wondering, are you seeing that from your users as they shift from the desktop to mobile devices? In essence, is the growth in mobile search activity offsetting the weakness that you may be seeing in desktop search?

And then second question is just on verticals by advertiser verticals. We had heard some data points during the quarter around potentially some weakness in the e-commerce category. Just wondering if you could comment a little bit on maybe some verticals where you saw particular strength and weakness. Thanks.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thank you, Mark, for the question. Let me just take the vertical one first. In terms of performance we definitely saw automotive and travel were stronger verticals this quarter. India was a strong performer as far as the geo goes for us. And those are really some of the areas that I could highlight.

And I think in terms of this behavior change, we are really focused on studying it every day. The shift is very dramatic. And that we are laser-focused on being as good and relevant and fast and monetized well-- all the things that we did on the desktop and continue to do on the desktop to do that on mobile.

I think all I can say on that is you are right, behaviors are different. There's this immediacy, having this device always with you, using it as your assistant, using your voice to make commands and getting results, using the maps, and being in a moment of purchase decision and relying on this information source to help you. So, all of those things are really powerful and we are very excited about it. It's a journey that we are all on and looking forward to doing a better job and monetizing well. So, thank you, Mark for your question.

Before I close, allow me just 10 seconds. First, Ruth will join us in about a month. We're really excited to have her. I will be here to help her in transition. But you'll hear a much better voice in Q2 on the earnings call. We're really looking forward to having her as part of the team.

It obviously has been a delight to work at Google for the last seven years. I have obviously three thanks, three huge thanks for that.

The first one is to the Google community. As Omid mentioned all of these Googlers are simply extraordinary individuals and people, these men and women. They just continue to develop this stream of innovation that is really changing the world and making it a better place. So, it's been a real joy to work with every one of them.

My colleagues around this table, the IR team, as well as the executive group that I have spent many hours over the years. They're mostly friends now, so thank you for your friendship and all of your warmth over the last few years.

Then finally, you, the financial community, our shareholders. You've been supportive, you've been probing, you've had the insights, you've been really with us for the last seven years through thick and thin, as we have seen a lot of stuff come and go. And really a strong supporters for this a bit crazy, unconventional company. So I just need to thank you, as well, for all the great times together.

With that, yes, I am going to grab my backpack and take off for the world. So, you may see me somewhere in the world and if you do just please do stop and say hi. It would be a delight to see you.

So with that, I'll let Candace close the call. Thank you so much and we'll see you -- or Ruth will see you -- in Q2. Cheers.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for participating in today's conference. This does conclude the program and you may all disconnect. Have a great day, everyone.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
goog : Google Inc.
   IN
i8395464 : Internet Search Engines | iint : Internet/Online | itech : Technology
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Financial Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | uk : United Kingdom | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020150426eb4n000gr
  


 HD
 Q4  2014 Google Inc Earnings Call - Final
   WC
9,947 words
   PD
29 January 2015
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©015 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day, everyone, and welcome to the Google Inc fourth-quarter 2014 earnings conference call. This call is being recorded.

   TD
At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Ellen West, Vice President, Investor Relations. Please go ahead.

ELLEN WEST, VP OF IR, GOOGLE INC.: Thanks so much, Jamie.

Good afternoon, everyone, and welcome to Google's fourth-quarter 2014 earnings conference call. With us today are Patrick Pichette and Omid Kordestani.

As you know, we distribute our earnings release through our Investor Relations website, located at investor.google.com. So please refer to our IR website for our earnings releases, as well as the supplementary slides that accompany the call. This call is also being webcast from investor.google.com. A replay of the call will be available on our website later today.

Now let me quickly cover the Safe Harbor. Some of the statements that we make today may be considered forward-looking, including statements regarding Google's future investments, our long-term growth and innovation, the expected performance of our businesses, and our expected level of capital expenditures. These statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially.

Please note that these forward-looking statements reflect our opinions only as of the date of this presentation and we undertake no obligation to revise or publicly release the results of any revisions to these forward-looking statements in light of new information or future events. Please refer to our SEC filings for a more detailed description of the risk factors that may affect our results.

Please note that certain financial measures that we use on this call, such as operating income and operating margin, are expressed on a non-GAAP basis and have been adjusted to exclude charges related to stock-based compensation and, as applicable, other special items. We have also adjusted our net cash provided by operating activities to remove capital expenditures, which we refer to as free cash flow. Our GAAP results and reconciliations of non-GAAP to GAAP measures can be found in our earnings press release.

With that, I will now turn the call over to Patrick.

PATRICK PICHETTE, SVP & CFO, GOOGLE INC.: Thanks, Ellen, and welcome to 2015, everyone. Before we get into the numbers, I'm going to give a brief overview of our performance this quarter, as the data is actually quite noisy through the P&L.

So to start, let's say that we saw continued strength in our core advertising business. This was really driven by a strong holiday and the mobile performance from our Sites line.

We saw great momentum in our programmatic business, highlighted by our mobile display and our Ads platform products. But we also faced a few real challenges, as well.

On the revenue side, clearly, as you've heard out, the strengthening of the US dollar resulted in a gross negative currency impact of $616 million, just into Q4; but thanks to our hedging program, the net impact was actually attenuated, with a net revenue impact of $468 million. Also, on the other revenue line, not only did we see that negative currency impact really impact the Play growth, particularly in Japan; but also, while the Nexus 7 was very well received as a new phone, we had real issues and unable to secure sufficient inventory to meet the demand that we had forecasted. So for both these factors, in fact, we see lower other revenue growth this quarter.

On the expense side, we had a number of unusual charges to our operating expenses hit this quarter. I'll provide you more details in a few minutes as we go through the conversation, but together these items added up to slightly over $300 million in expenses to our P&L.

Lastly, if you go to the CapEx line, you'll note that we've made real estate purchases in Q4 which helped us relieve pressure on our work space for current employees, but also to accommodate our future growth. And this also resulted in a large sequential increase in our real estate capital expenditures this quarter.

So now that you have the basics, why don't we dive into the details. Our gross total consolidated revenue grew 15% year over year, to $18.1 billion, and was up 10% quarter over quarter. Without currency fluctuations, our gross consolidated revenue growth would have, in fact, been 18% year over year. And despite all the FX pressure, our Google Sites revenue was up a healthy 18% year over year, to $12.4 billion, was up 10% quarter over quarter, in part driven by the strength in our mobile search.

Network revenue was up 6% year over year, at $3.7 billion, and was up 8% quarter over quarter. As a reminder, our Network business includes really two types of businesses with different growth profiles. Our legacy AdSense business, particularly AdSense for Search, where we've continued to make policy changes for the benefit of our user experience, but which has negatively impacted the growth in clicks, specifically.

Our cleanup efforts have resulted in fewer clicks, but also higher CPCs, as I'll discuss in a minute. The other business in the Network line are newer display and programmatic businesses, including AdMob, Ad Exchange, Double Click Bid Manager, and these continue to grow at a strong rate.

Finally, Google's other revenue grew 19% year over year to $2 billion, was up 6% quarter over quarter, driven by year-over-year growth in our Play Store, but offset by the FX impact and the challenges in our hardware business I mentioned earlier.

Our global aggregate paid clicks were up 14% year over year and up 11% quarter over quarter. Aggregate CPCs were down 3% year over year and also down 3% quarter over quarter. And if we go on our monetization by property, the Google site paid clicks were up 25% year over year and up 18% quarter over quarter, with Google Sites CPCs were down 8% year over year and down 8% quarter over quarter.

On the Network side, Network paid clicks were down 11% year over year and down 7% quarter over quarter. But our Network CPCs were up year over year 6% and 10% quarter over quarter, for the reasons I mentioned. Our monetization metrics continue to be impacted by a number of factors. They include geographic mix, device mix, property mix, FX, as well as ongoing product and policy changes.

Turning to geographic performance. If you go to our earnings slides, which you'll find on our Investor Relations website, you'll see that we've broken down our revenues by US, UK, and Rest of World to show the impact of FX and the benefits of our hedging program. So please refer to those slides for the exact calculations.

So despite large currency headwinds, we saw solid performance from our core advertising business around the world. The US revenue was up 14% year over year to $7.9 billion.

The UK was up 10% year over year, to $1.7 billion. And in fixed FX terms, it actually grew to 11% year over year.

Non-US revenue, excluding the UK, was up 18% year over year, to $8.6 billion, accounting for 47% of total revenue. And in fixed FX terms, in fact the rest of the world grew at a healthy 24% year over year.

Let me turn now to expenses. Traffic acquisition costs were $3.6 billion, or 22% of advertising revenue. Our non-GAAP other cost of revenue was $3.1 billion in Q4, which exclude SBC, as well.

Our non-GAAP operating expenses totaled $5.8 billion, again, excluding stock-based compensation. And as a result, our non-GAAP operating profit was $5.6 billion and non-GAAP operating margins were 31% in Q4.

As I mentioned at the beginning, we had a number of unusual operating expenses that impacted us this quarter. We typically review our estimates, accounting policies and balance sheet on an ongoing basis and make adjustments when we think and see it necessary. Normally, I wouldn't call out these. But because they totaled slightly over $300 million this quarter, I wanted to give you some sense of these adjustments, although I won't be providing a lot of detailed breakout.

So first, we took approximately half that amount in compensation charges resulting from a one-time payment and a reclassification between SBC and bonus expense. The other half came from a review of our real estate portfolio, where we decided to take a write down on a small number of assets and also one-time payment to buy out a number of leases in a couple of markets where we face acute space pressure.

Head count was up, to just over 2,000 in Q4. In total, we ended the quarter with approximately 53,600 full-time employees.

You'll notice also that our effective tax rate was 16%, again, another discrepancy for Q4 which was really primarily impacted by the extension of the R&D tax credits for 2014, with the entire credit being taken in Q4, as well as continued mix shift from earnings between our domestic and international subsidiaries.

Let me now turn to cash management. Other income and expenses was $128 million. Interest income and realized gains on investments offset the continued impact of expenses from our FX hedging programs. For more detail on OI&E, please refer to the slides that accompany this call on our IR website.

We are pleased with our strong operating cash flow, at $6.4 billion. Our CapEx for the quarter was $3.6 billion. In this quarter, most of the CapEx was spent on related to facilities, production equipment, and data center construction, in that order.

So as I mentioned a few minutes ago, we have been opportunistic about acquiring space in real estate where we need to relieve pressure and accommodate for future growth. To that end, our facilities expenditure included just over $900 million of real estate investments during the quarter, of which $585 million was related to the acquisition of our property in Redwood City that we disclosed in our 10-Q for the third quarter.

Our free cash flow was $2.8 billion. And I also want to note that we completed in Q4 the sale of Motorola Mobility to Lenovo on October 29. We recognized a gain on disposition of $740 million net of tax, which is included in our net income from discontinued operations.

So there you have it. Despite a noisy quarter from a P&L perspective, we can say that we had strong results in our core business, as evidenced by our 18% fixed FX growth this quarter, and are well positioned for the year ahead and the long term.

As Larry says, although the vast majority of our resources and time continue to be invested in our core products, we also have enthusiasm to invest in new, promising ideas, like self-driving cars or Loon. We use the same disciplined approach to these new areas that we used for investing in our earlier bets, like Android or Chrome or Display. Our projects start with small, dedicated teams that are given clear milestones to hit before they can get further investments.

In cases where we achieve success against our milestones, we expand our investments; and you saw this, as an example, earlier this week with our Fiber teams. We green-lighted 18 cities in four metropolitan areas in the US out of the 34 cities and 9 metros that we had reviewed in 2014, and they're off to the races.

In other cases, when the teams aren't able to hit hurdles, but we think there's still a lot of promise, we might ask them to take a pause and take the time to reset their strategy, as we recently did in the case of Glass. And in those situations where projects don't have the impact we had hoped for, we do take make the tough calls. We make the decision to cancel them, and you've seen us do this time and time again.

So before I turn it over to Omid, I'd like also to note that in many ways 2014 was a year of significant investment growth, both in CapEx and OpEx at Google. From an investment perspective, we'll continue to seek a healthy balance between growth and discipline and the willingness to throttle back when we reach the limits of what we believe we can manageably absorb.

So with that in mind, I'll take it over to Omid now to provide more specifics on the successful performance of our core and new businesses. Omid is joining us by phone from another location today, so I'll hand it over to you, Omid.

OMID KORDESTANI, CHIEF BUSINESS OFFICER, GOOGLE INC.: Thanks, Patrick. Hello, everyone. Happy New Year and thanks for joining us today. This is Omid. It's my pleasure to join you from London tonight.

I'm glad to be here to reflect on the last quarter and look ahead to 2015. 2014 ended with healthy momentum, enabling us to achieve $66 billion in revenue for the year.

In Q4, we launched Lollipop, our newest version of Android, refreshed our line of Nexus devices, and introduced Inbox by Gmail, a new inbox that enables users to focus on the messages that matter most to them. Meanwhile, our sales teams worked diligently with our advertising partners to deliver a strong holiday season.

Today, I'll do a quick walk-through of the business highlights from Q4. First, I'll give an overview of the different sectors of our Ads business, performance and brand advertising, and our advertising platforms. Then I'll cover progress in our emerging non-Ads businesses.

Let's begin with the performance advertising. We continue to evolve the foundation of Google's advertising business to reflect a multi-screen, constantly connected world. Mobile is now a behavior, not a device, and it has a variety of unique characteristics.

First, let's talk about local advertising. On mobile, consumers want to know about the stores and goods near them. We launched some exciting updates last quarter.

In October, we announced local availability for Product Listing Ads and Local Storefront, products that give customers real-time information about goods that are in stock, close to where they are. Major retailers like Macy's and REI took advantage of these local inventory ads during the holidays. Overall, we saw strong engagement and results from big box retailers during the holiday season.

A second priority has been the creation of new measurement tools. We recently added estimated store visits to our estimated total conversions measurement suite. Now advertisers can see a reliable estimate of the number of times a search ad click drives a store visit.

During the holidays, ULTA Beauty reported that 12% of clicks on search ads led to a store visit, with significant gains in ROI from their Ad Words Search marketing spend. These mobile specific metrics help advertisers measure the full impact of their mobile marketing.

A third area of progress is apps. We have driven hundreds of millions of app downloads on Google Search, AdMob and YouTube; and this business continues to grow at a healthy clip.

During the holiday season, Office Depot used Google Search ads to promote their Elf Yourself app that helps shoppers create videos of people reimagined as dancing elves. By using Google Search Ads, they saw a 65% conversion rate.

We have recently enabled users to more seamlessly navigate between apps and the web and find what they're looking for in apps more quickly. In organic search, 15% of signed in user searches on Android now return deep links to apps.

We also offer app deep linking in Search Ads. Booking.com using Google Search Ads to drive installs and reengagement via deep linking for their mobile app.

Last quarter, we continued to see great traction with our established mobile advertising products, as well, particularly Google Shopping. Online growth remains strong, with Google Shopping traffic on mobile devices up nearly 100% compared to Q4 2013. For much of the holiday season, mobile shopping clicks exceeded those on desktop, as users increasingly made purchase decisions on the go.

Now I would like to turn to YouTube, where we continue to deliver great results for brand advertisers. YouTube now has more than 1 billion users. Every day, people watch hundreds of millions of hours of video on YouTube, generating billions of views. Watch time is up 50% year over year.

We continue to invest in our YouTube partners, and partner revenue has increased by more than 50% year over year. We're seeing great momentum in mobile advertising on YouTube. Mobile revenue on YouTube is up more than 100% year over year.

TrueView, where advertisers pay only if someone watches their ad, also continues to do very well. Walmart US's holiday performance is one of many success stories.

During the week of Black Friday, they used YouTube's TrueView format to drive a 300% week-over-week increase in views of their channel and more than 28 million views on the week. This was a 600% increase in YouTube channel views over the same week in 2013.

And while we're all anticipating a certain football game in Arizona this weekend, the action has already begun for its advertisers on YouTube. Nearly 70 ads or teasers related to the big game have been posted to YouTube this year, up 55% from the same time last year.

People have already watched them more than 44 million times, up 25% from last year, and for more than 70 million minutes on YouTube, nearly triple the watch time compared to the same point last year. On average, people watched each ad for more than 1.5 minutes.

We continue to develop the tools that make digital work for brand marketers, their agencies and premium publishers. There were two particular areas of focus from Q4 that I would like to highlight; programmatic and measurement.

Let's start with programmatic. Automated ad buying has benefited performance driven advertisers for years. We're now extremely well positioned as brand advertising shifts to programmatic, as well.

We're seeing great traction overall from our advertising and agency partners. Today, all the top 10 global agencies use at least one product in our Double Click suite.

Specific products within the Double Click suite have shown exceptional momentum. Double Click Bid Manager, our primary front end for programmatic buying, has doubled in volume over the past year. During the recent US midterm election, programmatic represented nearly one third of advertisers' Google ad budgets.

We're seeing that video, the ultimate brand medium, is starting to move to programmatic, as well. After launching in June of 2014, Google Partner Select, our premium programmatic video marketplace, now has more than 50 publisher partners, including Hearst television and Food Network, and includes brands like BMW.

Next, we continue to invest in measurement tools that enable advertisers, agencies and publishers to better understand the results of their digital marketing. It starts with addressing the question of viewability. Nothing else matters if a human did not see your ad. This is a top question for the industry and at Google, we're doing our part to address it.

Since July, we have been rolling out viewability report across our ad platforms, so that brands will know whether their video ads on digital channels were actually seen or not. We recently extended this Active View reporting to video ads.

Large advertisers are finding technology like this to be very useful. For example, Kellogg's used Double Click digital marketing to buy their inventory programmatically and increased their ad viewability by 70%.

Once a brand knows that their ads have been viewed, they need to determine if the right people saw those ads and if they made an impact. That's where our tools to measure Brand Lift come in. We have run more than 6,000 Brand Lift surveys to help determine brand recall and purchase intent.

For example, Mondelez wanted to measure the effectiveness of a recent digital campaign for the launch of a gum brand. With Brand Lift, they found a 36% lift in brand awareness versus a control group and a 97% lift in ad recall versus a control group. Getting this type of feedback in real time is impossible with offline media. This sets digital apart.

Let's move now to our emerging non-Ads businesses. Google for Work had a great quarter. We started working with PWC to help them and the companies they advise use Google for Work to move their businesses to the cloud.

Cloud Platform continues to make good progress. We hosted our second Google Cloud platform live event in November, where we announced several new products such as Google Container Engine.

Our digital content businesses are strong. I'm excited about Google Play's development. Movies are now available in more than 102 countries, music in 58, and books in 65. It's growing internationally at unprecedented speed.

In December, we partnered with Sony to digitally release The Interview. It has been publicly reported that the film generated over $15 million in its first weekend, and that Google Play and YouTube drove the majority of those sales.

We launched YouTube Music Key beta, a monthly music subscription service that provides ad-free music, background play and offline viewing. This will also include a subscription to Google Play Music, with more than 30 million songs, expert-curated playlists and more.

Our hardware efforts demonstrated momentum. Just in time for the holidays, we launched the Nexus 6, Nexus 9 and Nexus Players devices.

Chromecast continues to be a hit. Just last week we saw our one billionth tap of the Cast button.

Chromecast usage per device has increased by 60% since launch, due to a growing roster of new apps and features. According to NPD retail tracking service, in 2014 Chromecast was the number one selling streaming media device in the US. Chromebooks are now available in 33 different markets and enjoying strong success in K through 12 education market in the US.

I continue to be impressed by the work of our marketing teams that they've done around the world. The Year in Search has become an instant classic, and YouTube Rewind is fast becoming one. From the Android Be Together Not the Same campaign, to Nest's first TV ads and much more, our marketing team contributed to our success in the all-important Q4 through a wide variety of efforts.

There's the wrap for 2014, and we're excited for what lies ahead in 2015. In closing, I want to thank our great partners, customers and users, without whom we wouldn't be successful. Thank you all so much.

Now let's get back to Patrick for Q&A.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thank you, Omid.

Before we turn to Jamie for Q&A, I was highlighted by the team here that I actually had a slip. I said Nexus 7 instead of Nexus 6. And although the Nexus 7 is still a great device, what I really meant in my comments was to talk about the Nexus 6, is this amazing device that we launched with the Lollipop launch.

So with that, why don't I turn it to Jamie, and we'll go to Q&A. Jamie, if you can give the instructions, please.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions)

And we'll take our first question from Stephen Ju with Credit Suisse.

STEPHEN JU, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Thanks. So Patrick or Omid, I think it's been a few years since you talked to the Street about the run rate of your Display business. So I wanted to see if you're willing to toss us a nugget here in terms of what your gross billings currently may be, recognizing that you may be seeing growth in that revenue contribution, depending on different products.

And also, it looks like the UK revenue saw a modest bit of acceleration on an FX neutral basis. Granted, comps were probably modestly easier. But anything you can call out that helped there? Thanks.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Sure, it's Patrick here. So on both topics, on the UK, we did see a good performance this quarter in the UK versus last quarter. And as you said, mentioned, 11% year-over-year. So the note of the UK is the core business there is doing well.

If you go back to last -- the deceleration, we have -- it's a big portion. It's like 10% of our revenue, or over 10%. You'll remember that in our mix of products that are in the UK, clearly our core products are there, but also AFS, like the Network business is actually prominent in UK, as well as in the US, less so in the rest of the world.

And so that has an issue on the mix. And then also, think of it as a promising item which is, there's areas of new products, such as Play, that are actually stronger international than they would be in the UK or the US. So there lies some of the differences between the growth rates; but in many ways, a lot of opportunities there. So that's what's going on in the UK. Quite pleased with the progress there in Q4.

And then on the issue of display, we haven't updated the numbers to the Street. And so we have to continue to give you the updates that we do. And if we actually have a chance in the future, then we'll let you know when it's time to do so.

So thanks for your questions, Stephen. And we'll go to the next question, please, Jamie.

OPERATOR: And we'll take our next question from Carlos Kirjner with Bernstein.

CARLOS KIRJNER, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & CO.: Hello. Thank you. Two questions, if I may, Patrick. You hired 2,000 people this quarter versus 1,700 in the same quarter last year, which is a 22% increase. But Google management talks a lot about the opportunity front of the business. If that's the case, why aren't you hiring more people and spending more in R&D? Can you tell us what are the specific constraints that you guys have or imposed on yourselves that prevent you from hiring 3,000 people this quarter instead of 2,000? That's the first one.

The second is the following. A few quarters ago, I seem to recall you saying that you did not manage the business for margins, but you manage it for profit growth. Yet your operating income is down year-on-year; and even if you are, the $200 million is growing very slowly. You could see how investors would look at that and say, well, how do you reconcile these things? How do you think investors should think about this trajectory of operating income growth? Thank you.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Okay. So let's take them in -- each in step. On the issue of hiring, you'll notice that relative to last quarter also, which is -- our third quarter is typically a big quarter, because we get the influx of the hires we do at colleges and otherwise. We actually decelerated from the third quarter, as well.

What we are managing for is we just have a very high bar for hiring. If you can pass the bar, then we hire you. We also have capacity constraints on leadership. Like there's a natural kind of number that you can absorb within the culture of Google. It's really important not to lose that culture and to have velocity, to have traction. So there's no sense bringing 5,000 people that we couldn't bring into the teams and really make them perform.

So what we manage on the hiring is we have our plans. And so we have a range of targets, of hires per each of the pals and the areas in the Company. And then from there, the next hurdle is really about can we find these people? And then finally, just making sure that we keep this kind of balance of bringing at a reasonable rate, so that we can actually absorb them in the Company without losing the velocity and the culture of the place.

So it's actually a pretty complex puzzle, but we're managing it. It's never perfect, but we're managing it to the best we can. So that's the first question.

On the issue of margins, look, we have different -- if you think of the businesses in Google, we're looking for growth. We're looking for growth in revenue. We're looking for growth in operating profits absolute dollars. And we're looking for great returns on investments. That's the puzzle we solve for.

So you have an advertising business that may have higher margins, lower capital intensity than, say, another business, which may be Play, which has much lower margins, great prospect for growth, with very large pools of revenue and margins available, and we'd go after them for sure. You have Fiber, and in the access, which has a completely different kind of capital intensity. But again, the question is does it promise, or does it have a case for large dollars, operating profit delivery and high revenue, and then a decent return on capital. That's how we manage it.

And to say, okay, well, we have what we have today, but if Play could grow at, just to take the case, 10 times faster than it is doing right now, it would impact margin, because on the weighted average basis, it would drag it down. But we'd love it. We'd love to be able to grow Play 10 times faster than we are today. So that's how we think of the puzzle. We manage them each individually for their potential, their returns. We all look for these big margin pools and these big revenue pools, and then we just allocate our capital to make sure that it's balanced across these initiatives for maximum velocity. That's the way we think about it, Carlos.

CARLOS KIRJNER: Thank you.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thank you very much for your question. Jamie, let's go to our next question, please.

OPERATOR: And we'll go next to Anthony DiClemente with Nomura.

ANTHONY DICLEMENTE, ANALYST, NOMURA SECURITIES: Thanks a lot for the questions. I have two. Patrick, given the importance of Google's stock price as a motivator for existing employees, for recruitment of new employees, I think many investors out there wonder if we're getting closer to a point where it might be a wise use of resources to return capital to shareholders. Other large tech companies do it. Nearly all the media companies do. At what point would you -- what point would the Board of Google consider capital returns?

And then second question is, I was just wondering on the switch of the default browser on Mozilla from Google to Yahoo in the quarter and going forward, is there any way you could quantify the impact of that? And investors also wondering is it possible that could happen for your Safari agreement with Apple. Thanks a lot.

PATRICK PICHETTE: So why don't I take the last question first, and then the first question. The last question is, you've all heard the announcement about Mozilla. And so we don't comment on the details of any of our partnerships that we have. Having said that, we continue to do two things that really matter.

One is, our users continue to actually go in -- if they love Google, they'll continue to find Google, whichever platform, whichever browser. And that's really what we're focused on doing. And then the second piece is, the way to win on this in the long term, right? It's very simple. You just make wonderful products. And when you make wonderful products that are magical, people will find them.

And so that's the strategy that we're using. And we just don't comment on any of our -- we've never commented on any of our deals. So we won't comment on Mozilla, either.

And then for your first question, Anthony, again, I just can reiterate the same message that I give on a regular basis, which is share price does matter. It matters to our Board. It matters to all of us.

We're all shareholders in the Company, and we do review this issue on a regular basis. We reviewed it again responsibly with the Audit Committee, with the Board. And I just have nothing to announce today.

ANTHONY DICLEMENTE: Thank you.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thank you so much for your question, Jamie. Let's go to our next question, please.

OPERATOR: And we'll take our next question from Eric Sheridan with UBS.

ERIC SHERIDAN, ANALYST, UBS: Thanks for taking the questions. One on device mix, which Omid, you called out. Is there any sense you can give us of whether some of the pricing per ad unit is starting to close from the device mix? So even though you're getting more volumes from mobile, whether it be smartphone or tablet, we're starting to see any impact that pricing continues to move up versus desktop pricing you're seeing across your ad portfolio? Would love any commentary around that.

And then second, Patrick, you called out the FX impact in Q4. Any help you can give us on how we should be thinking about the FX impact going forward on either a gross or a net basis to the business, as you see it versus spot today? Thanks.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Sure. I'll let Omid answer the first question, then I'll jump on the second.

OMID KORDESTANI: Sure. Thanks, Eric, for the question. You know, the way we look at this, as I said, we look at mobile as a behavior today really, versus a specific device. And people are using screens interchangeably, simultaneously throughout the day.

And we really think about the user and the context, rather than a particular form factor or device; and similarly, in terms of the pricing model here. What we are focused on really building this ecosystem. Just the way desktop took a long time to develop and have the right ad formats that really took advantage that the platform had to offer, we're looking at this the same way.

We are developing different kinds of formats, working with marketers on mobile, estimated store visits, app install, app re-engagement ads, and cross device conversions. And we really feel good about the traction we're having. And our sales team and advertiser agencies' partners are working with us, making rapid progress here.

So unfortunately, I can't disclose any specific breakdowns, but I can just say that we're very focused on all aspects of this. Just as we evolved to desktop, we're doing the same in this world. On to you, Patrick.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thank you. On the issue of FX, I think that the most important point to think about in Q4 is, it was material. As I said, it was on a gross basis, over $600 million. You've all see the deterioration of the euro, the GDP, the yen versus the US dollar.

The one thing I would just note from our results in Q4, I mentioned this in the past, that our FX rates are set at Google a month in arrears. So in last week of November, we would have set our FX rates for December. So interestingly, the December rates will set January. And you've seen already in December a continued kind of nose dive in certain areas, especially the euro and the yen. So all I can say is for all the information we have right now is that's not going away. And I think that everybody should be considering it.

On the flip side of that, I just want to reinforce the fact that our FX hedging program continues to do exactly what it's supposed to do, which is in a low volatility environment, we buy insurance; and in moments where we have such shocks like we're having right now, we did get a lot of benefit out of this hedging program. Just as a reminder, we hedge profits. We don't hedge revenue. It just happened that we book the profits to revenue because of the accounting rules. And so we've seen in Q4 approximately $150 million of hedge benefits, which is actually quite a substantial amount on the total of $600 million. And we'll continue to have hedge benefits through the course of the year, to a certain extent. So I think that from that perspective, real hit in December additional, but in a good position from our FX program.

ERIC SHERIDAN: Great. Thank you so much.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thank you for those questions. Jamie, why don't we go to our next question, please.

OPERATOR: And we'll go next to Ross Sandler with Deutsche Bank.

ROSS SANDLER, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Great. I had two questions. Patrick, towards the end of the prepared remarks, you said that Google will show a balance of growth and discipline and a willingness to throw a little back.

Can you just elaborate on that comment? What do you mean when you say that? Are you referring to the pace of expense growth, or throwing something back in terms of capital allocation? Just a little clarity on that one.

And then, Omid, the question on app indexing. I think you guys said in November that logged in searches have about 15% coverage in terms of app content. Where's that percentage today, and when do you guys think it will be closer to 100%? Thanks.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Ross, let me -- it's Patrick. Let me jump in on the first question, then I'll let Omid answer the second. On the first one, all I wanted to highlight to our investors, shareholders and community at large is, as I said, 2014 was a year of significant investment in growth.

We see real potential in so many areas that are exciting to us, and where we see great momentum, that what I wanted to make sure is that our investors continue to understand that we will push for growth, but in a disciplined manner. And if things don't materialize in the way that you don't hit your hurdles, you don't hit your timing, we are actually disciplined to make sure that we don't have expenses ahead of the curve and we continue to monitor it quite closely.

So in that sense, if we see conditions change, it's really important that you have the confidence that when we manage these investments, we do it in a prudent manner. Optimistic, but there's always a dose of circumspection, to make sure that you get the best bang for your buck in these roll-outs.

And that's what I really wanted to communicate and signal to the Street, which is, it's a balance. It's always about a balance. But given our situation, given all of the results that we've had, 18% year-over-year growth in our Sites. If you just look at the Sites, which is the core of the business, growing 18% year-over-year, despite all the FX headwinds, it just tells you, look, this is a license to continue to invest smartly in the way we do.

But I just want to reaffirm to you that we do it in a smart way and in a disciplined manner. We're driving to make sure we don't waste our shareholders' money. So with that, I'll turn it over to Omid to answer the first question, please.

OMID KORDESTANI: Yes. Thanks, Ross. So as I said in my opening remarks, that 15% of signed in users' searches on Android now return deep links to apps.

The way we're focused on this is that we have opened up app indexing to all Android developers, so that their apps can appear in searches also linking directly to the right content in the apps. And it really becomes the job between the developers trying to understand intent and how, obviously, our search works and determining the best results to provide, including the deep links.

We offer this deep linking in Search Ads as well. Booking.com used Google Search Ads to drive installs and re-engagement via deep linking for their mobile app. And we're seeing more and more adoption like this by our advertisers. So obviously, it's an area we're going continue making progress on. We're very pleased with the traction we're having and how mobile monetization is performing. Thank you.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thanks for your question, Ross. Let's go to our next question, Jamie, please.

OPERATOR: And we'll go next to Ben Swinburne with Morgan Stanley.

BEN SWINBURNE, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Thank you. Patrick, just going back to return of capital again, there's some news today that there's a potential bill to allow repatriation of cash back to the US at a 6% tax rate. I'm wondering, would that impact how you and the Board think about return of capital, or is that a completely irrelevant and separate point?

And then second, for either of you, any color you can share with us on your wireless ambitions? I think both on the MVNO side and 3.5 gigahertz, there's been a lot of discussion in the press about what Google's up to. Any update you can give us on that would be great.

PATRICK PICHETTE: On the second question -- thank you for your questions, Ben -- and on the second question that you've asked, there's a lot of speculation out there. And if we had to answer of every speculation on Google's part, what's going on, it would be -- my PR team would be really busy. So we just won't comment on any speculative news.

On the first question, on return on capital, absolutely. We have right now a mix of roughly 60/40 between our US -- US 40, international 60, of our cash. We have good use for our cash in both places. But if in fact, we had a lot more flexibility about repatriating cash, that would make a big difference in the way that we think about it. Or at least we'd take it in consideration, for sure, in our dialogue with the Board.

And so it's clearly one element that's part of the puzzle that we would take in consideration. So if there's anything you can do to get that thing through Congress, we would really love it. And just let us know when that happens.

BEN SWINBURNE: I will call my Congress person. Thank you.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thank you so much. All right, Jamie, we're going to go to our next question, please.

OPERATOR: And we'll go next to Douglas Anmuth with JPMorgan.

DOUGLAS ANMUTH, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Thanks for taking the question. You've had greater emphasis on e-commerce over the last few years, with Google Shopping and Express. Was hoping you could give us an update on Google Wallet and how strategic that is to your business overall and closing the loop of payments in general.

And then secondly, can you comment, Patrick, on whether there was just anything in particular in driving the gap that we saw on Sites between paid click volume and CPCs, beyond some of the normal mix shift issues and FX? Thanks.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Why don't you I take the second question immediately, and then I'll let Omid answer the issue of the commerce. So on the first one, look, I want to come back on the Sites issue, because 25% and then the minus 8%, in terms of click growth and CPCs. And I want to start with that, because that's always -- when people just focus on one, we kind of tend to forget the big picture, which is it's a mix of these two things that give you this revenue that's been very strong in Sites this quarter. So never look at them in isolation.

Having said that, as I said in my prepared remarks, the monetization metrics for Sites has all the factors that I usually discuss, which is geographic, device, property, the FX, and all of the things I talked about. So I think it'd be misguided again this quarter to pin it down to just one trend. I think people have a tendency to say, okay, well, it's mobile or it's FX.

But I'd like to point out three things specifically this quarter. As we know, as I already mentioned, FX has been a big impact this quarter. I also noted the strength of mobile performance in our Sites earlier. And I'd remind you that our Sites line also includes YouTube, where we continue to see impressive growth, both in developed countries and emerging markets. So there's the rest of it. There's all these pieces. But these are some of the pieces that we should take note during this quarter. Does that make sense? I would turn it over to Omid to answer the first question on what's going on with Google Shopping, et cetera.

OMID KORDESTANI: On Shopping and commerce in general, and then I'll talk on payments, really our focus is building products that turn consumers' shopping intents into actions, quickly, easily, and enabling businesses to connect and retain these customers.

On payments, the goal is really to remove all the friction that one encounters now in the shopping experience. And what we're really working on here is move beyond just tap and pay and have a full functional payment system. Today, users can send money to friends through Gmail using the Wallet app. And we also just made this functionality available in the UK. Loyalty gift cards can be stored on the Wallet app. The Buy with Google button makes it possible for users to purchase with two clicks. So we really are focused on building a rich offering here to make it easier to shop and pay and remove the friction. Thank you, Doug.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thank you so much for your question, Doug.

DOUGLAS ANMUTH: Thank you.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Jamie, let's go to our next question, please.

OPERATOR: And we'll go next to Justin Post with Merrill Lynch.

JUSTIN POST, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Thank you. I don't know if you can help us at all, but just an overview of core search growth at all, if you can, in some of your mature markets, any way to break down that at all? And then as you think about the Search improvements you've made, just a little high level overview.

Obviously, you had some big changes with PLAs and enhanced campaigns over the last couple years. Didn't seem like there was a lot for this holiday, but maybe outline some of the improvements you've made recently. And then how's your pipeline looking for this year? Thank you.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Omid, do you want to take that question?

OMID KORDESTANI: I'll start, and then we can add more context, if you have more color you need, Justin. So in terms of product listing ads, PLAs, it's a very successful product and we're really pleased with its performance. Advertisers are very pleased with it.

And we also have Local Inventory ads that enable merchants to show customers information in the US, UK, France, Germany, Japan and Australia, and obviously, we're going to continue to expand that. As I said in my remarks, we added estimated store visits in December, and it's been one year since we launched estimated total conversions.

And just to give you some anecdotes with customers, Petsmart saw 10% to 18% of clicks on Search Ads led to store visits. And they're now investing more in Ads to reach customers across multiple screens. Famous Footwear, nationwide chain of 1,100 stores, they found that 15% to 17% of the clicks on Ads resulted in store visits, and they were able to mix up the products that they promote in their in-store merchandising strategies by region.

So for us, it's early to think about the impact to revenue, but we really expect these suite of products to continue to help the advertisers measure the full value of their online spending and work with us to enhance those. In terms of specific search numbers, we don't really break that down and provide any more data on that. Thank you for your question.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thank you, Justin. We'll have a couple more questions. So Jamie, let's go to our next question, please.

OPERATOR: And we'll go next to Mark Mahaney with RBC Capital Markets.

MARK MAHANEY, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Thanks. I'll echo Stephen Ju's comment earlier. I think it would be great if you broke out the nonperformance advertising at some point in the future. That data point would be very helpful.

The CPC trends on Sites, that inflected back down after showing a positive trend. It's hard to think that that's nothing but FX. I know you have this mix of other factors. So could you just clarify that, or could you quantify what CPC Sites, CPCs would have been year-over-year, ex-FX?

And then finally, Omid, could you talk broadly about YouTube, and you've come back, you're more engaged with the Company. I think there's a bit of a change in management's approach, I think, to YouTube and how you want to position it. I know it's a broad question, but could you just talk about what you want to do differently with YouTube going forwards the next few years? Thank you.

PATRICK PICHETTE: So on the first question, why don't I jump in, and then I'll let Omid talk about Q2. Look, as I mentioned just a minute ago, if you look at the Sites CPCs, we purposefully actually don't point to one item, like I think it would be tempting to just say, okay, it's all FX this quarter. Because geography has a big impact.

As I mentioned, the different properties on our Sites, YouTube has an impact, as well, in the sense that it's growing and it's growing in emerging markets, as well as in its core, more developed markets. I purposefully made the case that it's important to note that on the mobile side, I think that we see continued strength in mobile. And so from that perspective, it's always trying to catch up to the desktop, which itself is always improving. But we see positive trend there.

So it is a mix of all these factors. And we don't give down all of the details on a quarter-by-quarter basis, because they just move all over the place. So that's the answer for that one, Mark. Sorry, that's not Mark. And then I'll let Omid answer the question on YouTube.

OMID KORDESTANI: Sure. So first of all, in general, just to give you a sense of this, as you said, I've come back. And I just spent a lot of time in CES here in Europe, spending time with customers, as well.

And there's just tremendous excitement about YouTube. And over 1 billion people come to the service every month, and YouTube mobile revenue is up more than 100% year to year. And what we're really after here is finding the click for brand, GRP brand lift, other metrics. And advertisers are already running Brand Lift studies, about 6,000 of them have done this already with us.

And what's really unique about this service is the velocity that the creators enjoy to create and deliver content to a worldwide audience. And our investment in the service, in the creators, just continues to pay back for us. So I know, based on my meetings, I spent a lot of time with consumer goods companies at CES, with major agencies there, everybody just wants to do more. There are a lot of success stories, the way they engage with us.

And for us, the challenge, frankly, is to structure our sales organization, hire the right people to go deeper with these customers, with our agencies. And so you'll just see a lot of success and emphasis from us, as we go after the branding dollars.

MARK MAHANEY: Thanks, Omid.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thank you so much, Mark. Jamie, we're going to take one more question. So if you can turn it on, please.

OPERATOR: And we'll go next to Mark May with Citi.

MARK MAY, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Two questions, please. Could you tell us what your strategy is in the area of digital payments? And is there a way that you can leverage Android to develop a differentiated product in the market?

And then secondly -- sorry if I missed this -- but how should we be thinking about the strategic and the financial importance of Search partnerships. For instance, the Safari deal.

And if there's anything that we should be reading into the recent changes at Mozilla. And I think before that, Spotlight and Siri Search, as far as either Google's strategy and thinking in this area or its competitiveness in these deals? Thanks. Sorry, it's a lot, but thanks.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Okay, Mark. No problem. So I'll take the second question, and then I'll flip it over to Omid to answer the Wallet one. On the issue of partnerships, Google has a lot of partnerships. It's an anchor of our strategy, because it actually gets us distribution, distribution is good, and so we always look for partnerships in many spaces. Partnerships have to be win-wins; and in that sense, we will always look for those combinations.

But also at the end of the day, there's a second piece of the strategy which is, as I said earlier, building amazing products. Because if you build amazing products, then people want to distribute your product. And so that's why we have Omid and the whole Search team that actually do this amazing job through the knowledge graph and all of the other elements of Search.

And no matter the device, no matter the location, no matter the time of day, if we give you the answers you're looking for in 10 clicks less than it was before, and then even faster and better all the time, that's what wins. And that's the core of what we're focused on, and then people will find a way to get to Google.

So yes, partnerships matter. But at the core of it, you need partnerships because you have a phenomenal product. And that's what we're going to continue to build in this amazing company. So I'll let, with that, Omid talk about our developments for digital payments.

OMID KORDESTANI: Hello, Mark. I already addressed this a little earlier. So I'll summarize it again. We're really after removing the friction here in all the products to improve commerce and make the experience for our users seamless here.

And there's really two areas we're focused on. One is really building a full functional payment system that just is beyond tap and pay. So I mentioned that earlier, using Gmail and the Wallet app to send money to friends, loyalty and gift cards, and Buying with Google button with the press of two clicks. And we just -- the NFC devices are available, and we are really getting closer and closer to broader merchant adoption.

And so you'll see us emphasizing that through the devices that we're supporting out there, as well as the payment services and commerce services that we provide. So I think you'll see a lot of progress here, as we, as I said, try to remove the friction here.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thank you so much for your question, Mark. Omid, I need to thank you. You're at the other end of the world and staying late for us. I think I just can't thank you enough for all of your support.

OMID KORDESTANI: My pleasure. We're excited about the year ahead and looking forward to future updates with this group of people. Thank you.

PATRICK PICHETTE: For all of you, thank you again for your support in 2014. Welcome to 2015. And I couldn't stop without thanking again all of our partners, our users, and lastly, our employees, all Googlers around the world that makes this magic happen every day. Couldn't do it without you, so thank you again. And Jamie, I'll let you close the call on this.

OPERATOR: Thank you. That does conclude today's conference. We do appreciate everyone's participation. Please have a great day.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
gognew : Google Inc | goog : Alphabet Inc.
   IN
iappsp : Cloud Computing | i8394 : Computer Services | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | i8395464 : Internet Search Engines | iint : Internet/Online | itech : Technology
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Financial Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | uk : United Kingdom | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020150131eb1t008px
  


 HD
 Q3  2014 Google Inc Earnings Call - Final
   WC
9,818 words
   PD
16 October 2014
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©014 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day, and welcome, everyone, to the Google Inc third-quarter 2014 earnings conference call. This call is being recorded.

   TD
At this time I'd like to turn the call over to Ellen West, Vice President, Investor Relations. Please go ahead.

ELLEN WEST, VP OF IR, GOOGLE INC.: Thank you, Jamie.

Good afternoon, everyone, and welcome to Google's third-quarter 2014 earnings conference call. With us today are Patrick Pichette and Omid Kordestani.

As you know, we released our earnings release through our investor relations website, located at investor. Google.com. So please refer to our IR website for our earnings releases, as well as the supplementary slides that accompany the call. You can also visit our Google+ Investor Relations page for the latest Company news and updates.

This call is also being webcast from investor. Google.com. A replay of the call will be available on our website later today.

Now, let me quickly cover the Safe Harbor. Some of the statements that we make today may be considered forward-looking, including statements regarding Google's future investments, our long-term growth and innovation, the expected performance of our businesses, and our expected level of capital expenditures. These statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties, that could cause actual results to differ materially.

Please note that these forward-looking statements reflect our opinions only as of the date of this presentation, and we undertake no obligation to revise or publicly release the results of any revisions to these forward-looking statements, in light of new information or future events. Please refer to our SEC filings for a more detailed description of the risk factors that may affect our results.

Please note that certain financial measures that we use on this call, such as operating income and operating margin are expressed on a non-GAAP basis, and have been adjusted to exclude charges related to stock-based compensation, and, as applicable, other special items. We have also adjusted our net cash provided by operating activities to remove capital expenditures, which we refer to as free cash flow. Our GAAP results and reconciliations of non-GAAP to GAAP measures can be found in our earnings press release.

With that, I will now turn the call over to Patrick.

PATRICK PICHETTE, CFO, GOOGLE INC.: Thanks, Ellen.

As some of you may know, we have a new leader in our Investor Relations team at Google. Her name is Ellen West. That's that great voice you just heard a minute ago -- a second ago.

Ellen is a long time Googler, who joined us in 2007. Although she's here with us today in Mountain View, she's actually based out of New York, and that will give us a bit more footprint on the East Coast, as well. So Ellen, welcome to the team.

With that, let's dive into the details of Google's financial performance for Q3. Our gross total consolidated revenue grew a healthy 20% year over year to $16.5 billion, and was up 4% quarter over quarter. Without currency fluctuations, our gross total consolidated revenue growth would have been 19% year over year.

Google Sites revenue was also up 20% year over year to $11.3 billion, and was up 3% quarter over quarter, driven by the strength in our mobile search. Network revenue was up 9% year over year at $3.4 billion, and was flat quarter over quarter, driven by improved year-over-year growth in the AdMob and the Ad Exchange businesses.

Finally, Google's other revenue grew a healthy 50% year over year to $1.8 billion, and was up 15% quarter over quarter. This driven by year-over-year growth, mainly from the Play Store, but also complemented by an increase in licensing revenue.

Our global aggregate paid click growth was strong this quarter, up 17% year over year, and up 2% quarter over quarter. Aggregate CPCs were down only 2% year over year and flat quarter over quarter, and without currency fluctuations, aggregate cost per click would have been down 1%, and in fact up 1% quarter over quarter.

As we began to do in our last earnings call, we continued to disclose paid clicks and cost per click changes by property type as well, in addition to the aggregate number. So to that end, Google Sites' paid clicks were up 24% year over year, and up 4% quarter over quarter. Google Sites' CPCs were down 4% year over year, and down 1% quarter over quarter.

Our network paid clicks were up 2% year over year and down 4% quarter over quarter, and network CPCs were down 4% year over year, but up 2% quarter over quarter. Our aggregate monetization metrics continue to be impacted by a number of factors, including geographic mix, device mix, property mix, as well as ongoing products and policy changes.

Turning to geographic performance now, we saw solid performance in the US, as well as in the rest of the world. In our earnings slides, which you can find on our Investor Relations website, you will see that we've broken down our revenue by US, UK and rest of world to show the impact of FX and the benefits of our hedging program, so please refer to those slides for the exact calculations.

US revenue was up 15% year over year to $7 billion. The UK was up 17% year over year to $1.6 billion, and, in fixed FX terms, the UK grew 10% year over year. In the UK, growth was impacted by a combination of factors this quarter, including platform and property mix, as well as tough comps from year-over-year and quarter-over-quarter growth rates for a number of reasons, including, for example, weather.

Our non-US revenue, excluding the UK, was up 26% year over year to $7.9 billion. This accounted for 48% of total revenue, which includes a $10 million benefit from our hedging program. In fixed FX terms, in fact, the rest of the world also grew 26% year over year, very healthy.

Let me turn now to expenses. Traffic acquisition costs were $3.3 billion, or 23% of total advertising revenue. Our non-GAAP other cost of revenue was $2.8 billion in Q3, which excludes stock-based compensation, and also a non-cash impairment charge of $378 million related to a patent licensing royalty asset, acquired as part of our Motorola Mobility purchase. Non-GAAP operating expenses totaled $5 billion, again excluding SBC, and as a result, our non-GAAP operating profit was $5.4 billion and our non-GAAP operating margin were 32% in Q3.

Headcount was up roughly 3,000 in Q3. In total, we ended the quarter with approximately 55,000 full-time employees. And please note that the headcount does include still approximately 3,500 full-time employees from the Motorola business.

In the past year, we continued to attract and hire the best talent from the best colleges and universities from all around the world. Continuing our past trend, graduates start are much more heavily concentrated in Q3, which is part of why you're seeing the significant bump in headcount, with the majority of being tech hires, I want to precise.

Our effective tax rate for the quarter was 22% for Q3, which includes the impact of the impairment charge that I mentioned earlier, which is a non-deductible for income tax purposes.

Let me turn now to cash management. OI&E or other income and expenses was $133 million. Interest income and realized gains on investments offset the continued impact of expenses from our FX hedging program. For more details on OI&E, please do refer to the slides that accompany this call on our IR website.

We continue to be happy with our strong operating cash flow at $6 billion. CapEx for the quarter was $2.4 billion, and this quarter, the majority of the CapEx was related to our data center construction, production equipment, and real estate purchases, in that order. It's important to remember that our infrastructure supports all of our products, whether they are core products like Search or Ads, Maps, or YouTube, but in addition to fueling our growth products like Photos and Hangouts, Google for Work and the Cloud platform.

If you look at our data center announcements over the last four quarters, you'll also see that we've been really busy with both groundbreakings and expansion all around the world, including Finland, Taiwan, Singapore, recently-announced Netherlands, in addition to our ongoing investments in the US. In total, our free cash flow was then $3.6 billion.

Before I close, I want to give a brief update on Motorola. The team continues to work hard, and we look forward to seeing them join the Lenovo team soon. Motorola had a great Q3, with strong user reviews for products like the Moto X, Moto 360, and Moto Hint, clearly demonstrating the impressive momentum of the Company.

So there you have it. Strong results, with continued strong growth in both revenue and profits, and an optimism that provides us the confidence to fund strategic growth opportunities, including the usual Android, Chromes, and YouTube, but also Google for Work and Cloud to name a few.

Before I hand things over to Omid, I'd like to share with you some great news. I'm really thrilled to announce that Omid is now officially Google's Chief Business Officer, and this on a permanent basis. All of us at Google couldn't be happier to see Omid at his post running our business organization once again.

And with that, I'll turn it over to him for more details on our performance in the quarter, and after his remarks, as usual, we'll have Jamie open up the lines for your questions. There you go, Omid.

OMID KORDESTANI, CHIEF BUSINESS OFFICER, GOOGLE INC.: Thank you very much, Patrick, and hello, everyone. I'm Omid Kordestani. I'm happy to be back at my new old job, and thank you for joining us this afternoon.

I joined Google back in 1999 to help get our business off the ground, and led our business operations until 2009. Since then I've served as an advisor to Larry, and outside Google actively helped many entrepreneurs.

I'm thrilled to be back at Google leading our global business again. We continue to have the same boundless energy and endless curiosity we've always had as a company, and we are as focused as ever on our mission of making information useful and accessible to everyone.

Case in point, we're really excited about this week's Android Lollipop launch. This is our largest release on Android, ever with over 5,000 APIs for developers. It adds new features, including better notifications, battery life, and security, and introduces a refreshed consistent visual style. And alongside the new devices, Nexus 6, Nexus 9 and Nexus Player, consumers in India who bought the recently-announced Android One will get the update to the latest software at the same time.

Now, I'll do a quick walk-through of the business highlights from Q3. As usual, we'll give an overview of these four areas: performance ad, brand advertising, our advertising platforms, and our emerging non-Ads businesses.

Let's start with performance advertising, the core of our business. People want the right information at the right time. They don't want to think about whether it's on the web or in an app.

We've learned this firsthand as a developer of many services, Maps, YouTube, Gmail, that also are some of the world's most popular mobile apps. With that in mind, we have a simple goal with performance ads; help marketers connect with customers at the right moment to drive measurable results.

Our partners have driven hundreds of millions of app downloads with AdMob, and our click-to-download formats. But most mobile apps are downloaded, used once, and eventually deleted. So we launched new features to help advertisers reengage with users, post-download. For example, advertisers can now deep link from their search ads directly into their mobile apps.

To succeed with multi-screen marketing, advertisers also need modern measurement tools so they can understand when their ads drive phone calls from customers, result in conversions on other devices, or lead to store visits and purchases. Last October, we announced estimated total conversions, our effort to help marketers better measure the value of their multi-screen advertising. We have worked to continue developing this product and launched cost device measurement for display ads. Clients have already found that mobile display campaigns drive 15% more conversions than they had previously measured.

Let's shift gears to talk about our shopping efforts. These dovetail nicely with performance ads. We are directly connecting people with products and services, and then enabling them to buy and have them delivered.

We keep making improvements to our products to help retailers. Keeping inventory organized and up-to-date is a constant challenge for retailers. We help them manage this issue by completing the transition of product listing ads to our shopping campaigns platform.

And finally, people often want to find stores near them to make a purchase in person. We have long had local inventory ads that enabled merchants to show customers this information in the US, and we launched these in the UK, France, Germany, Japan, and Australia last quarter. In summary, the core of our business, performance advertising, continues to deliver great results.

Let's move on now to our brand business. Our objective is clear here; make digital the best possible canvas for creative and effective brand-building campaigns.

First let's talk about YouTube. Any conversation about great advertising starts with great content. On YouTube, stars produce amazing content that our users love, from Bethany Mota to Smosh to Mental Floss.

Earlier this year, we launched Google Preferred, to help connect brands with premium ad inventory on our most popular YouTube channels. Since then, we have secured upfront commitments from top media agencies, who are just getting started with YouTube and its potential. We have sold out the majority of our US Google Preferred offering, which represents among the top 5% of popular channels inventory on YouTube, and as a result of terrific broadcast events in Germany, France, UK, and Australia, we're seeing tremendous interest from local agency partners around the world.

Last quarter we also saw some great progress in our brand efforts beyond YouTube. We launched new ad formats customized for mobile screens. We also announced an expansion of YouTube's TrueView ads into AdMob's network of more than 650,000 mobile apps. Every day, our teams work to develop both the products and terrific partner relationships that enable us to tackle any digital marketing challenge across multiple channels together.

With encouragement from Google and YouTube, ABC executed a digital first marketing plan for their new fall TV lineup. The effort included custom five second ads for TrueView, and collaborations with homegrown YouTube stars.

We're very excited about the new deal with Mondelez and Starcom MediaVest. This global agreement will focus on video and display, and is Mondelez's largest digital media deal ever.

Next, let's take a look at one of the fastest-growing parts of the digital advertising world; programmatic platforms for agencies and publishers. For many years now, our goal has been to provide world-class technology for brands, agencies and publishers, to power their ads businesses. Today, our DoubleClick suite is used by all major agencies, and we are particularly focused on multi-screen and video.

DoubleClick Bid Manager is the go-to tool for marketers and agencies to navigate the rapidly growing programmatic advertising space. It's doubled in size year over year by impression volume, and we really love the progress we see here. For publishers, we help them make money from their content via our publisher tools from our Ad Exchange to customized private exchanges, which complement our core offerings.

This quarter, we signed new private advertising exchange deals with publishers like Fox TV and Edmunds. This helps publishers generate revenue from premium ad space. We have nearly doubled the number of private exchanges running on our system year over year.

Finally, we're seeing remarkable momentum in our newer non-ads businesses. Whether it's Play, hardware, or Google for Work, we continue to see strong growth, and we're thrilled to be a platform for our partners' successes as well.

Google Play's growth continues to impress. It's a linchpin of the amazing Android ecosystem. We brought Play Music to 17 new countries, bringing the total to 45, and our expansion continues. Today, Play Movies is available in 93 countries, and Play Books is available in 61 countries.

On the hardware front, just yesterday we unveiled three fantastic new Nexus devices; Nexus 6 phone, Nexus 9 tablet, and Nexus Player and Android-powered streaming media player. This quarter, we worked with HP, Toshiba, and Acer to introduce five new Chromebook devices, and teamed up with Asus, LG, Motorola, Samsung, and Sony to help launch new Android Wear devices.

We're also selling Chromebook in six new countries. They are now available in 31 countries around the world, and we sold more than 1 million Chromebooks for education this quarter, even more than last quarter.

Chromecast celebrated its first birthday this past quarter. It's been a smashing success. Users have hit the cast button more than 400 million times since it launched to enjoy their favorite sports, music, premium movies, and TV shows. In September, we added even more content to Chromecast, including Disney content.

And we were so proud to launch Android One, an effort to make high-quality low-cost smartphones available to as many people as possible. We started in India, and we'll be expanding to other countries including Indonesia and the Philippines in the coming months.

For businesses, what was called Google Enterprise is now simply Google for Work. This business has great traction. In addition to the tremendous growth in our apps business, we have more than 1,800 sign ups for Google Drive for Work every week, plus there are almost 0.25 billion active Google Drive users, including consumer, education, and business users.

We continue to invest in our growing Cloud platform business, helping developers realize the promise of cloud computing by providing affordable on-demand access to world-class technology. We recently announced Google Cloud Platform for startups, and offer up to $100,000 in credits to enable the best and brightest startups to use Google Cloud Platform.

Sony Music recently built an interactive app in less than three weeks using App Engine to engage fans tuning into One Direction Day, an eight-hour YouTube live stream featuring the band. One of the largest ever YouTube music live streams.

Lastly, our marketing team had a great quarter as well. Google My Business helped more small businesses get online, and our Art, Copy & Code project showed advertisers the creative potential of digital marketing. And from the annual Google Science Fair to more recent campaigns showcasing amazing content on Play, YouTube stars and the power of the Google app, the magic of Google was on prominent display.

All told, it was another terrific quarter at Google. Continued momentum in our core business and exciting innovation in new areas, kudos to the Googlers around the world who made it all happen.

I'll turn it over to Patrick to wrap up, and start our Q&A.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thank you, Omid. So Jamie, if you want to give us the instructions, and we'll get going on the Q&A?

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions)

Eric Sheridan, UBS.

ERIC SHERIDAN, ANALYST, UBS: First one, maybe with the announcement that you're expanding Google Shopping Express into other cities and rebranding it, and new retailers are coming on, wondering if what you saw in the first few cities, to think about extending it further into the other cities, and what you might be hearing from feedback from retailers about adopting the platform? Because a few also dropped off platform at the same time. Wanted to get a little bit better color about how that was developing, and how you were going to go forward with it? Thanks.

OMID KORDESTANI: Thank you very much, Eric. So we really are trying to learn a lot here. Innovation is a messy process, and especially with Google Express here.

There's a lot of understanding that we need to have on improving efficiency in the logistics process. Trying to find price points that shoppers find attractive. And our goal is really to help the over 35 merchant partners succeed, and reach their customers.

And I'm a user of it, and I'm really impressed by how much time it saves. I see the carts running around the city, around me, and I think our goal is really to take it a step at a time, and see the success, understand the logistical operations, how much it costs us to do this, and can we deliver this basically in a successful way?

PATRICK PICHETTE: Just Eric, just a couple of additional points, one is, clearly we've announced this week three other cities. So if you go back to the fundamental premise of the argument we tabled, which is the first thing was, would people show up and want this product? Very clear, people want this product. The second one was -- and that's why we're expanding the product.

The second question then is, we've had a lot of questions about monetization, and we've announced this week we are taking real actions on the monetization service, both including commissions on these transactions from merchants, but also service fees that were announced as well. So from that perspective, we think of it as now we're in phase two of this project where according to our business plan, we continue to look for the barriers -- the milestones, and when we hit those milestones, we with enthusiasm keep on going.

All this to say it is nevertheless a scale business, so working on efficiencies, working on all of the issues that are related to logistics continues to be a big focus of ours, and on the partners, we are really thrilled to have the partners we have. You can expect as grow through this that we have a few coming in, a few coming out, but overall, very, very pleased with the trajectory there. So I think you should see the announcements of this week at as this sign of optimism and momentum in it. Thank you so much for your question, Eric.

ERIC SHERIDAN: Great.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Jamie, let's go to our next question.

OPERATOR: Justin Post, Merrill Lynch.

JUSTIN POST, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Thank you. I'm wondering if you can help us at all segregate the search business from other items in Google website, and just give us your view on the health of the search business? And then, comment a little bit on the paid click deceleration? What's driving that, and do you even see that as an important metric? Thank you.

PATRICK PICHETTE: So I'll take that. The two points is one, we don't give the breakdown of the Google Sites, but actually, it's pretty healthy on all dimensions. I think from that perspective, search is going well. And all of the other dimensions of our sites have actually doing pretty well, and that's what you see in our 20% year-over-year just for Sites growth. So from that perspective, I think that we're pretty happy on that front.

On the CPC issue, it's pretty simple. We really had, again, you have to think of the CPC and the volume as one basket that actually delivered. So monetization overall is still very strong. We're very happy with the monetization, Jamie.

And if we have in one quarter movements between one and the other, that's just basically the continued experimentation and the impact of all the factors that I usually talk about. So from that perspective, there was nothing of note worthy to mention this quarter. We're very happy with the trends in both cases.

JUSTIN POST: Thank you.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thanks, Jamie. Jamie, we'll go to our next question. Sorry, Justin, I meant. Jamie, we'll go to our next question.

OPERATOR: Stephen Ju, Credit Suisse.

STEPHEN JU, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: I think in the past, you've talked about the opportunity cost not being there for the user when they're trying to access your products and services as a rationale for making investments. So is there any data you can share on your newest users in the emerging markets who are going straight to mobile?

Is it safe to assume that consumption from these new users are running at a pretty similar growth trajectory with what you've seen historically on a desktop, and as well as your established markets? Or is their engagement with all your products more intense?

And is there anything you can say in terms of what areas of your business are seeing the more intense level of investment? Is it more your consumer-focused initiatives or more your enterprise-focused cloud initiatives? Thank you.

PATRICK PICHETTE: So, a couple points there. And if Omid has additional comments. One is, clearly, emerging markets are just fundamentally different than the more developed markets. Right? If you think of a country like Indonesia or India, where people go straight to mobile.

And so in that context, there's clearly a lot of differences between those markets and how they're evolving, compared to what would have been 10 years ago, in either the UK or the US. So from that perspective, I think that's why you see us launch things like Android One. Right? You have -- just under 2 billion people around the world that have already smartphones, right? The vast majority of the population looks for things online, so these initiatives that we're launching, I think, is the most important piece.

From an investment at Google, we're investing -- without giving you all the details, we are clearly investing in our core business. It remains the focus of our activities, but if you look across, right? As Omid mentioned, he mentioned the Cloud business, the Google for Work business, all of these other areas, right? The Play business, the hardware business, these are all areas where we're investing, and we're investing with enthusiasm with each their own specific business case. Each of them actually looking for what is their growth and profitability models, and we just monitor them pretty tightly.

STEPHEN JU: Okay.

PATRICK PICHETTE: So you're welcome. Jamie, let's go to our next question, please.

OPERATOR: Mark Mahaney, RBC Capital Markets.

MARK MAHANEY, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Patrick, in describing the Google search strength, you said you saw particular strength in mobile search. Could you elaborate?

PATRICK PICHETTE: Yes. Look, it's very clear that mobile is still a big part of our growth. And we're very pleased about it.

But when we talk about mobile, I think there's a couple things. One is you have to continue to look at both the growth in volume and the growth in pricing. So these are long-term trends that we're seeing.

The CPCs and the clicks, they can fluctuate from quarter-to-quarter. Just happens that we've made some changes this quarter that improved the mobile pricing, while impacting the lower quality clicks, and that's what you see a bit reflected in our numbers. And again, I wouldn't, just as an overall statement, remember to everybody that I wouldn't attribute the aggregate CPC movement just to that one factor of mobile, right? Because there's still a full factor mix, as I talked in my remarks about geography, and about our product changes, so all this actually makes a big factor as well. So that's what we've seen in the strength in mobile, but we're still very pleased with the momentum.

Thanks, Mark. Jamie, we'll go to our next question, please.

OPERATOR: Ross Sandler, Deutsche Bank.

ROSS SANDLER, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: I just had two questions. First on the UK, and then second on mobile payments. So the UK growth looks like it's dropping off pretty hard on an ex-FX basis, either one-year or two-year growth rates. So I think this is an economy that folks generally think is supposed to be holding up pretty well, so can you talk about what you're seeing in the UK? You had mentioned weather and a few other things, but a little bit more color on what's going on with the ad market in the UK?

And then mobile payments, that's an area that's getting a lot of attention lately. Can you give us an update on where the Google Wallet team stands, and what traction you're seeing in terms of user adoption, and maybe how you plan on addressing merchant payments outside of in-app or things from the App Store? Thank you.

PATRICK PICHETTE: So Ross, why don't I take the first question, and then Omid will give you the answer on the second? As we talk about the UK, a couple points are worth note. One is, the UK contributed roughly 10% of our total revenue this quarter, and that's been the same for the past many quarters. In fact, if you go back years, it will still be in the same range. So there's nothing fundamental that -- it's worth noting that it's still a pretty good market with decent growth.

The issue of deceleration this quarter specifically, I mentioned a number of elements, right? So platform mix, we do see maturing of desktop tablet searches having a greater impact in the UK than anywhere else we see in our network of countries. On property mix, you'll remember we talked about this also on prior calls. AFS, as a business, has much bigger part of our both UK and US business, so it will skew to those geographies, and so those are some of the elements.

And as I mentioned, right? Year-over-year comps were difficult. And then, if you have a great summer in terms of weather or bad summer in weather, it can have some real impact on the growth rates, as well. So it's a combination of a number of factors, that the UK has driven our performance. But still pretty pleased.

But I won't -- that's really what's going on there. In terms of the payments, I'll let Omid give you an update there.

OMID KORDESTANI: Hi, Ross. I think our goal here is really achieving mass merchant adoption, so the availability of these NFC devices is about that, and also making it easier for consumers to replace their wallets with their smartphones, hopefully more and more over time. So reducing friction in everyday shopping experiences is how we approach it and focus on the user, and we're developing a fully functional payment system.

So as you may know, users can send money today to friends through Gmail using the wallet app. We have loyalty and gift cards that can be stored in the wallet app, and Buy With Google button makes it possible for users to make purchases very quickly with two clicks. So against this two-fronted focus on merchant adoption, and removing the friction for users. Thank you.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thanks, Ross. Jamie, let's go to our next question, please.

OPERATOR: Ben Schachter, Macquarie.

BEN SCHACHTER, ANALYST, MACQUARIE RESEARCH: Omid, after many years of waiting for television budgets to shift online, it appears to be happening in a more accelerated fashion. So one, do you agree with that, and two, could you just discuss YouTube's positioning versus competitors, and in particular Facebook Video? And then Patrick, a couple quick ones for you,. One, given the evolution of tax laws in Europe, how are you and how should we be thinking about Google's tax rate over the coming years, and also, just any comments on stock comp being particularly high this quarter? Thanks.

OMID KORDESTANI: Thank you, Ben. This is Omid. So the way we look at it is that the users are really accessing Internet on large screens with high broadband speeds and we're getting great monetization on these screens, and advertisers are really paying attention. So we have seen a real shift, where marketers and agencies who have historically build their brands on TV are really reorienting this toward investments on digital.

And in regards to YouTube, our focus here is really this focus on investments and more content, more creativity, and I think you also mentioned that you had a Facebook comment. What they are doing, I think in video, has always helped us with bringing more attention and more innovation to the space, so we welcome that. And the way we are going to approach it is continue to invest in our platform, and on the creators, and building better and better monetization solutions.

Just again, you made some may know some of these metrics, but I'll say it again, that we have 400 hours of content that are uploaded every minute. And partner revenue is up 60% from 2012 to 2013. On YouTube.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Great. Let me jump, Ben, on your two specific questions. On the tax issues, you've heard about the Ireland announcement earlier this week, on the double Irish tax structure. For us, we've always said that it's for politicians to decide what laws they want to put, and for companies just to comply with those laws. And that's what we're basically doing.

So we're deeply committed to Ireland. We've worked there for many years. We have a great -- that's our headquarters, we have over 2,500 employees there. And so from that perspective, we're committed to the place, and we're going to work with the authorities, just to get clarifications over this. But it's really way too early to tell what's going to happen, so we're just like you, getting the information, the news, and we're going to work with the authorities to understand it better, and then comply with the laws.

In terms of stock-based compensation, a few -- just a few notes on this one for this quarter. We have, it's the time of year where we do equity refresh. And from a timing perspective, last year we did the equity refresh in Q2 instead of Q3. So there's like a geography of Q2 versus Q3 that hit us in Q3.

In addition to this, if you go to our filings, you'll see that our executive compensation -- so think of the top 15 or top 20, I can't remember the exact numbers, but it's stated there -- that they do their refreshes every two years, and it happens to be this quarter as well. And then finally, we obviously have more employees, so it's just a compounding set of factors, Ben, that I lumped it all into Q3 so it's no more, no less than that, on that one.

BEN SCHACHTER: Thank you.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thanks for your question. Jamie, let's go to our next question, please.

OPERATOR: Anthony DiClemente, Nomura.

ANTHONY DICLEMENTE, ANALYST, NOMURA SECURITIES INTERNATIONAL: Just on core operating expenses, is there anything in particular, Patrick, that you might call out in terms of expense growth in the quarter, as you have operating deleverage through the P&L? Just wondering, going forward, if that's likely to continue?

And then question for Omid, I suppose on YouTube. You mentioned, I know that YouTube's investing in its studio as a way to help along new talent, new homegrown talent, onto the platform directly. I'm wondering if you can talk about the multi-channel network, how YouTube's relationships with the multi-channel networks, the MCNs, are evolving at a high-level. How you guys think about that dynamic between the homegrown YouTube talent itself as compared to talent that resides on the MCNs? Thanks.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Okay, Anthony. Thank you for your question. Why don't I jump in right now on just expenses for the quarter? I think if I had two comments to make on expenses in the quarter, you may notice that relative to a few models that I saw out there, R&D was higher, and other areas are a bit lower.

And I just want to highlight that we hire and we focus clearly our hiring in our tech payroll, so think of it as all of our engineering. And that skews to R&D, so as we bring on people and we push forward the growth of our -- we really focus it in the areas that are going to make a fundamental difference to Google, which is engineering. And by doing so, it skews to R&D, so that's why our R&D was maybe a bit higher than expected by some models out there, and so that's one piece.

And then the other one is, I just wanted to reiterate that it's very clearly an extraordinary quarter from a hiring perspective, for the comments I've made before. And so we're clearly seeing that, but at the same time, I wouldn't say that this is clearly a new run rate for us, or anything like that. It just happened that most of these college students end up landing in Q3, and we have the result of a banner year from a hiring perspective, all through -- it takes a year to hire them all and they come into this quarter so that's really the two big elements that have actually flowed, Anthony, through our P&L this quarter.

ANTHONY DICLEMENTE: Thanks.

PATRICK PICHETTE: I'll let Omid answer the YouTube question.

OMID KORDESTANI: Yes, Anthony. We have a very, very partnership-minded organization here, and Company as a whole. So we view MCNs as organizations that are really going to help the developer of great content, support the creators on YouTube. Just like we are doing that with YouTube studios. I think MCNs can help a lot of these computer startups, hopefully, and develop more success. So we view it as another form of partnership, that we need to pay attention to and support. So that's how we look at it.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thank you, Anthony. Jamie, let's go to our next question, please.

OPERATOR: Carlos Kirjner, Sanford Bernstein.

CARLOS KIRJNER, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & CO.: I have two questions. Patrick, is CapEx still driven by real estate and construction? And if yes, can you explain in a bit more detail what changed about 18 months ago, in the way you acquire real estate and build to drive the inflection in capital intensity we have seen? It looks like you operated for more than 10 years in one way, and then there was a shift that has led to this massive inflection, so what happened there?

Secondly, do you think that Google again is adopted or aspired to being adopted by a large enough number of important mobile apps for you to be competitive in the long term, when it comes to offering mobile targeting and attribution? And can you give us an update on the developer adoption of [depleting]? Thank you.

PATRICK PICHETTE: I can certainly take the first, and let Omid answer the second. I've made that comment before in the prior quarter, Carlos. The CapEx intensity and our CapEx program has been built by a combination of, as I mentioned in previous quarters, catching up when we were running too hot, in terms of tightening of capacity. And once I'm very happy that when we really torque our utilization rates, on the other side, it creates a lot of operational issues. And that led us to believe that, in fact, investing ahead of the curve was actually a strategic imperative for us, to make sure that if we have the extra capacity, we will grow into it.

And I think the difference between certainly in the data center side, data center construction and machines, and you'll have noticed that this quarter again, the priorities, if you look at the nomenclature I gave, construction of data center is the primary. So it is the core infrastructures, it's groundbreaking, and it is setting up the core infrastructures. Machine was the second one for this quarter, but you will notice that it flip-flops with real estate.

In the case of the real estate, we have been investing for our campus and otherwise when we see, when we hit minimum scale, we need to make investments in real estate. And again with an eye of looking for the long-term rather than just filling at least for the next 12 months or 24 months. Because once -- if you decide you're going to grow in a place, then you need the capacity for multi-years.

So all of these factors have actually been the driver for the shift in capital intensity that you've seen over the last 18 months. So that's basically the explanation, Carlos. I will let Omid jump on the second question, about the mobile question.

OMID KORDESTANI: Sure. Thanks, Carlos. So the AdMob network reaches 900 million unique devices per month, and our own apps are hugely popular, Gmail, Maps, Google app and YouTube. And our focus is also, is helping developers generate app downloads and re-engagement with users who have already downloaded their apps, as I mentioned in my remarks earlier. And we're really helping drive hundreds of millions of app downloads through app promotion products. Again the goal here is that you just search and not worry about where the answer is, either on a webpage or an app.

And we've been in this game for a while, four years ago we acquired AdMob and have continued to invest in this space heavily. And this quarter we launched the next generation of this app promotion ads across Google Search, Google Display Network and YouTube. So really focused in this area to help the developers and our users.

PATRICK PICHETTE: I think we can clearly say that we're pretty pleased with the developer adoption of this link. They see a huge benefit. So they are actually investing in it. Thank you, Carlos. Jamie, let's go to our next question, please.

OPERATOR: Douglas Anmuth, JPMorgan.

DOUGLAS ANMUTH, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Just two for Omid. First, you talked about estimated conversions, and seeing a 15% increase there. Can you talk about whether you think that's actually leading to more spend at this point from advertisers? And then, secondly, are you seeing mobile like-for-like pricing improvements at this point, and what gives you the confidence in mobile closing the gap with desktop over time?

OMID KORDESTANI: Thanks, Douglas, both are really good questions that are related really. I think the way this is going to play out is that, I think advertisers are going to -- with these tools, be able to just understand conversions better. Where is it happening? And then the dynamics of how those changes, all the way back to adjusting bids, and then paying attention to where the conversions are coming from.

So again, I think, just to maybe highlight some examples for you, we have a fashion retailer, Express, who was an early tester, found that the overall return on their ad spend doubled when off-line sales were included in the online advertising results. So we're just continuing to invest here and get this right. It is too early to figure out the impact exactly on revenue, but we expect the estimated total conversions to help the advertisers fully measure this, and ultimately, adjust their bidding, and just get more sophisticated in these measurements. Hope that answers.

DOUGLAS ANMUTH: And mobile on a like-for-like basis?

OMID KORDESTANI: The way we're focused on this is that users really are using the screens interchangeably, simultaneously, throughout the day. And we really are not, at this point, doing this like-by-like comparisons or comment on it because we think it's still early and we're really focused on, just again, delivering the results. And it took many years for example for the desktop ecosystem to develop the right ad formats, and really take advantage of the platform. So I think we just need to continue innovating here, experimenting here to get it right.

DOUGLAS ANMUTH: Thank you.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thanks, Douglas. Jamie, let's go to our next question, please.

OPERATOR: Mark May, Citi.

MARK MAY, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: One on, there's been quite a bit of attention paid to Cloud services space, and Google in particular. Wondering if you can comment a little bit around the traction that you're getting with Compute Engine, and what sort of impact that is having on revenue expenses and CapEx for the business? And then secondly, hoping, I think earlier you made a comment around some changes you've made in mobile that have impacted some of your network click metrics. So hoping you could elaborate a bit more on that.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Okay. Do you want me -- I'll just jump on the Cloud. And then the last piece, and then maybe I wasn't sure what the very first part of your question, Mark, was. But clearly, Cloud is an area that is booming. Right?

We know that long-term trends are very clear for us, which is the vast majority of businesses, everybody's moving their infrastructures to the cloud. So it is an area where we have fundamentally great assets to contribute to this industry, both in terms of the flexibility, the cost structure, the technology. And that's why we're investing heavily in there. We're seeing great progress from an adoption perspective, signing up new customers.

And from CapEx, obviously, you need -- that's one of them that as I mentioned on the CapEx story with Carlos a few minutes ago, if you do take off and you really get the kind of customer adoption that you expect, if you don't have the capacity in place, it can have a really important differential in your success. So there is one that we're keeping a pretty close eye on from a CapEx perspective and making sure that we have the option value.

On the -- third question was mobile -- network click? So yes. Clicks and CPCs always fluctuate from quarter-to-quarter. It just happens that we've made some, as I mentioned, made some changes this quarter that improved our mobile pricing, while impacting low-quality clicks.

So sometimes if you think of a long-term trend, in the mobile sector, piece of our product, sometimes you put a new change in the network, and it creates a lot of clicks for it, but then the CPCs are much lower, and then if it doesn't actually create something that's really good for the user, you need to pull back on it, and that's what you heard for example to parallel to the AFS business. So it's constantly fluctuating.

What's really important to look at is really the combined volume and pricing growth. So for us, it's very clear that we're doing some great work in this area, and monetization in aggregate is doing very well. And that's really what we're -- like on a quarter-to-quarter basis, don't panic about a little movements here and there, look at the fundamental trends and that's where we're very pleased. Now, was there a first question that I missed? Mark?

MARK MAY: No. I was hoping on Cloud that maybe you could put some numbers behind the level of traction in terms of number of customers, impact on expenses, CapEx, level of investment in the Cloud.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Okay. So I've given you what I can give you on that. Again, we're really thrilled by the momentum there, and our focus in that area.

MARK MAY: Excellent.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thanks, Mark. Jamie, we'll go to our next question, please.

OPERATOR: Peter Stabler, Wells Fargo Securities.

PETER STABLER, ANALYST, WELLS FARGO SECURITIES: One for Omid. Going back to estimated total conversions, wondering if we could expect Adometry to be integrated into the DoubleClick platform and how that may or may not work with the estimated total conversions tool? And then finally, wondering if you could comment on your work around coming up with a solution that reduces the dependence upon cookies, and perhaps introduces a cross-platform, cross-device ID for Google, and what impact that could have in the market? Thank you.

OMID KORDESTANI: Sure. I think -- it's early for us to call Adometry. It's a great attribution solution. And we've been investing in that tool for a long time now, and trying to just get this right by all the innovation that's happening within Google, and just really understanding the impact of these usage models between the mobile devices and desktop.

And so, I think we're going to look at everything that's available out there, both what we're developing, and partners out there that we can partner with, and continue to invest here. It's going to take us a while, just like we experienced before with search, to get this right and have a real end-to-end solution for marketers and publishers. And so I think you will see a lot of innovation in this space, what Facebook recently announced is another approach. And we're going to study that, and just figure out what is the right set of offerings from us.

So I guess unfortunately, I can't give you a very specific answer here, but I think what you'll see from us is pay a huge amount of attention here. Make the measurements, see the impact. And then offer a full suite to our customers.

PATRICK PICHETTE: So just basically too early to speculate on these issues, but clearly it's an area of focus at the Company. Thank you, Peter. Jamie, our next question, please.

OPERATOR: Heather Bellini, Goldman Sachs.

HEATHER BELLINI, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: I had two questions. The first was follow-up on Google Shopping Express. Just wondering, when you think about what Amazon is doing with same-day delivery, they're obviously building these fulfillment centers themselves which theoretically should give them scale over time. I'm wondering if you could share with us how you see this evolving for Google, over time? And then, follow-up question would just be related to your comment about payments. I'm just wondering, how critical is it for Google itself to solve the payment friction that you're seeing, with a ubiquitous digital wallet, or would you be fine with a third-party doing so for the Android platform?

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thank you, Heather. I'll take the first and then let Omid answer the second. Clearly, Google Shopping Express, I think there is an issue of scale. And it's a combination of an issue of scale, tools and efficiency. That's how, if you think over time, end up with a product that you can deliver within hours at the right value, and where you can make money.

So it's not only about -- yes, for efficiencies, you need centralization. You need a bunch of distribution tools that actually work. We're clearly focused on that, as well. That is part of the business case that we're building. But you need more than that. There's a lot of other elements as well.

So clearly focused, like our competitors would be. And our announcements today again, was it yesterday? Yesterday's announcements on Shopping Express tell you that we are investing in the three new cities, give you a hint of yes, it's about scale. So clearly, we're focused on that.

OMID KORDESTANI: And Heather, on the wallet question, I think we're going to continue to be open here. So we are trying to get it right, and innovating on multiple fronts, as I mentioned earlier. And if partnering makes sense, we'll take a look at it as well.

So the goal is here, really to provide this very seamless experience for the users, and then get the merchant adoption, and hopefully get this right. I'm certainly delighted every time I use this and it works. And I think if we can all get the ecosystem right, and there are multiple players in it and partnerships that are making it happen, we're definitely open to that.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thank you, Heather. Let's go to our next question.

OPERATOR: Paul Vogel, Barclays.

PAUL VOGEL, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: As Google Play has grown, I'm wondering if you can talk about the relationship to the carriers, and how that's evolving over time?

PATRICK PICHETTE: I can answer that. So essentially, Google Play's doing great. And everybody wants to be part of this answer. And so for our carriers, they are really done on a one-by-one basis. So the real question is, what's the win-win, and so they're all done individually.

We have great partnerships with many carriers that actually fuels this. And we're including carrier billing. So all this actually is just a very, very positive ecosystem for us, and so we're totally thrilled to have these partnerships, and we expect to continue to do so.

PAUL VOGEL: Thanks.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thanks, Paul. Jamie, one more question?

OPERATOR: Brian Pitz, Jefferies.

BRIAN PITZ, ANALYST, JEFFERIES & COMPANY: Two on video for Omid. You mentioned Google Preferred in your comments. Any color on further expanding the upfront process with the ad agencies? Basically do you anticipate that upwards of 5% to 10% of your top inventory could actually be set aside for preferred longer-term? And then just given the shift of off-line TV dollars to online, as you mentioned, any comments on political specifically, or other new categories more aggressively moving onto YouTube? Thanks so much.

OMID KORDESTANI: Sure, thank you, Brian. So we secured upfront commitments from five top agencies. IPG, OMD, Digitas, Carat, SMG, and some major brands like General Motors and Coca-Cola, and we were actually very pleased with how Google Preferred was experienced and adopted. And I think we're going to definitely continue working on this, and also, if you look at our history, we're very used to it.

The selling model that was all about performance, and then as we added properties like YouTube and brand and mobile, we're just getting more and more now, gaining a better understanding of how to work in this upfront process, for example, to offer the marketers this incredible asset that we have in YouTube and our network. So we're going to just continue getting better at -- on the product side, figure out how to package this inventory better and then the tools that are needed.

And then on the selling side, just get better at also working with the agencies and our advertisers and marketers to get this type of selling right. And on the political vertical, I think clients love to use our products as part of their campaigns for federal, local, state campaigns and this is a really great area for us. We have actually a political sales team that's focused on it, so I think you'll see more of that effort from us.

BRIAN PITZ: Great. Thanks.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thanks, Brian. Jamie, that's all the time we have. So if you don't mind, I'd just like to close by reiterating what Omid said a bit earlier. This quarter was a great quarter, with great momentum, again. And I just wanted to thank all the great efforts of our Googlers around the world, who make us look good on this call, because of their fantastic efforts. So with that, Jamie, I'll let you close the call, and have a happy Q4, everyone.

OPERATOR: Thank you again. That does conclude today's conference. We do appreciate everyone's participation.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
goog : Google Inc.
   IN
iappsp : Cloud Computing | i8394 : Computer Services | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | i8395464 : Internet Search Engines | iint : Internet/Online | itech : Technology
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | uk : United Kingdom | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020141018eaag005sd
  


 HD
 Q1  2014 Google Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
10,396 words
   PD
16 April 2014
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©014 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day, everyone. Welcome to the Google Inc Q1 2014 earnings call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time I'd like to turn the conference over to Jane Penner, Director of IR. Please go ahead.

   TD
JANE PENNER, DIRECTOR OF IR, GOOGLE INC: Good afternoon, everyone. Welcome to Google's first-quarter 2014 earnings conference call. With us are Patrick Pichette, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, and Nikesh Arora, Senior Vice President and Chief Business Officer.

Also as you know, we distribute our earnings release through our investor relations website located at investor.google.com. Please refer to our IR website for our earnings releases as well as the supplementary slides that accompany the call. You can also visit our Google+ Investor Relations page for latest Company news and updates. Please check it out.

This call is being webcast cast from investor.google.com. A replay of the call will be available on our website later today.

Now, let me quickly cover the Safe Harbor. Some of the statements that we make today may be considered forward-looking including, statements regarding Google's future investments, our long-term growth and innovation, the expected performance of our businesses and our expected level of capital expenditures. These statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially. Please note that these forward-looking statements reflect our opinions only as of the date of this presentation and we undertake no obligation to revise or publicly release the results of any revisions to these forward-looking statements in light of new information or future events. Please refer to our SEC filings for more detailed descriptions of the risk factors that may affect our results.

Please note that certain financial measures that we use on this call such as operating income and operating margin are expressed on a non-GAAP basis and have been adjusted to exclude charges related to stock-based compensation and restructuring. We've also adjusted our net cash provided by operating activities to remove capital expenditures, which we refer to as free cash flow. Our GAAP results and reconciliations of non-GAAP to GAAP measures can be found in our earnings press release.

With that, I will turn the call over to Patrick.

PATRICK PICHETTE, SVP & CFO, GOOGLE INC: Good afternoon and thank you for joining us on our first-quarter 2014 earnings call.

Before we jump into my usual remarks, I'd like to bring two points to everybody's attention. First, a reminder that on April 2, we issued our Class C stock dividend. With twice as many shares outstanding, our usual per share information will look quite different starting this quarter.

Also, second, and also as a reminder, our expected sale of the Motorola Mobile business to Lenovo triggered discontinued operations accounting treatment, which means Motorola's quarterly results are shown separately from Google's net income. You'll see this new presentation in our financials, starting this quarter. So, with these two caveats noted, let's dive into the details of Google's financial performance in Q1.

Our gross, total consolidated revenue grew a healthy 19% year over year to $15.4 billion, and it was down 2% quarter over quarter. Without currency fluctuations, our gross total consolidated revenue growth would in fact have been 21% year over year. Google Site's revenue was up 21% year over year to $10.5 billion and was down 1% quarter over quarter, driven by the strength in our core search advertising business.

Network revenue was up 4% year over year at $3.4 billion and was down 4% quarter over quarter, driven by improved year-over-year growth from our Ad Exchange and AdMob businesses. Finally, Google's Other revenue grew 48% year over year to $1.6 billion and was down 6% quarter over quarter. Digital sales of apps and content in our Play store drove year-over-year growth. Chromecast sales were also strong.

Our global aggregate paid click growth was strong this quarter again, up 26% year over year and down just 1% quarter over quarter. Our aggregate cost per click was down 9% year over year and flat quarter over quarter. Currency fluctuations had a minimal impact on Q1 CPC growth.

Our monetization metrics continued to be impacted by a number of factors discussed on previous calls, including geographic mix, device mix, property mix as well as products and policy changes. And, to help investors better understand the complex dynamics of these monetization metrics, we'll begin disclosing paid clicks and CPC growth by property in Q2. To be clear this means that we'll disclose CPC and paid click growth rates for both our Sites and Network businesses. We will continue to disclose, obviously, the aggregate growth rates for CPC and paid clicks.

Turning to the geographic performance, we saw strong performance in the US and rest of world, solid performance in the UK. In our earnings slides, which you can find in Investor Relations website, you'll that see we've broken down our revenue by US, UK, and rest of world to show the impact of FX and the benefits from our hedging programs, so please refer to those slides for the exact calculation.

US revenue was up 14% year over year to $6.7 billion. The UK was up 14% year over year to $1.6 billion, and in fixed FX terms it grew 11% year over year. Our non-US revenue, excluding the UK, was up 25% year over year to $7.2 billion. This accounted for 47% of our total revenue, which includes a $8 million benefit from our hedging program. In fixed FX terms, the rest of world grew, in fact, 30% year over year.

Let me now turn to expenses. Traffic acquisition costs were $3.2 billion or 23% of total advertising revenue. Our non-GAAP other costs of revenue was $2.6 billion in Q1 excluding our stock-based compensation. Non-GAAP operating expenses totaled $4.6 billion, again excluding stock-based compensation. As a result, our non-GAAP operating profit was $5 billion and our non-GAAP operating margins were 32% in Q1.

Just a quick word on a few items that may have created noise in our operating expenses this quarter. We had some discrete legal expenses that hit our G&A line, as well as one-time M&A related costs that increased our operating expenses, particularly in R&D. So, absent these discrete items, our expenses continue to demonstrate the same, disciplined agenda we've always had.

Headcount was up, roughly 2,100 people in Q1. In total, we ended the quarter with approximately 50,000 full-time employees. Please note that the headcount still includes approximately 3,700 full-time employees from the Motorola business as well as the employees from the acquisition completed in this quarter.

Our effective tax rate was 18% in Q1 and our tax rate this quarter was impacted, obviously, by the federal R&D credits, which expired in 2013.

Let me now turn to cash management. Other income and expense was $357 million for the quarter. Realized gains on investments and interest income offset the continued impact of expenses from our FX-hedging program. For more details on OI& E please refer to the slides that accompany this call on our IR website.

We continue to be happy with our strong operating cash flow at $4.4 billion. CapEx for the quarter was $2.3 billion. This quarter, again, the majority of CapEx was related to data center construction, production equipment, and real estate purchases. As I mentioned last quarter during my remarks, we continue to invest in the long term and our infrastructure continues to be a key strategic area of investment for us. Our free cash flow was $2 billion for Q1.

Before I close, I want to give a brief update on Motorola. Motorola had a great quarter in Q1 with the Moto G showing strong sales momentum, especially in emerging markets. The team continues to be hard at work and we look forward to seeing them join up with Lenovo soon.

So there you have it, strong results and an optimism that provides us the confidence to fund strategic growth opportunities, including Android, Chrome, YouTube, enterprise just to name a few.

Now, I'll let Nikesh, in fact, cover more details of our business performance in the quarter. After his remarks, we'll open up the phone lines for questions. Here you go, Nikesh.

NIKESH ARORA, SVP & CHIEF BUSINESS OFFICER, GOOGLE INC: Thank you, Patrick. You're welcome to cover more details if you'd like.

Our business is growing well, with $15.4 billion in gross revenue. We had a particularly good advertising performance in the United States, highlighted by a very strong auto sector showing around the Super Bowl. We had strong Play growth in Asia and we had a few isolated drags.

By now you're aware of the four areas driving our business. The first one, direct response, or as I like to call it performance marketing. The second one, helping clients build their brand. Third, our ad tech platform to publish certain agencies. Fourth, our emerging businesses like digital content, enterprise an hardware. Let me give you an update on all of those and talk about industry trends that are driving the investments we are making.

On performance advertising, people now always online, and they want a seamless, easy experience as they move from screen to screen. This constant connectivity is diving our investments here. As people use search to navigate their world, Google is really well positioned to help people navigate between web, apps and the places around them. They help marketeers measure the entire customer's journey and to drive better monetization.

Next week, we'll be welcoming hundreds of advertisers to our AdWords Performance Forum where we will talk more about our work in this area for marketeers. Clients are already benefiting from our recent investments, like enhanced campaign and estimated total conversions. For instance, Shutterfly recently began measuring cross-device conversions in AdWords to understand sales that start in one device and end on another. As a result, they saw a 60% increase in mobile conversions for non-brand terms leading them to include 100% of the keywords on mobile devices.

We're seeing great momentum in product listing ads as well, with the new shopping campaign system. International retailer, Farfetch upgraded its shopping campaigns and increased their conversion rate by 13% while reducing their cost per acquisition, or CPA, by 20%. Domino's Pizza, who doesn't like pizza, recently made it easier for customers to pay with Google Wallet Instant Buy on their Android app.

Moving on to brand building. For years you've all seen the rise of digital video, over-the-top networks, connected screens, streaming devises and high-quality digital programming. Already, for example, YouTube reaches more than 1 billion people a month through hugely popular channels like Fashion Guru, Bethany Mota, cooking maven Rosanna Pansino, and the cult hit Nerdist. For marketeers this is an irresistible trend, and we're not significant industry moment. Marketeers and agencies that have historically built their brand on TV are reorienting their creative planning and investments [potential] at the center.

This year, nearly all Super Bowl advertisers turned to YouTube to extend the life and reach of their TV spots. Super Bowl related ads on YouTube have been viewed over 300 million times. That's roughly three times the size of the audience that watched the ads on TV.

In Australia, we worked with Nissan to create made-for-YouTube video for the launch of their new Patrol SUV. The campaign, which was promoted by TrueView ads and a YouTube mast head, drove a 340% increase in daily visits to their website and more than 2% of those were interactive with the campaign to test drive.

In a few weeks, in New York, at our annual BrandCast upfront event, we'll focus on our new Google Preferred offering. This features exclusive access to the best, most engaging content on YouTube, with guaranteed audiences through third-party measurement providers Nielsen and comScore. We're really excited about this and we're looking forward to the results of that upfront BrandCast event.

We're also helping brands through our newest display ad formats. We recently teamed with Tory Burch to bring her New York fashion week show to a global audience across our Display network. They also did the first-ever live stream of fashion show in an ad, using our Lightbox Ads, and were able to share the exclusive event of more than seven million of their biggest fans.

Third, moving to our ad technologies and platforms. Our programmatic ad technologies are continued to see great momentum with premium publisher partners like the Local Media Consortium, that's comprised more than 800 daily newspapers and 200 local broadcast stations as well as timing. Both of them signed on with us in February to create priority exchanges. This maximizes the value of their ad space for a hand-picked premium environment.

One thing we know is that agencies and publishers want to trust the environment in which they're transacting. Our ad network and exchanges are widely regarded across industry as having the best quality controls, and we continue to invest here. In February, we acquired wellium fraud fighter Spider.io and thousands of our clients are already using our MRC accredited active view technology to buy high-quality viewable ad impressions.

Let me switch over to our emerging new businesses, digital content, hardware and enterprise. Google Play continues to be the thriving hub of our digital content business. This quarter we introduced Google Play Movies to 39 new countries, so now people in more than 65 countries can enjoy movies through Play.

We also teamed up with Sonos to bring high fidelity Play Music into the home, and we introduced new developer tools for Google Play Games, including game gifting and iOS multi-player support.

Over 75 million new users joined Google Play Games the last six months. All of this is helping turn developers around the world into full-fledged businesses. In fact, we paid out more than four times as much money to developers in 2013 compared to 2012.

Following the Open Automotive Alliance that we announced with partners in January, designed to bring Android to the car. In March, we announced Android Wear, a project that extends Android to wearables. We're also already working with several consumer electronics manufactures, chip makers and fashion brands and can't wait to see what developers come up with for your wrist.

We also continue to see strong momentum from our suite of hardware products. Our $35 Chromecast is a real hit. Last month we brought Chromecast to 11 more countries. We also recently opened up Chromecast to developers, and in just a few weeks more than 3,000 developers worldwide signed up to bring their apps and websites to the platform.

Turning over to enterprise. We continue to see strong product adoption around the globe. We launched Chromebox for meetings, which makes it easy for any company to have high-definition video meetings through the power of Google+ Hangouts and Google Apps.

We're also investing significantly in the Google Cloud platform and have seen a very positive response to our most recent product announcement. We expect to see continued momentum in this area and we believe we can bring significant value to the many companies adopting public clouds because of our experience in building and operating one of the world's largest cloud computing environments for over a decade.

We're able to pass on the savings that come from lower digital storage costs to our customers through highly competitive pricing. In addition, every day, more businesses, governments and schools start using Google Apps to work better together, including the State of Sao Palo, who moved to Google Apps for more than 4 million students and 300,000 teachers and staff.

Before I close, I want to call out our marketing team, who continues to highlight the magic of Google to people around the world and the fourth annual Google Science Fair to Doodle for Google in the United States, the hugely popular ad campaigns. They've also helped to build great regional experience for Chromecast in over 6,000 stores. I'd like to thank all Googlers around the world who helped make this a terrific quarter.

I'll, now, hand over back to Patrick.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thank you, Nikesh. We'll work with Jamie to go straight to the Q&A. Jamie?

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions)

Ben Schachter, Macquarie.

BEN SCHACHTER, ANALYST, MACQUARIE RESEARCH EQUITIES: Patrick, I was wondering if you could help us quantify some of the expenses you saw, the one-time nature of G&A and anything else there that was really one time just to help us understand what that run rate would look like if that wasn't in there.

Then, Nikesh, if you could talk about the theme of advertising attribution and how that's going to help you potentially bring over more brand dollars. How do you think about bringing over those television dollars?

Is that something that's going to come sort of a big rush in 2014, or is this going to be a slow evolution over many years? Thanks.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Great, thanks, Ben. Why don't I start?

Look, on the discrete legal expense that impacted, it really impacted our G&A. Then the one-time M&A deal costs impacted all of our operating lines, but most prominently our R&D line, which you'll notice will have jumped a bit.

The one-time M&A deal costs are largely stemming from the Nest deal, which was a pretty large transaction for us this quarter. I think that the best way to describe it is that our expenses in Q1, they're completely in line with our objectives if you take apart these two items. So that's how I would describe it. Nikesh?

NIKESH ARORA: Thank you, Patrick.

Thank you, Ben.

The brand question is a very good question. What we've noticed in the past, let's just say year, year and a half, is that people have slowly started coming to the digital medium to create extension of their existing brand campaigns.

Like I mentioned the Super Bowl ad. People come to YouTube and say -- I'd like to reach certain audiences which are only available on digital medium. Hence, we see those advertising dollars shifting as in enhancing existing television or media campaigns.

The real fun will begin when people start doing campaigns exclusively in digital to go out and help them build brands. That requires us to get ahead of the curve and get into the creative process much earlier, because usually what we end up doing now is we get to the end of the creative process and they just want to extend their brand.

So we're working really hard to work with the creative ad agencies or the large agency groups as well as our advertisers to say, how can we get ahead of that creative process? How can we help you conceive of brand campaigns that actually start and end in digital, where perhaps you use TV as an extension medium as opposed to the other way around?

I think this is definitely the Holy Grail. This is going to take us a little bit of time to get there.

But with things like attribution in place with our deals with Nielsen and comScore, we are beginning to create the comparability saying, look the same dollar you spend on television equates to so many dollars on digital or vice versa.

The fact that we can give them cross-media measurement capability, we can give them comfort that their dollars are being well spent, even better spent on digital. It will go a long way in making sure that we get them to transition from just using traditional media to including digital in their media mix and eventually designing campaigns that start and end in digital.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thank you, Nikesh.

Jamie, let's go to our next question.

Thank you, Ben, for your question.

OPERATOR: Douglas Anmuth, JPMorgan.

DOUGLAS ANMUTH, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Two things I wanted to ask.

First, Patrick, just on the US, you had commented on the strength here in terms of 14% year over year. But it does look like on a sequential basis, we saw a little bit more of a decel than in recent 1Qs. Could you just comment if there's any factors there to point out?

Nikesh, can you just talk about the key drivers of mobile pricing going forward? How you think the gap can close with desktop over the coming quarters and years? Thanks.

PATRICK PICHETTE: All right, thank you, Doug, for your questions.

In the case of the US, if you think about it, we have the Q4 to Q1 issues that are typical. Then, as we've said before, the Network business does skew toward the US on a relative basis; so Network clearly grew slower than Site. So that's really what you see is that mix of the two.

But in aggregate, pretty pleased with the US growth overall. So that was a pretty strong quarter, really happy with it.

I'll let Nikesh answer the mobile question.

NIKESH ARORA: Doug, thank you again for the question.

I have had a firm belief, and I continue to hold on to it, that I believe in the medium to long term, mobile pricing has to be better than desktop pricing. The way to think about it is that in mobile you have location and you have context of individuals, which you don't have in the desktop.

The more you know about the user and their context, the more effective advertising can provide them, the better the conversion is likely to be for a search or any piece of advertising that you do. There's a whole bunch of building blocks that need to come into play for us, like you said, to get the gap to close.

The good news is a lot of people are spending a lot of time on mobile devices. There's a lot of mobile search queries we get.

People are more and more focused about what to look for on mobile devices. They are closer to intent; they are closer to transaction.

You see that there are a lot of frictionless ways of paying and converting transactions into commerce, which is happening with things like Instant Buy, etc.

You're also seeing that a lot of the advertisers are seeing the true value of making sure that they're present in a great experience on the mobile device. So part of our challenge has been that maybe you have had this huge mass of advertisers in the desktop, which over the last decade have become better at advertising, understanding optimization, understanding conversion, understanding transaction.

That journey is just beginning for advertisers on the mobile side. They're just beginning to understand what it takes for the end user to come transact on the website.

So like right now, we can lead the horse to the water; we can't make it drink. But, with all of the advertisers coming on board and working with us, we are actually beginning to show them real transactions. As that begins to gain traction, I think we begin to see that gap continue to converge.

DOUGLAS ANMUTH: Thank you.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thanks, Doug, for your question.

Jamie, let's go to the next question.

OPERATOR: Ross Sandler, Deutsche Bank.

ROSS SANDLER, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: I had a question on the Google Play app store revenues.

Nikesh, you just mentioned that you guys paid out 300% more revenue to developers in 2013 versus 2012. How much is Play contributing to the overall licensing another line?

There's clearly some lines, or some items in that line, that are not growing nearly as fast to get to the current 48% average. So, can you talk about maybe what's underperforming in that area?

Then last question on this topic is, I think if you go back to the infamous Andy Rubin slides from the Oracle case, the rev share was around 5% for Google Play app store rev share. Where is that now, and is it changing as the Android ecosystem gets larger? Thanks.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Why don't I take a shot at this?

Ross, if you think of our other revenue estimates for this quarter, first of all, we're really delighted by the Play business. You'll remember that a year ago we had -- I'm going to bring back everybody to Q1 of 2013. We have a lot of Nexus 4 hardware sales because we were in stock out in Q4.

That, in combination with the accounting change of our Play app content revenue recognition, again remember to Q1 of last year, both just simply created a bit of a tougher year-over-year comp from this quarter. Overall, very pleased with all of the big lines of growth in this space.

As per the rev share, I mean, obviously, this accounting change kind of goes to 30% rather than what you would have seen before, which would have been the net. But we don't divulge what the percentages are that we keep going forward. That's basically where we stand on it, and that's why we're pretty pleased with this line for this quarter.

NIKESH ARORA: If I could add to Patrick, I think the important part is it's taken us awhile to get all the capabilities in place around the world in different markets, making sure we have all the content we need, we have all the app providers we need, as well as we have the payment mechanisms. So we really are excited about the Google Play business going forward.

ROSS SANDLER: Great. Thanks, guys.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thanks, Ross.

Jamie, let's go to our next question.

OPERATOR: Mark May, Citi.

MARK MAY, ANALYST, CITI: Question regarding the CPC segmentation for next quarter.

While you might not be in a position to provide the specific datas points for Q1, I was hoping that maybe you could give us directionally how CPCs have trended between the owned and network businesses and what your expectation is going forward. Thanks.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Mark, you'll get the information in Q2.

What we really wanted to do was a recognition, as we think about giving more transparency to our shareholders, just looking at having, exactly as you just mentioned, the split between our core Sites and then the Network itself.

I think it will be useful for everybody. Then, obviously, we'll have the information going forward, so a lot of insight is going to come out of that. We're very pleased to be able to share it with you starting next quarter.

We've just made this decision over the last little while and shared it with the committee of the Board, so just stay tuned for next quarter on it.

MARK MAY: There are a number of dynamics that play into the blended CPC that you've called out before: property, policy, geo and device, among others. Once you provide this new layer of transparency, does that really capture the major -- is it really the property and maybe to some degree policy differences that are influencing CPCs between owned and network,?

Or will geo and devises continue to play a major role in the reported CPC, even once you provide this extra segmentation?

PATRICK PICHETTE: Well, they all will. And if we do make changes to policies that affect Network, you'll see that in a much more transparent way. So in that sense, it's a very positive kind of news.

Whether devises have effects on Network versus others, it will be much more difficult to see. Clearly, the impacts that are driven specifically for Network or for Sites, you'll be able to see on a quarter-by-quarter basis. I think that's good news for our investors.

Thank you, so much for your question, Mark.

Jamie, why do we go to our next question, please?

OPERATOR: Mark Mahaney, RBC Capital Markets.

MARK MAHANEY, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Two questions. On the UK revenue growth, that 11% number, and the partner websites that 4%, is there anything you'd want to call out as being unusual drags on those growth rates?

I think that UK is the lowest we've seen, and maybe that's just a lot of large numbers and really successful execution in that market. But anything you'd want to call out for either of those two revenue streams? Thanks.

PATRICK PICHETTE: As I said -- well, let me start with the UK.

The UK, look, combination of partner mix this quarter as well as, again, year over year matters a lot. And we happen to have, a year ago, a real revenue favorable weather. People tend to forget it, but last year we had a very strong Q1 for the UK. The combination of these two things, just year over year, made the comparison a little tighter for this quarter.

As it relates to websites, partner websites, I covered that a bit earlier. Again, you go back to last year where Network, if you think of Ad Exchange and AdMob continues to be very, very strong.

You will remember, again last year, that we started the DLA policy change in Q1 -- or maybe it was in Q4. But the impact of the DLA actually takes time to flow through.

We said that it would take multi quarters. So this has not flowed over completely; so what you have, again, there is very strong on the course where we want -- so the Ad Exchange and the AdMob,

But on the flip side of that, you still have the tails of the DLA change policy that's from a year ago. But the effects have not fully flowed through; so even in the coming quarters, you should see a bit of an effect there.

But overall, pretty pleased with, actually, these results, Mark.

MARK MAHANEY: Thank you, Patrick.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Jamie, let's go to our next question, please.

OPERATOR: Carlos Kirjner, Bernstein.

CARLOS KIRJNER, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & COMPANY, INC.: I have two questions.

First, in the last eight quarters, headcount had grown significantly slower than revenue. But this quarter you hired, I think, 2,300 people in the quarter; and headcount grew with revenues. Was this change in hiring rate mostly because of acquisitions? And marginally, what prevents you from hiring 2,300 people a quarter or even more as the business grows?

Secondly, Patrick, in the spirit of giving more transparency to shareholders, can you give us some color on what has driven such a sustained increase on CapEx over the last four quarters? Because I think clearly it's not just some lumpy behavior.

Are you buying data center sites in advance of demand? And if this is the case, can we infer that CapEx will revert to historical levels? Thank you.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thank you, Carlos, for both of these questions.

To the headcount question, I think you've basically nailed it intuitively, which is the acquisition of Nest. The acquisitions this quarter had quite a bit of people impact on this number.

If you think of our organic numbers, have actually not changed in any material way. So it just happened; you buy Nest and it comes with a lot of people.

We also had, you'll remember, the acquisition of DeepMind and a few others. So for us, we had the double hitter of having the opportunity to continue to attract people on an organic basis through our processes and these few acquisitions moved the needle quite a bit for us this quarter.

As it relates to CapEx, listen, you're right that we -- and I've mentioned this in the last couple of quarters and just a reminder to everybody -- if you think of the CapEx categories, data center is first and data center construction; then production equipment; then all other facilities. It's like the hierarchy of needs.

In the case of data center construction, we have found that the option value of having more capacity on stand by and available to us to grow versus not having it, is actually a real strategic issue for the Company.

In that sense, if for whatever reason we continue -- we had a spike in demand that was really pronounced and sustained for a couple quarters, and we did not have the capacity -- it would be a real issue strategically for us relative to the quite low cost of having the infrastructure in place.

That's why we're really pushing ahead of the curve and so it's with this view of long term. From that perspective you're also right that that's the mind set we're applying.

We've always said that CapEx was lumpy. So you have a good manifestation of it right now, right here.

Thank you for those two questions, Carlos.

CARLOS KIRJNER: Thank you.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Jamie, let's go to our next question, please.

OPERATOR: Stephen Ju, Credit Suisse.

STEPHEN JU, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Nikesh, in order to attract greater brand advertising dollars, it seems like safety and context are also important factors because you're certainly not falling short on reach. How close do you think you are to either engineering or coming up with some sort of a solution to contextualize all the video content on YouTube so you can guarantee your advertisers brand safety? Thanks.

NIKESH ARORA: That's a good question.

I think, as I alluded to, we are going to do an upfront in a few weeks in New York City called Google Preferred, which is our way of trying to create a premium concentration of content that we can have advertisers advertise against, which gives them a higher level of brand safety, a better level of measurement and hopefully, a place where they believe that they can actually build a brand.

Hopefully, that will manifest itself and our ability to have a premium compared to what we can attract in the market without providing those kinds of things. So that's a very good question. That's what we're hoping to achieve, and stay tuned for our detailed announcement of BrandCast.

STEPHEN JU: Thanks.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thanks, Stephen.

Jamie, let's go to our next question, please.

OPERATOR: Justin Post, Merrill Lynch.

JUSTIN POST, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: I have three quick things.

Did Enhanced Campaigns, which you rolled out over the summer, impact Q4? Do you see some more benefits coming this year?

Second, on PLAs, we think you had very good success in the US in Q4. Did that -- do you still have some benefits to come from that as you roll that out in Europe? How are you looking at the timing there versus how you rolled it out in the US?

Finally, in the first quarter, maybe you could call out specific verticals that might have been strong or weak for you. Thank you.

NIKESH ARORA: That's a good question, Justin, thank you.

I'm not sure I can give you a lot of detail in terms of precise impacts of any individual products that we have; but Enhanced Campaigns are working.

It was a necessity that we had to do them, both for process reasons as well as the reason that consumers are going from screen to screen, as well as advertisers need to advertise across multiple screens. From that perspective, Enhanced Campaigns is working. It's part of life here. We don't do anything without Enhanced Campaigns, across the board.

It's gone from Enhanced Campaigns to regular campaigns because we don't have any unenhanced campaigns anymore.

In terms of PLAs, it's something, as I alluded, was actually working. It's providing a lot of color in the shopping vertical; it's providing a lot of the whole new Shopping campaign effort that we have.

PLA is working for us, and it's working from multiple perspectives. It is providing users the detailed information that they need when they are declaring intent and saying -- I'd like to search for a particular product. Please don't send me to a website.

So it is working. We are going to roll that out once every time around the world. I cannot comment on the timing exactly, but I think both of those things are having a positive impact in our minds to everything we're doing around here.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Just to close on this, just a few verticals here, again completely reflecting the economy around us.

If you go to -- automobile has been quite strong across the world. Travel actually quite strong in the UK as well as in the rest of the world, a little bit less in the US. But just to give you a sense of, and then real estate, clearly in the US has been a strong vertical as well as in the UK.

Again, a good reflection of the economy there, Justin.

Google Trends, I always encourage people to go and check out Google Trends as well because they continue to give good insights as to what's going on in the economy, which we mirror in terms of verticals.

JUSTIN POST: Thanks, Patrick.

Thanks, Nikesh.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Jamie, let's go to our next question, please.

OPERATOR: Eric Sheridan, UBS.

ERIC SHERIDAN, ANALYST, UBS: So, two ones.

One for Nikesh. Nikesh, would love to get your view of the travel industry. How you are approaching that industry as a participant from an economic basis, not industry, both the marketing funnel and potentially the booking funnel longer term? There's been a lot written lately about the way in which you guys might approach that industry vertical.

Second, Patrick, for you, maybe taking a stab at the one-time expenses from a different approach. When we look at the model, if we take your comments before about smoothing out the expenses we saw in the back part of the year and even year on year, it appears the one-time expenses might have been about a 50 to 100 basis point impact on each of those two lines, which would have brought the blended number back up to somewhere between 75 to 150 basis points on margins.

Just wanted to take a stab at that from a different direction just to quantify it. Thanks, guys.

NIKESH ARORA: Thanks, Eric, for the question.

I was actually, while you were talking, I was pulling up the article which recently aired. Darren Houston talked about the effectiveness of Google advertising for Priceline. I think that's a public endorsement that all our efforts in the last many years around the travel industry are actually working.

They see tremendous value in our ability to help them bring more travelers to their sites and for them to help convert them into real transactions. Whatever we're doing is working.

I am suspecting that the comments you're talking about are our continued efforts in providing more and more detailed information when people do searches.

We've talked in the past before that people's information needs are getting more and more precise, and we have to keep evolving the results at Google, whether it's Knowledge cards or Google Now. All the things we do towards giving them more and more precise answers, in which case sometimes we are required to go work with various industries to get the underlying data to surface it when the users are looking as opposed to send them to other sites, where they have to go through that search process again.

I think you can expect us to continue to do that, but our intent there is to provide a better answer for the users whether it's on their desktop or mobile devices. Accordingly, we also work together with the advertisers to provide them various advertising opportunities, which allow them to work effectively with the end user and provide them the answer that they're looking for or perhaps, in this case, the ticket or the hotel booking that they're looking for.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Great. And on my side, Eric, as I said in my earlier comments, our Q1 expenses were completely in line with our objectives. There's always seasonality, as you've noticed. From Q4 to Q1, we spend less on marketing; so that's true for this year as well.

For the other areas, we would have been in line with the objectives we'd set for ourselves. These one-time costs were genuinely, in that spirit, truly one time.

I mean, when you acquire Nest for a bit over $3 billion, there's just a lot of stuff that flows through the P&L, a lot of accounting. That's really the issue there. So I would go back to your instinct of, at least we should be roughly in line with our expectations were. That's why the nature of truly extraordinary items.

Thanks for that question.

ERIC SHERIDAN: Thank you.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Jamie, let's go to our next question, please.

OPERATOR: Peter Stabler, Wells Fargo Securities.

PETER STABLER, ANALYST, WELLS FARGO SECURITIES: Wanted to revisit attribution for a moment.

There are different aspects to attribution. I think you guys are doing a great job on the cross-screen attribution and taking advantage of your ubiquitous logins across different platforms in Enhanced Campaigns.

Wanted to get a better understanding of how you're thinking about online versus offline attribution for those types of marketers, particularly brand advertisers, supermarket advertisers, the 30,000 SKUs in those retail channels that don't have eCommerce and really don't have much of a search opportunity.

How are you helping them close the gap between their online activity and offline sales? Thanks very much.

NIKESH ARORA: Thanks, Peter. Thanks again for the question.

I think, as you rightfully pointed out, the attribution story on the advertising side is becoming clearer as we partner with Nielsen and comScore have adopted some of the mechanisms that traditional media has used to create the comparability between traditional and new media.

I think you identify a good challenge, which is how do we bridge the gap between online commerce and offline commerce and relate that to the advertising opportunity? I.e. when we sell search or we sell traffic to different people, how do we convince them? How do we make them realize that that traffic that they bought not only results in online sales but also results in offline sales in stores? And how do we encourage that activity?

Over the past many years, around the world, we have run specific studies working with various advertisers, which I call online-to-store studies, where we actually try and measure what online activity created by them through control groups results in more foot traffic in their particular stores in certain regions at our end.

We pretty much have very good results across-the-board. I can't detail specifics right now because they are all specific to individual advertisers who we work with. But we do understand that opportunity and the problem. And we work specifically with third-party research teams to work on figuring out how do we keep showing the online-to-store efficacy?

There are other products, as you can see, where we start doing conversion. We start looking at things like Google Shopping, especially, which also helps in those areas. Thanks, again.

PETER STABLER: Thanks for the color.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Jamie, let's go to our next question, please.

OPERATOR: Heather Bellini, Goldman Sachs.

HEATHER BELLINI, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: I just wanted to go back to an earlier question.

There was a -- you responded about the building blocks that were needed in order to get mobile pricing, mobile CPCs to converge with desktop. I was just wondering if you could share with us, specifically, what you think those building blocks are that need to happen over the medium to long term, as you said, to see that convergence occur? Thank you.

NIKESH ARORA: Of course, thanks, Heather, for the question.

Look, there are some very simple things; and there are some complicated things. The simple things are, we need to make sure that there is payment enablement for users. So, i.e., users have a mechanism that allows them to pay with the lowest amount of friction.

Because honestly, you and I don't want to spend our lives trying to enter payment information on a very small screen where we're trying to conduct a transaction. That enablement is happening across the industry, across multiple payment platforms.

There's also the need that when people search for some things they can get quickly down to the information and they don't have to browse multiple sites, because people are more keen on declaring intent on mobile devices then going and surfing multiple websites and trying to figure out what they are trying to do.

That intent could be in the form of restaurant. It could be in the form of a taxi, could be in the form of them looking for individual product. You're beginning to see apps. You're beginning to see solutions in search that allow you to get to that granularity of information.

Now, of course, there's a big building block, which is getting all the people out there, which are the advertisers, effectively in this case the merchants, who actually have to have experiences in mobile side, which are simpler to execute on.

Try buying something on many companies' mobile websites, and it's more onerous than their desktop sites because they've been spending a decade trying to optimize the desktop site, when they haven't spent enough time optimizing their mobile experience. In some cases, not believing that people want to transact with them on their mobile device. In some cases, they are just slow; and they are just slowly diverting resources from the desktop to mobile.

If you take all those things, and if you take the notion that we need to keep working hard towards getting these building blocks in place, I think there is a finite time where these building blocks will come into place. And as they keep coming into place, you will see, or as we talked about earlier, perhaps the convergence will happen between pricing and mobile and desktop.

But there's a whole bunch of other issues that go into it. Those are the big things I can think of, right now.

HEATHER BELLINI: Thanks so much.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Jamie, let's go to our next question, please.

OPERATOR: Colin Sebastian, Robert Baird.

COLIN SEBASTIAN, ANALYST, ROBERT W. BAIRD & COMPANY: I wanted to ask you a question on the Cloud platform since this is, obviously, a huge revenue opportunity for you. First off, if you could put some context around the impact of this business on CapEx and OpEx, particularly on the infrastructure of the service part of the business.

Secondly, if you could talk about how you're planning to differentiate this service? Is it really about pricing, or is it by tying in the software and platform as a service offering -- if you could touch on that. Thanks very much.

PATRICK PICHETTE: I can cover the first part, and then I'll let Nikesh cover the second.

We're very comfortable with our cost structure in light of Google efficiencies, economies of scale, our vertical integration from data center to chip to servers to software. I mean, we believe we have an absolute unique position from a cost structure perspective. Therefore, from a margin perspective makes us very, very comfortable. In terms of differentiation, I'll just let Nikesh jump in here.

NIKESH ARORA: Thank you, again, for the question.

The important part to at least acknowledge in the space of cloud computing is we think it's very, very early days. If you think about the potential scope and scale of what this opportunity is, that pretty much every business which is going to be around for the long term has to operate in the cloud.

There's no efficiency compared to the efficiency of the cloud, compared to owning your own infrastructure and running it by yourself. So this shift is going to happen. It's a matter of every company going through that shift one at a time.

If you look at the opportunities out there and the options, there are very few options. There's a lot of room for all of us to have a great time for many, many years before we start worrying about differentiation and why my thing is better than yours.

Right now, the key is to be able to work with the companies out there, the enterprise customers out there, to get them to shift of their legacy systems, get on to the cloud, and realize that Google has been working in the cloud for more than a decade because we have been running one of the largest cloud computing platforms in the world and in the public space.

We have all the expertise and the skills that are required to be able to serve these enterprises and get them off their current legacy systems onto the cloud. Our effort is really trying to work with each of these with third-party partners trying to get them off their legacy systems onto our Cloud.

I don't think the challenge right now is the need to differentiate. I think our biggest differentiator is we have the most experience in the space.

COLIN SEBASTIAN: Great, thank you.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Jamie, we'll go to our next question, please.

OPERATOR: Jordan Monahan, Morgan Stanley.

JORDAN MONAHAN, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Actually, two if I may.

A couple of big picture questions, I think for Nikesh. The first is that I think there's an ongoing debate about whether mobile web or mobile app is going to win and what the implications are for various businesses, Google included. I'm just curious to get your view on whether you think one will win over the other and then whether it matters for Google.

The second is, when you look at Google's share of global advertising, you're coming up on about 10% of total. But when you look at your business in the UK, you're north of 20% of total. When you think about your global businesses as economies start to mature, do you think the UK is a fair proxy for thinking about your business globally? Or are there other factors that you think may prevent you from getting to that type of scale globally?

NIKESH ARORA: Let me answer the second question first, Jordan, because I'm standing here. Patrick is looking at me asking the same question.

The way to think about it is that we have 10%, by some metric, depending on what we believe the total is. As per your metric, we have 10% of the total advertising money; and in the UK, we have 20%. That just tells me there's 90% more opportunity around the world and 80% more opportunity in the UK.

We're not going to constrain our thinking in terms of what believe is a stable state. Our aspiration is to be able to serve every advertiser in the long term, and our hope is that every piece of advertising becomes digital advertising. The question is how much of that are we able to provide through our technology platforms? How much are we able to provide through our own properties and how much do we partner with others to provide on their network?

I guess I'm trying to tell you that we don't constrain ourselves in our thinking. I'm not trying to be arrogant and say we want 100%, but we'd like more than what we have in every market out there.

In terms of your question around the mobile web and mobile search, that is a tough question. That is very involved question, and I think the approach, the best way to think about it is that we're trying to make sure that we can make both of them effective for the end user and make them both work because we're not about to try and pick winners.

Right now, you can see that people spend as much time on mobile devices and more time on mobile devices than they have been able to spend on the desktop. And, they're spending their time across the mobile web, as well as the mobile app landscape.

We are participating in both those ecosystems, whether it's through or Play Store or the App front, whether it's through our browser-based search properties or through our app-based search properties. We're participating across the board. I think at the end of the day, it's going to boil down to ease of use and consumer choice.

JORDAN MONAHAN: Thank you.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Let's go to our next question, please, Jamie.

OPERATOR: Robert Peck, SunTrust.

ROBERT PECK, ANALYST, SUNTRUST ROBINSON HUMPHREY: Two questions, if you don't mind.

The first one is on the revenue side. Can you talk a little bit, maybe give us an update about the break out of YouTube verses DoubleClick revenues? Where are those today, and where could they be over time?

Then, on the cost side, Patrick, could you just walk us through just how do you think about the ROI on capital? We get a lot of questions from investors asking about spending it. Could you maybe tell us more about the thought process of how the Company looks at the ROIC of capital going forward? Thank you.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Okay. Well, Robert, let's start with the last one first; and then we'll go back to revenue.

ROI, clearly, we always look at capital intensity. The fact that we're investing quite a bit in CapEx right now is a real tribute to the potential and the optimism we have about our businesses going forward.

Most of our core businesses, if you think of YouTube or advertising or Search, are not that capital intensive relative to other areas that we have such as for example, Google Fiber, if you think of the access portion, which is much more traditional CapEx.

For each of these areas, we actually track and make sure that we have good returns and we have a capital efficient. So, even though an area that -- take the advertising business that we run -- even though you could argue that it's phenomenally good on return on capital, the questions that we will ask internally is -- Okay, so if the utilization rate is X on our machines on this business, why can't it be X plus something?

So even though we have already good return on capital in these areas, we continue to always push the envelope to make sure that our capital efficiency continues to be better and better on a year-to-year basis. Then across a portfolio, every area has some capital targets to make sure that we are driving for value.

Finally, there are a number of areas, if you think of -- take the newer stuff, like Loon, for example. In those cases, you test through the hurdles that we seed capital to the Loon team as they hit their hurdles and they earned their right to the next cost for funding. In doing so, we continue to always have the business case in mind that says here is why this continues to make sense to fund and invest.

With an ROIC or value in mind for the long term, but in the short term it's really delivery of milestones on very specific engineering objectives that actually gives them the next round of funding.

Robert, as you can see, given the portfolio of mature stuff we have and growing areas, as well as much more R&D and innovation at the early stages, we just need to have a basket of tools to actually manage the concept of ROIC or ROI on each of them.

That's what we do. It's not rocket science. It just requires a lot of discipline on our part.

On the revenue side, we don't break out DoubleClick or YouTube. I can just tell you, as I had mentioned a bit earlier, we're really pleased with our Network revenue in the AdMob, Ad Exchange.

Many of our areas continue to grow very well; and we're very, very pleased by these investments and, clearly, continue to be very pleased with YouTube, as Nikesh mentioned a bit earlier.

ROBERT PECK: Thank you very much.

PATRICK PICHETTE: That's the story there, thank you.

Jamie, we'll take one last question. We're running out of time. So we'll take one last question, if you don't mind.

OPERATOR: Gene Munster, Piper Jaffrey.

GENE MUNSTER, ANALYST, PIPER JAFFRAY & COMPANY: Another question regarding trends in mobile CPCs.

I know yesterday you announced an offline conversion tracking plan and program with Datalogic. Is that something, potentially, the whole online/offline tracking that could have a positive impact on CPCs and, separately, any updates on how you think about fiber longer term? Thanks.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Okay, so why don't I take the last portion; and then Nikesh may have views on this data conversion plan.

On Fiber, you've heard our announcement earlier this quarter, where we're working with 34 cities and looking for working with these municipalities, where they've indicated to us they are really excited about. They kind of self-selected to be really excited about getting fiber and the next generation of access.

So right now, we're basically working directly with them to look if we have the right conditions to actually go to the next stage, which would be the build. So very excited about it. I think that it's a really good sign of things to come in access in general. I think that everybody now in the industry is talking about the gig. It's becoming the standard.

We're absolutely thrilled for all of the users out there that can think that they'll one day get a gigabit of symmetrical Internet at reasonable price. So stay tuned on the next part of the chapter, but really excited to work with these communities.

Nikesh, maybe you want to talk about --?

NIKESH ARORA: Yes, thank you, Gene.

As I mentioned earlier, and the question earlier from I think it was Heather, that the online-to-offline conversions are a really important opportunity where it's important for offline merchants to be able to understand what results they get from their online activity. Some of the experiments that we talked about required partnerships with third-party data providers to understand how that happens.

I think Datalogic is one of those things which we are looking to see how we can help quantify the opportunity and quantify the answer for our offline partners. It's just one of those things that we're doing.

GENE MUNSTER: Great, thank you.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Just in closing before I hand it over to Jamie, just to reiterate the point that Nikesh made a bit earlier, to all of our Googlers out there and all of our partners out there, thank you so much for the great work in Q1. What a great start to the year. Then, we'll see you in Q2. Thanks a million.

Jamie, I'll leave it with you to close the call, please.

OPERATOR: Thank you. Again, that does conclude today's conference.

We do thank everyone for your participation. Please have a great day.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
goog : Google Inc.
   IN
iappsp : Cloud Computing | i8394 : Computer Services | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | i8395464 : Internet Search Engines | iint : Internet/Online | itech : Technology
   NS
c151 : Earnings | niex : Interviews with Corporate Executives | nitv : Interviews | ntra : Transcripts | c32 : Advertising | c15 : Performance | c31 : Marketing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | uk : United Kingdom | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020140418ea4g004h5
  


 HD
 Q4  2013 Google Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
10,488 words
   PD
30 January 2014
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©014 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day, everyone and welcome to the Google Inc. fourth quarter 2013 earnings call.

   TD
Today's call is being recorded.

At this time I would like to turn the call over to Jane Penner, Director of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.

JANE PENNER, DIRECTOR IR, GOOGLE INC: Good afternoon, everyone, and welcome to Google's fourth quarter 2013 earnings conference call. With us now are Patrick Pichette, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Nikesh Arora, Senior Vice President and Chief Business Officer.

Also as you know, we distribute our Earnings Release through our Investor Relations website located at investor.google.com, so please refer to our IR website for our Earnings Releases as well as the supplementary slides that accompany the call. You can also visit our Google plus investor relations page for the latest Company news and updates. Please check it out.

This call is also being webcast from investor.google.com. A replay of the call will be available on our website later today. Now let me quickly cover the Safe Harbor. Some of the statements that we make today may be considered forward-looking including statements regarding Google's future investments, our long term growth and innovation, the expected performance of our businesses, and our expected level of Capital Expenditures. These statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially.

Please note that these forward-looking statements reflect our opinions only as of the date of this presentation and we undertake no obligation to revise or publicly release the results of any revisions to these forward-looking statements in light of new information or future events. Please refer to our SEC filings for a more detailed description of the risk factors that may affect our results.

Please note that certain financial measures that we use on this call such as operating income and operating margin are expressed on a non-GAAP basis and have been adjusted to exclude charges related to stock based compensation and restructuring.

We have also adjusted our net cash provided by operating activities to remove capital expenditures, which we refer to as free cash flow. Our GAAP results and reconciliations of non-GAAP to GAAP measures can be found in our earnings press release.

With that I'll turn the call over to Patrick.

PATRICK PICHETTE, SVP, CFO, PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING OFFICER, GOOGLE INC: Thank you, Jane, good afternoon everyone. It's Patrick. And you may remember we mentioned last quarter that Larry will no longer be joining us on a regular basis on this call as he focuses his energy on running the Company. But consistent with our prior calls Nikesh and I will be here.

We'll cover the performance as well as answer any questions you may have about the business including significant ad product launches or other developments. And in the case that you have a very, very detailed product related question in some case we may simply take it offline with you.

But with that, why don't we just dive into the details of our financial performance for Q4. Our gross total consolidated revenue for the quarter was $16.9 billion and the overall business was up 17% year-over-year and 13% quarter-over-quarter.

Our Google segment gross revenue grew a healthy 22% year-over-year to $15.7 billion and it was up 14% quarter-over-quarter. Without currency fluctuations, the Google segment revenue growth would have been 23% year-over-year and 13% quarter-over-quarter.

Our Google sites revenue was up 22% year-over-year to $10.6 billion and was up 12% quarter over quarter, driven by the strength of our core search advertising business. Network revenue was up 3% year-over-year at $3.5 billion and was up 12% quarter-over-quarter. This was driven in part by easier year-over-year comparisons as we anniversary some of our ads policy changes implemented at the end of 2012, but we also saw improved year-over-year growth from our ad exchange.

Finally, Google's other revenue grew 99%, almost double year-over-year to $1.6 billion and was up 34% quarter-over-quarter. The digital sales of Apps and content in our Play store drove the year-over-year growth in this line, as did hardware sales. And the Play hardware sales drove a big chunk of the quarter-over-quarter growth.

Turning to Motorola segment, gross revenue was $1.2 billion. As we announced yesterday, Lenovo plans to acquire our Motorola business for approximately $2.9 billion. This is great news for Motorola and the Android ecosystem. And as Larry noted in our Press Release, Lenovo has the expertise and the track record to scale Motorola Mobility into a major player within the Android ecosystem.

Coming back to our Google segment, our global aggregate paid click growth was strong this quarter, up 31% year-over-year and up 13% quarter-over-quarter. Our aggregate cost per click was down 11% year-over-year and down 2% quarter over quarter. And please note that currency fluctuations had a minimal impact on Q4 on the cost per click.

Our monetization metrics continue to be impacted by a number of factors discussed on previous calls including FX, geographic mix, platform mix, property mix, as well as product and policy changes.

Turning to geographic performance of our Google segment, we saw improved performance in the US and UK, and strong performance in the rest of the world.

In our earnings slides you can find in our Investor Relations website you'll see that we've broken down our revenue by the US, UK and rest of world to show the impact of FX and the benefits of our hedging program. So please refer to those slides for the exact calculations.

US revenue was up 16% year-over-year to $6.9 billion. The UK was up 15% year-over-year to $1.5 billion which includes a small $2 million benefit from our hedging program. So currency fluctuation had minimal impact on UK revenues in Q4.

Our non-US revenue excluding the UK was up 30% year-over-year to $7.3 billion. And this accounted for 46% of our total revenue, which included again a very small benefit from our hedging program. In fixed FX terms the rest of world grew a strong 33% year-over-year.

So let's come back to an aggregate level for the total consolidated business. Our non-GAAP other cost of revenue was $4 billion in Q4, excluding stock based compensation and Motorola restructuring. Our non-GAAP operating expenses totaled $4.8 billion, again excluding SBC and Motorola restructuring. And our non-GAAP operating profit was $4.8 billion in Q4, resulting in a non-GAAP operating margin for the consolidated business of 29%.

For our Google segment specifically our traffic acquisition costs were $3.3 billion or 24% of total advertising revenue. The other cost of revenue was $2.8 billion, excluding $127 million of stock based compensation. And our Google segment operating expenses were $4.3 billion, again excluding SBC of $746 million.

Depreciation and amortization expenses on property, plant and equipment for the Google segment was $660 million this quarter, and Google segment profitability was $5.3 billion in Q4, resulting in a Google segment operating margin of 34%.

At Motorola, total segment operating expenses including cost of revenue were $1.6 billion, excluding $29 million of SBC and $15 million of restructuring charges for Motorola. And keep in mind that intangible amortization expenses attributed to Google segment and Motorola segments are included in these segment measures.

Of the $279 million in consolidated intangible expense this quarter $153 million was the result of the acquisition of Motorola, of which $116 million was allocated to Google and $37 million was allocated to the Motorola segment. As a result, the operating loss for the Motorola segment was $384 million in Q4 and the operating margin for that segment was negative 31%.

Our head count for the consolidated business was up roughly 1,300 people in Q4. Google segment added 1,700 people during the quarter. And in total the consolidated Company ended the quarter with approximately 48,000 full time employees.

Our effective tax rate was 16% in Q4. This tax rate this quarter was impacted by the continuing mix shift of earnings between our domestic and international subsidiaries.

Let me now turn to cash management. Our OI&E was $125 million for the quarter. Interest income and realized gains on investments offset the continued impact of our FAS133 expense from our hedging program. For more detail on OI&E, please refer to the slides that accompany this call on our IR website.

We continue to be happy with our strong operating cash flow at $5.2 billion, CapEx for the quarter was $2.3 billion. And this quarter the majority of our CapEx spend was related to production equipment, data center construction, and Real Estate purchases.

As I mentioned last quarter during my remarks, we continue to invest for the long term and our infrastructure continues to be a key strategic area for us to invest. Our Free Cash Flow in consequence of all this was $3 billion. So there you have it. Strong results and an optimism that provides us the confidence to fund strategic growth opportunities, including Android, Chrome, YouTube, Enterprise just to name a few.

Before I wrap up, I want to cover two quick things. First, I want to remind everybody as I do every time at this time of year, that as we start a New Year, things such as employer taxes, 401(k)'s and all these other related accruals tend to be front loaded in the year. So please consider this as you model your forecasts. Â¶

And second, before I hand it off to Nikesh, I want to give an update on our issuance of Class C shares. Our Board of Directors has formerly approved a Class C dividend and has set the March 27, 2014 as the record date and April 2 of this year as the issuance date. So we expect the Class C shares to begin trading on April 3, 2014.

We're excited to announce that the Class C shares will actually trade under our original ticker, that is GOOG, while the Class A shares will trade under a new ticker, GOOGL. We're setting up a link on our Investor Relations site so that it can give you more information on the Class C dividend.

And with that, I'll let Nikesh cover the details of our business performance in the quarter, and after his remarks we'll open up the phone lines for questions. So here you go, Nikesh.

NIKESH ARORA, PRESIDENT - GLOBAL SALES OPERATIONS & BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT, GOOGLE INC: Thank you, Patrick.

As Patrick mentioned our business had a strong quarter at $15.7 billion in Google segment gross revenue. Overall, performance was strong in retail and automotive and CPG sectors. We had particularly good growth in Asia Pacific, including its various emerging countries, as well as in Southern Europe.

I want to talk about three areas that are fueling growth for Google and our clients. First, our continued efforts to help performance marketeers reach customers and drive action across screens. Second, our continued progress in brand advertising. And third, our ad technology platforms used by thousands of agencies and publishers.

Then I'll say a few words about newer areas like digital content, hardware and enterprise. On performance, performance advertising continues to be a main stay of our core business. We're seeing good growth. Is driven primarily by increased search activity across all screens. Is driven by new measurement features and more sophisticated marketeers that are lining their search and display advertising strategies.

Last year we made the move to enhance campaigns in Ad Words. Twelve months in, marketeers tell us it helps them get results and reach people across screens in a big way. Our internal slogan for this is, advertisers' ROIs don't lie.

We also rolled out estimated total conversions. Marketeers can now measure results like calls and conversions that take place on indifferent devises. For example, 1-800-flowers discovered a 7% increase in overall conversions when they figured out that conversions that start in one device and end on the other. This is a great example of our vision as it relates to the seamless multi-screen marketing and something that was the impetus for us to launch enhanced campaigns.

In the holiday season one thing has become very clear. The web is truly become the new holiday store window. It's the first place people go, and it's where everyone gets excited about holiday shopping. In the US, Wal-Mart continues to use Google Search more and more. They're investing with us more than ever before to drive sales during the holiday season.

There's also great momentum in product listing ads and we continue to improve the experience of shoppers and retailers. Last quarter, Google Shopping came to eight more countries. We even helped deliver products to your doorstep in just a few hours. Google Shopping Express, our same day delivery service, has been open to shoppers in the Bay Area since last year and I'm very pleased with the feedback we've gotten from our partners and users.

Now moving on to brand marketing, working closer and closer with brand advertisers has been a big priority for us and we're making great strides. You might have seen all of the teaser ads running on YouTube ahead of the big game for Sunday. Now given my personal passion for cricket and lack of pretty much any knowledge of American football, I decided to turn to Google trends and see who's leading.

I see that Seahawks have more searches than the Broncos so that's my bet for the Super Bowl. But folks in Denver better get searching if they want the Broncos to win. I don't know what that means for the big game on Sunday but I do know that we are becoming essential to the biggest brand building campaigns in the world.

There's three big areas of focus that brands and our agency partners really like. First, building out great content on YouTube. YouTube gives brands amazing reach and a passionate unique audience you can't get elsewhere. YouTube has over a billion viewers mower and 50% increase in daily watch time last year.

Second, the best digital marketing captivates people when its by the web for the web. It's so much more than simply taking television ads and transplanting them on YouTube. So we're investing in creative ad formats that pivot around user engagement like True View or engagement ads across the web. Last year for the first time three videos by brand marketeers were on YouTube's list of Top 10 videos for 2013.

Third, and importantly, better measurement that enables brand and agencies to measure and optimize campaigns based on metrics like reach, recall or awareness. Last quarter we enabled advertisers in our Google Display network to start buying ads based on viewable impressions, a fancy way of saying ads that people actually saw. In November, we began testing Nielsen OCR, measurement on YouTube and network. There's a lot more to come here but an important step to helping brands invest online.

We think our efforts are really resonating with major clients and agencies from around the world. Our sales team continues to fire on all cylinders and I'm really pleased we hired Kirk Perry as our President of Brand Solutions from Proctor & Gamble. His role is to help the largest brand and agencies in the world embrace digital marketing more and more. He speaks their language, so we hope that he will be able to convince them that the future for brands is truly digital.

We work with Kraft to build a series of engagement ads, showcasing brand videos, recipes and coupons for its new Fresh Steak brand. That campaign was very successful and lead to an impressive 2.9% engagement rate and an average engagement time of 48 seconds. Moving on to our ad technologies platforms. Our DoubleClick buying tools continue to be the choice of agencies around the world and we are really benefiting from the growth in programmatic spend.

One trend we're seeing is the move towards private ad exchanges, in which a premium publisher uses our technology to make ad space available to a small number of hand picked, high quality and highly qualified advertisers. This can provide a very safe realtime environment for both brand and publishers.

The volume of impression running through our private exchanges has on average doubled every quarter over the past year. Overall, our monetization solutions like our Ad Exchange, AdSense and AdMob are helping major publishers maximize their revenues from digital advertising. So that's our core ads business.

Let's talk about our trifecta of emerging new businesses, Google Play, Hardware and Enterprise. GooglePlay continues to win the hearts and minds of people. The latest books, newspapers and magazines, 20 million songs, thousands of movies, textbooks, all access music. You can live your life on Google Play. People love it so far.

This quarter we introduced the Google Play Newsstand that brings together more than 2,000 free and paid news sources including newspapers like the New York Times, Wall Street Journal, Financial Times. And we also introduced Google Play for education to design for schools of educator approved Apps, as well as tools to easily set up a classroom of tablets in minutes.

We had strong holiday season for our growing suite of Hardware products. One of the things that has done really well for us is Chrome Cast. It continues to be a living room favorite, remaining a best selling product throughout the entire quarter. We've also been adding to the growing business of content available through Chrome Cast with new supported Apps like Hulu Plus, HBO Go and Pandora with more to come.

Chrome books are also seeing great momentum with eight of the top manufactures of computers now making Chrome books, including new devices from both Dell and Toshiba. One in four devices sold into K-12 education in the US is a Chrome book according to FutureSource.

We're also seeing strong momentum in Nexus Hardware with great reception for Nexus 5. And as cars become more connected we recently teamed up with the automotive technology leaders, Audi, GM, Honda, Hyundai, and Nvidia to form the Open Automotive Alliance.

Our enterprise business continues to grow steadily as more businesses than ever want their employees to work the way they live. We're seeing great momentum in the retail space. There is supermarket Waitrose, the clothing retailers Chico's, and the fashion accessory brand Fossil have all gone Google this quarter.

On the cloud platform side we announced Google compute engine is now generally available supporting additional Operating Systems at new lower prices.

But before I close, I also want to give a shout out to our marketing team in particularly they have really helped drive the success of Google Play and our Hardware products over the holidays. They've been able to do that through great effective advertising and creating awesome retail environments.

And of course, thanks to all of the Googlers and our partners for helping us have a terrific quarter. You're not just embracing the future, you're helping to shape it.

With that I'll hand it over to Patrick.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thank you, Nikesh. So, Jamie, we'll look for your instructions to open the lines and get on to the Q & A please.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: Thank you. (Operator Instructions) We'll take our first question from Carlos Kirjner with Bernstein.

CARLOS KIRJNER, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & CO.: Thank you, two quick questions.

Patrick, if you took your five or six major geographies for Search and for each of them you plotted separately the evolution of CPCs for mobile and for PCs and tablets, and you look at these curves from 5,000 feet would they be mostly going up, down, flat, or all over the place?

And secondly, could you let us know if Google compute engine and Google App engine are significant drivers of CapEx, 5% or more of your CapEx?

Thank you.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Okay, so let me jump by the second one first.

Compute engine, most of our CapEx right now is really driven by data center construction and machines that are actually driving both the core businesses of Google, and, of course, App engine. But App engine I wouldn't describe as any of the core areas where we're seeing a ton of growth. Not that App engine is not successful, it's just that when you compare it to Search or other elements that kind of use a lot more capacity.

In the case of your first question, it's very clear that we don't usually break down each of these geographies, but the fundamental trends are happening across the web, right? And in the same way, so all this issue of some markets are growing much faster which is the emerging markets, so you can see, you can infer that from our results obviously.

Clearly there's a shift between all those platforms whether it be mobile tablet and desktop again across the world, so you can infer that as well. Our sites versus network, the US is a strong network area, everybody knows that.

And so you can basically from your own inference pick and part these elements. But they together move to actually really make the ecosystem vibrant and growing. And at the end of the day, what you have to as just how did you say it? ROIs don't lie, Nikesh? So I mean at the end of the day that's what you're pleased about. You're pleased about great results for our users that give them exactly the right answer they're looking for and great answers for our advertisers.

So that how we actually you should think about it Carlos. Thank you for your question. Let's go to our next question Jamie.

OPERATOR: We'll take our next question from Mark May with Citi. And Mr. May if you could check your mute button, at this time we cannot hear you.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Why don't we go to the next question and then Mark can show back up.

OPERATOR: Thank you. We'll go next to Scott Devitt with Morgan Stanley.

JORDAN MONAHAN, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Oh, great, thank you. It's actually Jordan for Scott.

I guess two quick questions. The first is you didn't talk much about Nest, and so we were curious whether you are primarily interested their design team or product or something else?

And then on the other revenue line, what was the contribution to the other revenue line from Chrome books or Chrome otherwise in the enterprise?

PATRICK PICHETTE: Alright, thank you for your question, Scott. In the case of Nest, look, Nest and Google share a real common vision. Nest, both of us believe that technology should be doing the hard work so that people can get on with their lives and do great things. So our goal is really in the case of Nest is to help them scale, right?

And bringing the resources of Google to increase their investments, reach broader audiences and then scale internationally. So for us it's a terrific opportunity. And then bring people like being able to attract people like Tony and Matt to the team is actually wonderful. So that's really the context of Nest.

Your second question, let me just go back to your second question. Oh, the other revenue line. Well actually, as I mentioned in my comments, the other revenue it really grew well. Like just under 100% year-over-year.

If you look year-over-year, the biggest contribution was actually on the Play, Apps and content. But quarter-over-quarter because of seasonality, obviously it's Hardware but it's both a combination of Nexus 5 which was very strong for us and the Chromecast.

You've got to remember that most of the Chrome books are actually sold through other parties, so we're really a facilitator rather than -- so we don't book revenue on the Chrome books.

So that's really the puzzle, Scott. Thank you for your question, why don't we go to the next question, please.

OPERATOR: We'll take our next question from Douglas Anmuth with JPMorgan.

DOUGLAS ANMUTH, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Great. Thanks for taking the question. Nikesh, I just wanted to ask you about YouTube in particular. If you could help us understand the growth that you're seeing in terms of YouTube advertising revenue?

And then secondly, just on Nielsen OCR tagging if you could give us some early marketer feedback in terms of what you're seeing there? And then a little bit more color on your decision to go with outside measurement rather than how you've been doing it internally. Thanks.

NIKESH ARORA: Yes, sure. Look, I think as I mentioned in my prepared remarks, YouTube is part of our core advertising business, so both Search and YouTube are doing well for us around the world. It is part of a broader shift where we're seeing brand marketeers, and if you saw, as I said, our strength this quarter was not just from retail and automotive, also from CPG.

And part of our ability to get CPG customers to come and advertise with us is our ability to convince them that brands can be built on the internet. And YouTube is clearly a key player in our vis-a-vis brand story because of the advertisers they still think visually, they still think video when they think brand advertising, not just text ad.

So I think YouTube is definitely a key part of our brand story, and it continues to do well. I think our teams around the world have sort of figured out how to pitch YouTube to large customers and customers are paying attention. So I think YouTube continues to do well in addition to our core Search business and people are seeing value of YouTube vis-a-vis brands.

In terms of the OCR tagging and our decision to do it internally versus externally, I think, look, in the long term what advertisers want is a third party to endorse various media. It's very hard for us being a media owner to be the person providing measurement against our own media.

At the same time we believe there is tremendous amounts of development that can be done in the space of measurement where traditional measurement has been both sort of after the fact and also has been on very limited set of parameters. And we believe we as a team can not only increase the parameters that you can measure given the digital world, we also believe that you can look at different metrics simultaneously in a dynamic way and also create new metrics for the future.

So our metrics efforts internally have been focused towards computing future metrics as well as more dynamic metrics, as opposed to passive or legacy metrics. But that's work that we continue to do. We continue to work with third parties outside including Nielsen and other players in the industry because we believe that's where the measurement industry needs to go. And eventually we have to work with them to get them to evolve with us in that direction.

In terms of the early feedback from Nielsen OCR tagging I think it's sort of like -- it's table stakes. You have to have Nielsen OCR or some metric that is common across various media in the market for advertisers to be able to measure your effectiveness or your relevancy vis-a-vis somebody else.

So I think what we've done this is just early table stakes, which is sort of a comfort factor for advertisers, that they see that they can look at Nielsen OCR metrics vis-a-vis us and other people and get a sense they aren't spending their money in an unwise fashion.

But I think there's tremendous amounts of evolution and development that's going to happen in this space.

DOUGLAS ANMUTH: Great. Thanks, Nikesh.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thanks, Nikesh. Jamie, why don't we go to the next question?

OPERATOR: We will take a question from Mark May with Citi.

MARK MAY, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: I apologize about earlier. A question around Google Play. I believe today and just the App business, mobile App business in general for Google. I believe today you don't do a lot in the way of App marketing, for instance map and App install-type advertising. First is that true? And if so, is that an opportunity for Google?

And then secondly, it seems like that there's a lot of discussion in the market and dollars being put against identity-based ad targeting in addition to or in lieu of cookie-based advertising. What are your thoughts on that? And how is Google, if you think that's a trend, a positive trend, how is Google taking advantage of those new forms of ad targeting?

NIKESH ARORA: Thanks, Mark. This is Nikesh.

In terms of your first question in the area of App install, yes clearly it has become a larger market recently, with this whole mobility factor where everybody is trying to get more and more mobile.

We have solutions, we have always had solutions as part offer our AdMob product, as well as our AdSense products where advertisers can use those forms of advertising towards creating App installs. And we continue to work hard to see where else in our various portfolio of services we can introduce the idea of App install, So you'll hear more from us in that area in the future.

But I think you're right. This is an opportunity and we continue to work hard towards making this opportunity real, not just with our existing products but also looking at other ways that we can keep driving this.

In terms of your question around cookies and alternatives for cookies, I think it's fair to say that there's a lot of conversation around cookies, there's a lot of stuff going on in terms of how do we continue to evolve this area of technology and make sure that we give the users more control. And also make sure users have security in terms of what data get transferred for them online and includes transparency.

So our teams are working on this. There's some early concepts in our teams where they're trying to see how they can evolve this notion in all three parameters that I mentioned. But I think it's too early to talk about what those precise solutions are likely to be.

MARK MAY: Thanks.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thanks for your question. Jamie let's go to the next question please?

OPERATOR: We'll go next to Ben Schachter with Macquarie.

BEN SCHACHTER, ANALYST, MACQUARIE RESEARCH: A few questions on the Google Wallet initiative. One, could you just talk about generally what are the problems that that group is trying to solve? Two, can you just tell us a little bit more about the structure of Google Wallet, who runs the group, who do they report to?

And then when you're talking about the number of credit cards that you actually already have in that system, can you give us any help understanding the quantity there? Are you measuring in hundreds of millions, tens of millions?

And then separately, Nikesh, maybe you could just elaborate a little bit more on initiatives to improve Ad attribution and measurement, specifically measuring sort of the online to offline attribution?

Thanks.

NIKESH ARORA: Thank you very much for those questions.

I think let me start with Google Wallet. I think the best way to think about what Google Wallet is trying to achieve is we're constantly trying to reduce the friction from somebody's doing a search to trying to actually acquire something. Whether that is going from online to online, from online to mobile, from mobile to mobile, or even online to offline, like you referred to in your question at the end. So the hope of our team is to make sure we reduce the friction, and of course create higher degree of security and comfort, vis-a-vis the end-user so they get a better experience.

Now Google Wallet is actually a team that is run by our commerce team which works with Shridar who works with Larry. And I think the best way to think about it is as people go more and more mobile, we're noticing a lot more people are spending time buying Apps and digital content on their Mobile Devices and they end up signing for Google Wallet as part of their Google Play experience.

So we are seeing lots and lots of users use those services. I'll leave it to you to infer how many Android users there are and how many Google Play users there are and what proportion of them are buying goods and services from us. So that gives you a sense of Google Wallet. It's definitely a number that we're very happy with and it continues to grow.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thanks for your question again. Ben, you know, this is a complex question. You can always refer back to the IR team for more details on this stuff. Jamie, why don't we go to our next question, please?

OPERATOR: We'll go next to Justin Post with Merrill Lynch.

JUSTIN POST, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Great. A couple things.

We are seeing rest of world revenues accelerate. Does that have any benefit from product listing ads or some of the mobile changes you made to the platform? And maybe you could talk about how those are going. And then Sales and Marketing went up quite a bit in Q4. I was just wondering if that was related to Motorola, thank you.

PATRICK PICHETTE: So why don't I take the second one and then I'll let Nikesh talk about the PLA. Sales and Marketing in Q4 was actually just really tied to the holiday season. We had great momentum on the Nexus 5 and the Chromecast. And so at that time of year we decided when we have such winner products we would actually support them in addition to a number of other areas where we actually invest.

So very very pleased with the performance of both of those as well as Chrome books which have been, if you look in the feedback you get is number one, number two in so many markets. So very, very pleased of actually, kind of making that investment in these core products.

For the PLA, I'll turn it over to Nikesh.

NIKESH ARORA: Hi, Justin.

To break your question down in terms of,there are two or three parts to your question. I think in terms of the growth in the rest of the world, effectively the growth we're seeing in the rest of world is actually not core Search advertising business, and it's across-the-board. It's across our various products.

As I mentioned in my prepared remarks we've done a lot of work on enhanced campaigns in trying to drive solutions from a multi-screen perspective. So what you are really seeing is not a particular screen or particular format, it's actually something which is allowing advertisers to come in and say I'd like to acquire more customers, I'd like more people on my website.

I'd like more people in my store and effectively them spending money and us helping them optimize across multiple screens how that money should be effectively spent. And them measuring their ROIs and saying this is good, I need to spend more money in this space.

So it's not a particular change in our mobile platform or any other platform. It is actually really our move towards enhance campaign which is helping us in the strength of our core business.

Vis-a-vis product listing ads we've talked about this a few quarters ago that how we are moving from [tender] links in certain categories to more entry level results. And product listing ads is a prime example of how it's happening effectively.

We are seeing adoption as I've mentioned we've added eight more countries this quarter. So this is part of our continued evolution and it's adding value to both our end-users, shoppers, as well as to our retailers. So it's clearly giving us benefit, our users benefit and obviously more relevant results allowing merchants to reach specific audiences.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thanks for your question, Justin. Jamie we'll go to our next question please?

OPERATOR: Our next question come from Stephen Ju with Credit Suisse.

STEPHEN JU, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Hi, guys.

So I've always thought of Motorola as an asset for Google to push the agenda for both hardware and software innovation to the OEMs. So how does the sale to Lenovo affect your ability to do that? And also was your ownership of Motorola ever an impediment to having a closer working relationship with any of the other OEMs before?

Thanks.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Well the short answer is we believe that this is a great transaction where everybody wins. I think that Motorola will find in the mature handset terrific partner and will provide scale and continued really momentum on what is now done very well which is develop world class product.

In addition to that, Motorola let's never forget has really strengthened our Android ecosystem and done a terrific job on that. So I think both from a perspective of the hardware itself in the handset area as well as for the core Android ecosystem I think that it's a real win-win for everybody.

In addition to that as you know from the Nest acquisition and glass and wearables, we continue to innovate and we continue to be committed to hardware in areas that are kind of enterprising, promising, new frontiers. And that's where we're actually focusing on. So I think all-in all, quite a great story.

Thank you so much, Stephen for your question. Let's go to our next question Jamie.

OPERATOR: We'll go next to Eric Sheridan with UBS.

ERIC SHERIDAN, ANALYST, UBS: Yes thanks for taking the question.

I guess broader question for the long term around your eCommerce initiatives. Just understanding how you envision continuing to partner more deeply with offline retailers? How PLAs play into that?

And maybe an update on what you've seen early days from the Google shopping initiative in San Francisco and now it seems to have expanded into a second market. Thank you.

NIKESH ARORA: I think the best way to think about it is that is what is happening is, over time, people are looking -- when they look on the web, they are looking for more and more precise answers. Which was the genesis of why we believe that entry level search begins to make more and more sense, whether it is in travel, whether it is in hotels, whether it is in hotels, whether it is in product listings.

People are looking for specific answers. And as you get mobile, you want even more bite-sized answers so that people can get the information as quickly as they want. So that sort of is the Genesis of product listing ads.

If you take that to its logical conclusion, that is people declaring intent that they would like something and that gives you a sense and a signal that okay clearly if they're looking for something they are more than likely wanting to buy it at some point in time.

So we see our role as trying to enable the entire ecosystem across-the-board of retailers both online and offline to be able to provide those goods or services directly to the end-user as quickly as possible with the least amount of friction. And friction comes in their ability to find it. Friction comes in their ability once they've found it to buy it. That's why things like InstaBuy exist in Google Wallet where you can have instant purchasing capability.

And then of course then there's the motion of gratification, or once you bought it I want it as quickly as I can get it. So you can see that our product initiatives are sort of triangulated across all of these things whether it's PLAs, in terms of their ability to find it, whether it's payment capability to try and close the loop, or whether it's delivery experiments where we see how can we get it to you as soon as possible.

So it's more of an open system approach to be fair, where we can help the entire ecosystem and our various partners. And you can see that our teams are working really hard towards enabling this vision but it takes time and great execution.

ERIC SHERIDAN: Great thanks, Nikesh.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thank you, Eric for your question. Jamie let's go to our next question please?

OPERATOR: We'll go next to Gene Munster with Piper Jaffrey.

GENE MUNSTER, ANALYST, PIPER JAFFRAY & CO.: Good afternoon. You've talked in the past about enhanced campaigns as being the most significant change to Adwords since its inception. And can you give us a little bit of context to, it's been rolled out for six months now? Is it fully up and running? Are advertisers fully embraced? Or at what period do you think that we're going to hit its stride with enhanced campaigns? Thanks.

NIKESH ARORA: Hi, Gene. Yes of course.

Actually its been a year since we started talking about enhanced campaigns, and we're very happy with the progress. It's fully embraced, it's fully up and running across around the world. Our thousands and thousands of salespeople around the world are trained, our customers and advertising partners have understood that that's the way for them to go target audiences and users and really focus on ROI metrics.

As we talked about we will launch the notion of estimated total conversion so we can let people think about it in multi-screen way. Because more and more we're seeing that people do not distinguish the activity they conduct in one screen. So earlier it was said that people usually search on their desktop and on their mobile devices when they are mobile they do different things.

But we're noticing that across any screen, you get the sense of pretty much the same activity that happens. Which means that advertisers should be somewhat agnostic on where they are able to reach the user. They should want to reach the user wherever they are.

So our thesis has been proven right. Advertisers are embracing it, users are exhibiting those behavioral patterns. So it's provided honestly tremendous amounts of efficiency in our ability because we don't need specialists in various screens, various technologies to try and work with advertisers. We can have one team work with this product which our product teams have created which makes it very, very simple and people can look at the ROI they get from spending money with us or in the digital economy as opposed to having to break it down in silos that doesn't need to happen.

So its been very successful, we're very happy with it. I think it's in its full stride and the effects that you don't see is the effects we see internally in the amount of efficiency and clarity and our ability to work with advertisers and them being able to measure their ROI' effectively.

GENE MUNSTER: Do you think it could have kind of an increasing positive impact going forward or are we kind of seeing its full impact in the December quarter?

NIKESH ARORA: I think the way to think about it is that if you hadn't done something like this, our lives would have been extremely complex and you might have seen us decelerate because we would have gotten sort of tripped up in our own clothing.

And we wouldn't want to do that because we would have to explain why one screen works better than the other screen, how is the ROI from one compared to the other. And you create artificial differentiation or distinction which doesn't need to exist, because at the end it's about users, advertisers and publishers.

GENE MUNSTER: Excellent. Thank you.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thank you so much, Gene for your question. Jamie, let's go to our next question please?

OPERATOR: We'll go next to Ross Sandler with Deutsche Bank.

ROSS SANDLER, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Thanks, guys. Just a question on I guess product or strategy for mobile. You guys are working on assisting users in mobile, not just answering Search queries with hyperlinks as you did during the kind of PC browser era.

Yet most of the data suggests that mobile users are spending pretty much all their time thumbing around in Apps all day. So how do you envision Google improving the mobile experience? And how do you envision Google potentially controlling a purchase funnel if we stay in Apps all day like you controlled it in the PC era?

Thanks.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Let me jump in just at a very high level, Ross. I think that the fundamental tenant is rather than to speak about mobile and only mobile. It's really living with the user.

And once you think through living with the user supporting our users across all their day whether it be on a TV, whether it be on a mobile phone, whether it be on a desktop, whether it be with Google glass, wearables, that's really the aim that we're actually shooting for.

And if it happens that on mobile, they spent some of their time on Apps, right, that's just one portion of the puzzle. But when you're looking for the question, the answer and actually getting you to the real assist across your day, then you just what the device you on, what's your question or what should we assist you. I think is the real question to answer.

And I think that's a much broader and a much richer set of opportunities for us rather than just to be cornered into one hour. So I kind of defend the premise of your argument, because I think -- I mean our agenda is so much richer and so much more exciting for us. When you think about it in the way we just did. So that's the way to think about it.

Thanks for your question nonetheless. Let's go to our next question please, Jamie.

OPERATOR: We'll go next to Anthony DiClemente, with Nomura.

ANTHONY DICLEMENTE, ANALYST, NOMURA: Thank you, I have two. First on local advertising, I'm curious just about Google Maps, Google ways, monetization of local, are geo-targeting based products helping local advertisers to drive ROI? And what do you guys need to do to drive that business in terms of advertising realtime locally?

And then the second question maybe for Nikesh, you mentioned the NFL jokingly. I wonder with the growth of YouTube as a platform, when you look at the birth and growth of Chromecast, why is it that you wouldn't find professional content or sports content strategic or useful in terms of driving the next leg or era of growth and monetization for YouTube? Thanks very much.

NIKESH ARORA: Thank you for your question. Let me answer it two different parts of it.

First is in terms of your question around local monetization. So I think we are clearly experimenting with new ad formats in Google Maps. But I think there's a broader way of thinking about local. It's not just about App it's about location.

And as the world begins to attract across multiple screens, you begin to look at location in a whole different way because you have better understanding of where users are. And how you can use that as a filter to provide them more precise information and hopefully much more relevant advertising, which requires both ends of the spectrum.

It requires us to understand the users location, but also requires the advertisers to make sure they give us the location of where their services are best utilized. So, we need location extensions from advertisers, we need locations from users. And then we have to be able to marry them across not just Google Maps but all across pretty much every experience that we have whether it's Search, whether it's anything, whether it's YouTube. Whatever service did the end-users using we have to be able to localize it, because location is a great filter, and allows us to make things more relevant both from advertising and from an organic perspective.

In terms of YouTube, I think we're very happy with the growth that YouTube is having and has had, both from a user perspective, as well as content provider perspective as well as from monetization perspective. In terms of content providers, we talk to content providers large and small across the entire spectrum, because we want you to use a platform where creators of any size can build an audience. And they can build an audience of scale, fans can find the content they want.

It's hard to comment on a particular piece of content, because it starts the whole series of conversations. But, we would welcome any content on YouTube as long as people felt that it would add value to the end-users and as long as there was a right economic model associated with it.

ANTHONY DICLEMENTE: Okay, thanks.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thank you for your question, great question again. Jamie, let's go to our next question please?

OPERATOR: We'll go next to Mark Mahaney with RBC Capital markets.

KEVIN POTTERTON, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Hi this is Kevin on for Mark. Just wondering are you guys seeing Nielsen OCR measurement pushing more brand advertisers towards YouTube? Thanks.

NIKESH ARORA: Thanks Mark, sorry this is Kevin, sorry. Thanks, Kevin.

As I mentioned earlier, we had a long, spirited answer around measurement. We are seeing measurement as sort of table stakes for brand advertisers because they want to understand what is the return of their brand spend.

Now it's easier in performance advertising because you can see the number of clicks you get on your website or you can measure the number of people who walk into your store. On brand it's a different metric, so you want to actually try and understand how many people were you able to reach of a certain age, certain gender.

And that's what Nielsen OCR allows you to do. It allows you to compare it across various brand media. So it sort of acts as table stakes. And as I said earlier, it is the early set of metrics that are basic entry metrics into the space, but we hope that this market is going to evolve from a measurement perspective over the coming quarters, coming years.

Where we can have more sophisticated metrics and metrics that actually allow you to see the impact of this advertising on our brand.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thanks, let's go to the next question please, Jamie.

OPERATOR: We'll go next to Richard Kramer with Arete Research.

RICHARD KRAMER, ANALYST, ARETE RESEARCH: Thanks very much.

Patrick you've talked before about projects like Google Fiber needing to make returns and you see acquisitions like Nest getting replaced by disposals like Motorola. And you've now passed the $50 billion mark in terms of net cash. So, do you have any plans this year to address this sort of mounting cash pile and as a part of the Google business that needs to generate returns like the other businesses?

And then for Nikesh, you've surely seen the various social network and messaging peers absorb some substantial volumes of advertising spend. How does that make you think about the evolution of Google+ and YouTube and some of the other social platforms you have as a complement to the Search-based business? Thanks.

PATRICK PICHETTE: So I'll jump on the first one.

As I've reiterated many times before and we were with our Board yesterday at the Audit Committee reviewing this issue and so it clearly the cash position of Google is seen as a strategic asset. It is an important asset to us, both in terms of offensive and defensive, given the world in which we live in.

And in that context, its been reviewed regularly and we make sure that actually we get the best return for our investors on that asset, as well. So we have a real strategy for that as well, so for now, we have nothing else to announce on it. But just to give comfort to our investors that we do take this issue seriously, and it is reviewed on a regular basis by both ourselves, Management but also raised to the Board for the right answer.

So thanks for the question, thanks for asking it. It's always there. I'll turn it over to Nikesh for the second part of the question.

NIKESH ARORA: Thanks, Patrick. Thanks, Richard.

Let's see. Yes, I guess to your point, yes there are other people who are beginning to absorb some amounts of digital ad spend. I think the $15.7 billion for this quarter was a majority of it being advertising, I still think we have substantial advertising spend coming into us.

But again from a longer term perspective I think every piece of advertising becomes digital, so we're still at single, low double digit numbers in terms of how much ad spend is digital versus non-digital. So we need more people in the digital space getting more and more advertising to shift from what we call traditional old media.

I think over time television becomes digital, and I think every piece of advertising becomes digital because this provides so much efficiency from a measurement perspective, and a targeting perspective, because it will take out a lot of the waste out of the system.

So with that in mind, I think we're still in the very early days of how much advertising is going to move over to digital media, and I think you're right to identify that places like Google+, places like YouTube are still very, very sort of in their infancy in the amount of advertising they can support vis-a-vis the amount of usage we're getting.

So we continue to work hard. We have to strike the right balance between users, services end user service and the amount of advertising we are present to them because this continues to be sort of evolving space. And what you don't want to do is you don't want to overwhelm users with tremendous amounts of advertising because that maybe good in the short-term but creates a bad experience with users in the long term.

So you will notice that many of our products still do not have tremendous amounts of advertising because we still believe those products are evolving and the right form of advertising hasn't been invented for those particular areas.

So we remain hopeful in the long term for finding more and more ways of enabling advertising for users. And for sure perhaps some of the products may not lend themselves to advertising and users prefer to pay for an ad-less product as it relates to certain areas like applications or digital content, et cetera.

So those models also exist out there so I think there's tremendous amounts of scope in the future. And I think you've rightly identified some of the areas where we should be concentrating.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thanks for your question. Let's go to our next question please?

OPERATOR: We'll take our next question from Heather Bellini with Goldman Sachs.

HEATHER BELLINI, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Great, thank you. I was just wondering if could you share with us your strategy to try and reduce fragmentation of Android? And is the sale of Motorola a potential catalyst for this to start to happen and ultimately, do you think this even matters over the long term? Thank you.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Well, I mean again, Heather, certainly, the transaction with Motorola continues to support the ecosystem. So in that sense, right, I think that we have clear objectives of support, we've always had clear objective to support all of our partners. And after this transaction, it's very clear that we'll continue to be kind of the impartial supporter of the entire ecosystem.

As it relates to the detail of fragmentation we've taken a number of steps. We talked a lot about this already in the past, there's a number of steps taken to make sure that in fact there isn't fragmentation. And I just encourage you to circle back to both what's written, as well as circle back to the IR team for more of the details. But we've done a lot of progress already on this over the last 18 months and a lot more to come.

So thanks for your question. We have time for one more, so why don't we jump Jamie to the last question of the afternoon.

OPERATOR: We'll take our last question from Colin Sebastian with Robert W. Baird.

COLIN SEBASTIAN, ANALYST, ROBERT W. BAIRD & CO.: Great thanks, just a question on Enterprise. Obviously from a SaaS perspective you already have a very good business, but in terms of the infrastructure and platform services, can you talk about how you're approaching the go to market? Whether it's based on pricing since there are low margin competitors already in the market, or is this more of a broader platform approach to link the services together? Thank you.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Nikesh?

NIKESH ARORA: Thank you, Collin for your question. I'm still trying to parse your question. Look, I think we've done really well from an Enterprise perspective, we have steadily growing revenues on our traditional Google Apps business.

Outside of that on the platform service, the Google compute engine Google Apps engine and stuff we continue to make progress. I think we have more room to work harder over there. We understand there are other players out there, but again that is such an early, early stage in that market.

We think over the long term, almost every business out there existing and new has to be on a cloud platform, has to be on a large scale industrial strengthen infrastructure platform, and there's still few players out there and lots and lots of room.

So I'm not sure if price is the current factor on which people need to make a decision. People make a decision based on robustness, based on security, based on availability, based on the breadth offer services we can offer in that platform. And I just think it's early days.

So, we should be working on all those things and you should be hearing more from us in the future.

COLIN SEBASTIAN: Thank you.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thanks for that. So in closing, a couple points, one is welcome to 2014, everyone. Having closed out 2013 we're totally excited by this coming year.

And just as Nikesh has said at the very beginning, thank you for people in the financial community for your support, as well as to our Googlers, partners.

I mean the amazing people that make our job, Nikesh and my job so easy to be on this call because offer their super star performances across all of our products and our markets,

So again, congratulations to the Googlers for a great 2013.

And with that, Jamie, I'll let you close the call.

OPERATOR: Thank you, sir. That does conclude today's conference. We do thank everyone for your participation. Have a great day.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
goog : Google Inc.
   IN
iappsp : Cloud Computing | i8394 : Computer Services | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | i8395464 : Internet Search Engines | iint : Internet/Online | itech : Technology
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c32 : Advertising | c15 : Performance | c31 : Marketing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | uk : United Kingdom | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020140201ea1u002xl
  


 HD
 Q3  2013 Google Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
10,558 words
   PD
17 October 2013
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©013 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day, everyone, and welcome to the Google Inc. third-quarter 2013 earnings conference call. Today's conference is being recorded. At this time, I'd like to turn the call over to Ms. Jane Penner, Director, Investor Relations.

   TD
JANE PENNER, DIRECTOR, IR, GOOGLE INC: Good afternoon, everyone, and welcome to today's third-quarter 2013 earnings conference call. With us are Larry Page, Chief Executive Officer; Patrick Pichette, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Nikesh Arora, Senior Vice President and Chief Business Officer. Also, as you know, we distributed our earnings release through our Investor Relations website located at investor.google.com so please refer to our IR website for our earnings releases, as well as supplementary slides that accompany the call. You can also visit our Google+ Investor Relations page with the latest Company news and updates. Please check it out. This call is also being webcast from investor.google.com. A replay of the call will be available on our website later today.

Now, let me quickly cover the Safe Harbor. Some of the statements that we make today may be considered forward-looking, including statements regarding Google's future investments, our long-term growth and innovation, the expected performance of our businesses, and our expected level of capital expenditures. These statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially. Please note that these forward-looking statements reflect our opinions only of the date of the presentation, and we undertake no obligation to revise or publicly release the results of any revisions to these forward-looking statements in light of new information or future events. Please refer to our SEC filings for a more detailed description of the risk factors that may affect our results.

Please note that certain financial measures that we use on the call, such as operating income and operating margin, are expressed on a non-GAAP basis and have been adjusted to exclude charges related to stock-based compensation and restructuring. We have also adjusted our net cash provided by operating activities to remove capital expenditures, which we refer to as free cash flow. Our GAAP results and reconciliations of non-GAAP to GAAP measures can be found in our earnings press release. With that, I'll turn the call over to Larry.

LARRY PAGE, CEO, GOOGLE INC: Thank you. Hi, everyone. Thanks for joining us today. Google had another strong quarter with $14.9 billion in revenue and great product progress. We are closing in on our goal of a beautiful, simple, and intuitive experience, regardless of your device. Research has shown that people tend to overestimate the impact of technology in the short term, yet underestimate the scale of change longer term. For years, everyone talked about the multi-screen world. Now, it's arrived, but on a scale few imagined. People increasingly have more than one device, and screens are proliferating in the home as well as wearable screens like watches and Google Glass. When Android was still a skunkworks project, I used to feel kind of guilty visiting the Team. We were a search Company, and building a new operating system wasn't an obvious move to most people. Turns out, that was a lot of misplaced guilt. Over 1 billion Android devices have now been activated worldwide, and 1.5 million devices are lit up every day.

I'm also tremendously excited about Chromebooks, which are growing fast and defying the more general decline in laptops. Just like the Chrome browser, updates are seamless and frequent, improving security and usability. This is a great example of technology doing the hard work so you can get on with the stuff that matters. Two weeks ago, we launched the new HP Chromebook 11. It's beautifully designed and lightweight at just over two pounds, and at $279, highly affordable. Best of all, it has a high-power micro USB charger that can also charge your Android phone. Recharging is still too much of a sweat, and there's tremendous potential to innovate, so it's great to see progress here.

This quarter, we also launched Moto X, first phone Motorola has developed and produced since Google acquired the Company. Super fast and clean, and the voice features are great. While it's still early days, Dennis and the Team have already transformed Motorola's product quality. Now they're working to build out marketing and distribution.

As screens multiply, to be able to navigate across them seamlessly becomes more and more important. That's why I love Chromecast, which we launched in July, and it immediately became a best seller. Put it on your phone, tablet, or laptop, and start playing some music from YouTube or a show from Google Play or Netflix. With one click, the content is there on the biggest screen in your home, your TV, all for just $35. And unlike some other streaming devices, you can continue to e-mail, search, and share as the Chromecast handles the hard work without draining your device battery, genuine multitasking in a multi-screen world.

We've also been making great progress across devices with YouTube. Almost 40% of YouTube's traffic now comes from mobile, up from 6% two years ago, and in August, we updated our YouTube Apps for Android and IOS. You can now leave a video playing at the bottom of your screen while you explore other content. Our execution in velocity and search in Maps is getting better and better, and from a very high base. A new Maps App for IOS and Android shipped in July, but is specifically built for downloads to make the most of these larger screens. And in September, we rebuilt our entire mobile search experience with a simple card interface that is easy to read and a design that is optimized for touch.

Our momentum on Voice Search is tremendous. We added four new languages this quarter, making it available in over 78 languages and accents. We've also expanded the quick answers we can provide just for you. Ask Google for your flight details, and they'll appear instantly in your search results, no digging around in your e-mail required. And the search across Google+ photos is extraordinary. Search for sunsets, and all the pictures you've ever taken of sunsets appear instantly. If you haven't tried it, prepare to be amazed.

About two years ago, when I became CEO again, my goal was to ensure that Google maintains the passion and soul of a start up as we grow. That's why I've worked so hard to increase the velocity and the execution, so we create products people love to use and iterate fast to ensure they get better and better, because great is just never good enough. When you look across the Company, it's amazing how all the Teams are executing. For example, we rolled out Enhanced Campaigns in AdWords, across all devices, for all our advertisers, in less than a year. Of course, none of this would happen without great people, and we are so lucky that we have them. I'd like to thank all of the Googlers and Motorolans who make everything possible. Keep up that velocity and execution.

Before I hand over to Patrick, I wanted to let you know that going forward, I won't be joining every earnings call. Patrick and Nikesh do a great job covering our business each quarter, and they will continue to do that great work. I know you would all love to have me on, but you're also depending on me to ruthlessly prioritize my time for the benefit of the business, and I'm very confident you're in good hands with Patrick and Nikesh. So now, over to Patrick.

PATRICK PICHETTE, SVP & CFO, GOOGLE INC: Thank you, Larry. Good afternoon, everyone, and thank you for joining us again. Without further ado, why don't we just dive into the details of Google's financial performance in Q3? So here we go. Our gross consolidated revenue was just shy of $15 billion at $14.9 billion. The overall business was up 6% quarter over quarter and 12% year over year. Our Google segment gross revenue grew a healthy 19% year over year to $13.8 billion, and was up 5% quarter over quarter. Without currency fluctuations, Google segment revenue would have actually grown 21% year over year, and the currency impact on sequential growth was actually immaterial in our case this quarter.

Google Sites revenue was up 22% year-over-year to $9.4 billion, and was up 6% quarter over quarter, driven by the strength in our core search advertising business. The advertising policy decisions that we implemented earlier this year to ensure good user experience continued to negatively impact Google's network revenue in the short term, and therefore, our network revenue was, in fact, flat year over year to $3.1 billion, and was down 1% quarter-over-quarter. Despite the short-term pressures, we continue to believe that this is clearly the right answer for our users and shareholders in the long term. And finally, to finish Google's segment on a positive note, Google's other revenue grew 85% year-over-year to $1.2 billion, and was up 18% quarter-over-quarter. Digital sales of apps and content in our Play store drove year-over-year and quarter-over-quarter growth in this line.

Turning to Motorola segment, our gross revenue there was $1.2 billion. As Larry mentioned, while it's still the early days, Dennis and the Team have already transformed Motorola's product quality, and they're working now at building marketing and distribution. By the way, some of you may have noticed that our total consolidated revenue does not exactly equal the sum of our segment revenues this quarter. This is driven by new transactions in our Motorola segment resulting in inter-segment and certain deferred revenues that are eliminated in our consolidated results.

Coming back to our Google segment, our global aggregate paid click growth was strong this quarter, up 26% year over year, 8% quarter over quarter. Our aggregate cost per click was down 8% year over year and down 4% quarter over quarter. And we should note that the currency fluctuations had a real minimal impact on Q3 cost per click. Once again, I wish to remind everyone that our monetization metrics continue to be impacted by a whole set of factors discussed on previous calls. They include geographic mix, channel mix, property mix, as well as product and policy changes.

Turning to geographic performance of our Google segment, we continue to see steady performance in the US and the UK, and strong performance in the rest of the world. In our earnings slides which you can find on our Investor Relations website, you'll see that we've broken down our revenue by US, UK, and rest of world to show the impact of FX and the benefits from our hedging programs, so please refer to those slides for the exact calculation. The US revenue was up 13% year-over-year to $6.1 billion, and it's worth noting that network revenue that I mentioned a bit earlier, which continues to be impacted by ongoing policy decisions, skews toward the US. The UK was up 14% year-over-year to $1.4 billion, which includes a small $17-million benefit from our hedging program. In fixed FX, the UK grew 15% year over year, and our non-US revenue, excluding the UK, accounted for 46% of total revenue, or $6.3 billion. This was up 28% year-over-year, which includes a $5-million benefit from our hedging program, and in fixed FX terms, our rest of world actually grew 32% year-over-year.

Coming back to an aggregate level for a total consolidated business, our non-GAAP other cost of revenue was $3.3 billion in Q3, excluding SBC and Motorola restructuring. Our non-GAAP operating expenses totaled $4.3 billion, again, excluding SBC and Motorola restructuring, for a non-GAAP operating profit was $4.3 billion in Q3, resulting in non-GAAP operating margin for the consolidated business of 29%.

For Google segment, our traffic acquisition costs were $3 billion, or 24% of total advertising revenue. Our other cost of revenue was $2.3 billion, excluding $133 million of SBC. Google segment operating expenses were $3.9 billion, also excluding SBC of $723 million. Depreciation and amortization expense on our property, plant, and equipment for the Google segment was $630 million this quarter, and our Google segment operating profit as a result was strong $4.6 billion in Q3, resulting in Google segment operating margin of 34%. At Motorola, our total segment operating expenses, including cost of revenue, were $1.4 billion. That excludes $30 million of stock-based compensation and $12 million of Motorola restructuring charges. Please keep in mind that intangible amortization expense attributed to Google segment and Motorola are, in fact, included in these segment measures. Of the $281 million in consolidated intangible amortization expense in the quarter, $153 million was the result of the acquisition of Motorola, of which $116 million was allocated to Google segment and $37 million allocated to the Motorola segment. And as a result, the operating loss at Motorola segment was $248 million in Q3, and operating margins for that segment were negative 21%.

Headcount for the consolidated business was roughly 1,600 people, up in Q3. The Google segment added just about 2,000 people during the quarter, and in total, the consolidated Company ended the quarter with approximately 46,000 full time employees. Our effective tax rate was 15% in Q3. Our tax rate this quarter was impacted by the continued mix shift of earnings between our domestic and international subsidiaries.

Let me now turn to cash management. Our other income and expense was $24 million for this quarter. The impact of FAS 133 expense from our hedging program and realized losses mostly offset interest income in this quarter. And as you know, we often get questions on quarter-to-quarter volatility of our hedging costs, so to help everyone understand this better, we put together a video tutorial on the topic. You can find the new video on our Investor Relations website. I hope you find it helpful, and let us know what you think. For more detail on OI&E, please again refer to the slides that accompany this call on our IR website.

We continue to be happy with our strong operating cash flow at $5.1 billion. CapEx for the quarter was $2.3 billion. This quarter, the majority of our CapEx was spent on production equipment, data center construction, and real estate purchases. As I mentioned last quarter during my remarks, we continue to invest for the long term, and our infrastructure continues to be a key strategic area of investment for us. Consequence, our free cash flow was $2.8 billion, very strong again.

So there you have it. Strong results and an optimism that provides us the confidence to fund strategic growth fully in the opportunities areas including mobile business, Android, Chrome, YouTube, Enterprise just to name a few. With that, I'll hand it off to Nikesh, who will cover more details of our business performance in the quarter, and after these remarks we'll open up the phone lines for questions. Here you go, Nikesh.

NIKESH ARORA, SVP & CHIEF BUSINESS OFFICER, GOOGLE INC: Thank you, Patrick. As Patrick mentioned, our business had a strong quarter with $13.8 billion in Google segment gross revenue. Overall performance was strong in the retail sector. We had good growth in Japan, South Korea, and Australia. There are three key areas I want to talk about today that are big growth drivers for us and our partners. First, our continued efforts to make advertising seamless, effective, and measurable across multiple screens. Second, our progress in bringing brand advertisers online with a special emphasis on our efforts around YouTube. And third, our early investments in commerce and shopping to help users, retailers, and merchants. And lastly, a few words about new areas like digital content, hardware, and enterprise.

On seamless advertising, it's been a few months since our advertisers moved over to Enhanced Campaigns and AdWords. Clients are telling us they like the new system. Many are still adjusting their campaigns and keywords and developing their multi-screen bidding strategies. For example, we're seeing advertisers bidding more frequently in mobile keywords because enhanced campaigns makes it so much easier to do so. They are discovering how they can use the native capabilities of mobile in their ads, like location and click to call. Example is Discover, who has just increased their mobile spend and used it to promote their "it" Card.

Talking about mobile, we've also launched cross-device measurement tools and analytics. We have three observations here. First, mobile is driving higher online conversion. American Apparel found that mobile ads were actually driving 16% more conversions than they had initially thought, and as a result, they are now investing more to drive more sales. Second, mobile drives more phone calls. On average, there are more than 40 million calls driven by Google ads every month. This is twice as much as it was a year ago. Third, mobile drives in-store traffic.

Moving over to brand and YouTube. We seen there are CPG and entertainment clients have moved online at greater speed with our efforts around brand. Spend by our CPG clients and displaying YouTube has grown over 75% over the past two years. For example, the global YouTube campaign for Dove's Camera Shy ran in more than 20 countries and delivered over 62 million views for Unilever. We're also partnering very closely with agencies who really like integrating our technology, insights, and media with their creativity and client relationships. For agencies, marketers and Googlers, it's a huge win-win-win. All of the top-10 global agencies now use a DoubleClick product.

On the other side, YouTube continues to do well. Video ads, which include TrueView, now form a significant part of our YouTube and brand advertising, and they're growing north of 75% year-over-year. We've found that you tube is our brand torchbearer. It offers brands valuable, engaged audiences, perfect reach, and compelling content. Smart brands are really loving their engagement with YouTube.

Moving on to commerce and shopping. As Google search moves to provide people with answers and entities, not just links, we're making good progress helping people take commercial actions, too, like buying products. We're seeing great traction on product listing ads, both in desktop and mobile. As part of this move to a seamless purchasing experience, we're also helping retailers offer better payment solutions to their customers, particularly on mobile, where it's traditionally been difficult. Google Wallet Instant Buy helps merchants here. After implementing Instant Buy, Rue La La saw that from May to August, users of Google Wallet on their Android App had a purchase conversion rate that was four times higher than other shoppers.

Finally, I want to talk about an area which we are putting more emphasis on, which is our investment in emerging non-ads businesses. As we mentioned last quarter, we continue to see acceleration in new businesses, such as hardware, digital content, and enterprise. As I mentioned, Chromecast and Chromebooks are enjoying great success. Chromebooks are now available in over 8,000 locations around the world and are being used in more than 20% of school districts in the United States. We are also rolling out Unified Google Experience in more than 750 Best Buy stores to showcase Chromebooks, Chromecast, and the newest Nexus devices under our one Google branded design.

On digital apps and content, we continue to work hard to rollout Google Play in more markets around the world and add content to it. For instance, this quarter, to help students go back-to-school, we added a comprehensive catalog of textbooks to Google Play Books for rent to purchase. We brought on content partners like HBO and DC Entertainment. This quarter, we brought Play Music to 8 and Play Books to 18 new countries. So for example, now users in Russia can enjoy music, and users in Indonesia can enjoy books. There's tremendous momentum here, and we look forward to making progress in this area.

Another strong area of recurring and growing revenue is our Enterprise Software business, making available the best of Google for work. Some great new clients this quarter include Whirlpool, which is now using Google Apps to help 30,000 employees collaborate and innovate more quickly. In education, Apps for Education is being used by 30 million students, faculty, and staff worldwide. Beyond Apps, Amtrak uses Google Maps to let people see all of the trains in the US in real time, and we're continuing to invest in the Google Cloud Platform, which has over 300,000 customers, including Sanmina, a Fortune 500 Company, using Cloud Platforms to build internal applications to improve efficiency across their office globally.

Lastly, let me call out the efforts of our Marketing Team that continues to rollout the Google welcome mat to the world. They put on our third annual Google Science Fair honoring 15 global finalists from the ages of 13 to 18 from around the world. They hosted 400 partners and customers who are at our annual Zeitgeist event, More interestingly, to introduce the newest version of Android, called KitKat, we built a partnership with Nestle to get more than 50 million special Android KitKat chocolate bars on store shelves around the world. And give I have to give a shout out to the wonderful ad for our Nexus devices featuring the great sport of cricket that our Marketing Team is running in Australia. That's a bit of a personal favorite sport. With that, let me hand it over to Patrick. Thank you again to all of the Googlers for their hard work in getting us here.

PATRICK PICHETTE: So there you have it, folks. Why don't we have Jamie turn on the lines, and then we'll take your questions. So Jamie, over to you.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: Thank you, sir.

(Operator Instructions)

We'll take our first question from Mark Mahaney with RBC Capital Markets.

MARK MAHANEY, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Two questions, please. Could you talk about how long you think it will take for advertisers to move over to fully embrace the multi-screen advertising world which Enhanced Campaign should enable or facilitate? And secondly the skunkworks question, voice recognition technology at the Company I think is something you've been working on for years. I think it's what enables wearable devices in the future. Can you talk about how far along you are in developing the technology to be where you want it to be? Thank you.

LARRY PAGE: Yes, thanks, Mark, for the questions. I think the first part of your question, I'll send to Nikesh in a minute, and I'll take the voice recognition question. I think we've made tremendous progress on voice recognition here even in a period of months, probably last couple months or six months. The accuracy has gone up quite a bit. If you haven't tried it, I really recommend you try it out. It's super fast. On the Moto X, you can say, okay, Google, now. Even if your phone is turned off, it will turn on and answer your question. So I think we're super excited about that, and I think we made tremendous strides, and we'll continue to improve accuracy a bit and to make the products better. But I think they are already super useful, and we have a lot of usage coming from voice. So Nikesh, on the Enhanced Campaigns?

NIKESH ARORA: Hi, Mark. As you know, on the topic of Enhanced Campaigns, the challenge we had as we moved into a multi-screen world was everybody was producing solutions where we had to basically run campaigns on different devices in a different way because it's just how evolution had happened from desktop to mobile to video ads, etc. And effectively, what our Team working with Susan and Sridhar's Team have been able to do is provide one single interface and one single mechanism to be able to manage our campaigns across multiple devices. Now, that's a good thing because it improves process. It lets them see the ROI across various devices with the analytics tools that we've come up with. But also, there's a lot of work that needs to happen on the advertiser side because they have to develop beautiful experiences for their customers on mobile devices as well as other screens. So I think it's a process where we're all going through this together. Advertisers love this new mechanism. They are adjusting their keywords, and they are bidding models based on all this new effort. And we're seeing great progress in terms of people already advertising with us, but not only that, we're also working with all of our advertisers to make sure they have great experiences on their other screens and other devices so that they can truly leverage this. But I think this is definitely the first set of steps we've taken towards the future of multi-screen devices and multi-screen advertising, but we think this is the way things are going to keep evolving.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Jamie, why don't we go to our next call?

OPERATOR: We'll take our next question from Ben Schachter with Macquarie.

BEN SCHACHTER, ANALYST, MACQUARIE RESEARCH: Larry, can you discuss Google's overall eCommerce strategy, how the knowledge graphs structure data plays into it, and generally, how Google can improve the users' eCommerce experience. And then Nikesh, you touched briefly on the brand efforts, and I was looking at some data recently that shows that over the past 15 years, virtually all of the gains for online advertising has come at the expense of print and radio, and none of it has come from television budgets. What specifically is happening now that makes you think it's more likely for those television dollars to finally begin to come online, and to Google in particular? And then just a quick housekeeping one for Patrick. Can you just give us a bit more detail on how the accounting works for the inter-segment transactions and how it impacts the consolidated model? Thanks.

LARRY PAGE: Wow that's like a three-way question. I'll work hard on that. So I think on the eCommerce side, I think Google has been used for eCommerce for forever, and we're real excited about doing a better job of that. I think we want to remove friction when people are buying online or in the real world. We know people often click on an ad in a mobile device, and they may make their purchase on the laptop, or they might, in fact, buy it in the store, and we need to really get the conversion data there to the advertiser. So we've done work across all those things, across multi-screens, multi-devices from online, top line. We recently launched cross-device measurement in AdWords, and we're also just trying to make it easier for people to buy things in general. We've also rolled out some same-day shipping and local inventory in search, and like I said, we're just looking to reduce friction, and we're very excited about that.

NIKESH ARORA: Yes, Hi, Ben. If you look at the last 15 years of history like you talk about, a lot of the gains of online advertising have actually come at the expense of what we would call performance advertising. Any time you wanted to interact with users, get people to come into your store, get people to buy your product, get people to click on your website, all those gains have happened in performance, which has great. But what's beginning to happen is as the watch time on various online video sites continues to grow, as more and more on line video begins to be available in a non-linear fashion on your television screens, our recent, as Larry talked about Chromecast, that stuff, a bunch of the gaming devices, a bunch of other TV solutions, you're beginning to see a lot more watch time being expanded either on your desktop or on your multi-screen devices or even on your television. As that begins to happen, that advertising is more addressable, more directly attributable, and provides more measurement capabilities, so we believe that that's definitely a more superior opportunity for advertisers to be able to [end track] their (inaudible) customers and actually know who's at the other end. So we think that trend is definitely in the right direction, and we're gearing up for it.

PATRICK PICHETTE: So why don't I take the last question, which was the housekeeping item. Actually, this is pretty straightforward change, Ben. So in Q3, our Motorola and Google segments purchased and sold services to each other, and these transactions are reflected in our Google and Motorola segment revenues. The main thing analysts need to realize as they update their models this time is that the total consolidated revenue will no longer necessarily, like in the quarters where there is transactions between the two, equal the sum of the Google and Motorola segment revenues. So analysts who currently sum up our segment revenues and profits that derive consolidated estimates just need to model an elimination line for the inter-segment revenue profit in order to get their consolidated estimates. So that's as simple as that. Thanks for the questions. So Jamie, why don't we go -- thanks, Ben -- to our next caller.

OPERATOR: We'll go next to Carlos Kirjner with Sanford Bernstein.

CARLOS KIRJNER, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & CO.: Thank you. Larry, I hope that when you come up with voice recognition, it can deal with funny accents. Anyway, the perception by people outside the Company is that Google spends a material amount of long-term R&D that will not generate revenue in the next two years or so. Larry, can you help us understand how you think about funding these projects, and how much do they correspond versus your total R&D budget? And secondly, Patrick, you said in the past that CapEx is lumpy and we should expect fluctuations, but now we have had three quarters of what looks like high CapEx versus recent past. Are the last few quarters the new normal? Thank you.

LARRY PAGE: Yes, thanks, Carlos. I think we are definitely working on accents, so I appreciate that. I think that on the long-term R&D question, we don't recall the sudden detail, but I would say that my struggle in general is to get people to spend money on long-term R&D. In most companies, I think, even companies that significant R&D budgets, if you look at that, maybe 99% of it ends up being really incremental, which is relatively small improvements to your existing businesses, and maybe 1% of that ends up being true long-term things, like Android was when it got started. And so I think -- I kind of view my job as the opposite thing, is to get people to spend on the long-term R&D. I do think people have a perception that that's material. I don't think that -- that's not been my experience, is that it's very hard to actually spend money on long-term things in any kind of meaningful way. And even the investments we've announced, things like Calico, while they're in absolute dollar numbers, probably significant amounts, they're not significant for Google, and I think you should actually be asking to make more significant investments. I wish I knew how to do that, but I think it's actually very difficult to spend meaningful amounts of money relative to Google's scale on things that are speculative.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thank you, Larry. Carlo, on the issue of CapEx, just to reiterate, the fact that the majority of the CapEx this quarter was spent on production equipment, so machines, data center construction, looking ahead and building the capacity ahead of our needs to get the flexibility, and real estate purchases, so we had a number of really good opportunistic purchases in the portfolio we were targeting, and they came online this quarter, so pretty pleased with that. I think that overall, investors should see this as a very positive sign and a positive signal. And as I mentioned last quarter during my remarks, we continue to invest, really, for the long term -- just the conversation we were having with Larry on the topic of R&D -- and our infrastructure continues to be a key strategic area for investment for us. It's really important that when we see signals of -- or opportunities that where we need capacity, the worst thing for us would be to actually not have it in terms of machines and data center capacity, so the strategic value of having it for flexibility for our long-term positions are really important. That's what you see reflected in our investments right now. So thank you for your question, Carlo.

CARLOS KIRJNER: Thank you.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Jamie let's go to our next call please?

OPERATOR: We'll go next to Ross Sandler with Deutsche Bank.

ROSS SANDLER, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Thanks. Larry, just to follow-up on Ben's question earlier, it seems like you guys have all the pieces in place with Android, with Maps, with Google Now, Wallet, credit card information in the Play store, to kind of vertically integrate the experience from research search to purchase in the local and transactional areas, kind of the closing of the loop if you will, so can you just elaborate on the overall strategy? And how does the recent cross-screen conversion estimates in Enhance play into that? Thanks.

LARRY PAGE: Well thanks, Ross. We have positions available if you want to help us out. I think we certainly agree with that. I think that's a pretty good description. We are working on many different pieces of your commercial experiences, and I think in general, right now, that experience for users is not that seamless. There's lots of different pieces of technology and processes in order to make commerce happen and so on, so I think that's something we are absolutely looking at improving, about closing the loop and so on. I think your question actually is a pretty good summary. I don't know that I can add much more.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thank you for your question then. Jamie let's go to the next caller please.

OPERATOR: We'll go next to Dan Salmon with BMO Capital Markets.

DAN SALMON, ANALYST, BMO CAPITAL MARKETS: Good afternoon guys. My question was for Larry. Since you've came back into the CEO's role, one of the things we've noticed with Google is that your own advertising spending has moved up, and once upon a time Google was a Company that didn't need to advertise. And obviously, you're in a lot more businesses these days from where you started, but maybe just philosophically how you view that for Google long term as you do launch into more secondary products other than search. And then just one quick follow-up, with the Canadian government announcing this week that they will look to pursue unbundling of TV subscriptions, would you ever consider taking Google Fiber to a market outside of the US?

LARRY PAGE: Yes, Dan, thanks for the questions. I think we sell a lot of advertising, and we do a modest amount of advertising. I think we find that pretty useful, and we've gotten better at doing it. I think that it's good for our business, and it's good for us to understand the advertising perspective from a advertiser's point of view given that's business for us. I might let Nikesh elaborate a little bit on that. And Fiber, I think it's really just early days. We're just getting going on that.

NIKESH ARORA: To follow-up on the marketing question, we still encourage our product teams to go out there and get their products to be used by users [the better sets of products] because we believe that's all the marketing that they can have. But as their products get more and more popular, there are many parts of the world we want to make sure there's awareness for those products and people understand the capabilities and features are. That's the only time we bring in marketing to kick in. And the other area we do a lot of marketing in is in trying to make sure our advertisers understand the advertising opportunity so they can actually come spend money with us. So that's roughly how we think about marketing, but the primary focus is definitely on making sure we create great products that users use and the better products stand to get popular on their own merits.

LARRY PAGE: That's very correct. Let's go to the next question.

OPERATOR: We'll go next to Gene Munster with Piper Jaffrey.

GENE MUNSTER, ANALYST, PIPER JAFFRAY & CO.: Question for Larry in terms of you talked about R&D spending and just the amount that you're going to be gauging that. Can you talk specifically about self-driving cars? I realize it's way down the road, but how real is this as a business? And then separately, in terms of CPCs, how should we see Enhanced Campaigns impacting CPC over the next few quarters? Thanks.

LARRY PAGE: Okay, good questions from Gene. Thank you. So I think on the self-driving cars specifically, for any big innovation, I'd say your overestimate short term and underestimate long term, and that's probably a good summary for self-driving cars. I think we've made tremendous progress, and we've driven large amounts of miles. We've changed the business from being something that wasn't going to happen at all to something that now is somewhat inevitable and people's feelings about it, which I think is tremendous progress. That said, it's still pretty early days from the product. I don't know exactly what we've been saying, but it's still a ways from being a commercial product. Probably overestimate that in the short term, like I said, and underestimate that in the long term. What was the second part of the question?

PATRICK PICHETTE: Why don't I jump in for a second on CPCs? Listen, we don't -- because you asked the question about what do we expect quarter over the coming quarters. We don't really manage for quarterly CPC trends. We actually focus on the user and the advertiser ROI. So in general, we attribute CPC trends to a combination of those five factors I talked about, FX, the three mix effects of mobile versus desktop, emerging markets versus developed markets, the channel mix between our sites and our network, and then a number of product and policy changes. That's really the big driver. I think that we're really pleased, as Nikesh mentioned, Enhanced Campaigns is a great platform that enables us for the future, and as long as we actually have the format that delivers the great ROI, then Enhanced Campaigns will just accelerate this in the future, and that's what we're working on. So it's really the complex puzzle, and it's important that not only we think about CPCs in the context of all of the factors I talked about, but what's even more important is the dynamic of those CPCs and paid clicks together. That's really the magic that actually talks about our growth.

LARRY PAGE: All right, our next question, please?

OPERATOR: We'll go next to Brian Fitzgerald with Jefferies.

TIM O'SHEA, ANALYST, JEFFERIES & CO.: Yes, hi. It's Tim O'Shea for Brian [Pits]. I know it's still early, but can you give us a broad sense for how you're feeling about the holiday shopping season? And do you have any sense, has the updated Google shopping or PLA program has maybe you better positioned to capitalize this holiday? And then just quickly, can you give us a sense of what kind of traction you're seeing from the recent implementation of localized PLAs during the quarter? Thanks.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Just to say that we clearly do not -- as you all know, we don't give any sense of what's going on in the fourth quarter. We actually just are closing our third quarter, so we don't give forward guidance on any of it. I think maybe Nikesh can give a sense of where PLAs are going in general.

NIKESH ARORA: Thanks, Patrick. Tim, I think the important part in PLAs, as I mentioned in the prepared remarks, is that we are transitioning from giving users answers in terms of links to taking them down to entities, and PLAs, product listing adds, is definitely a big step in that direction because we believe that's a great answer for the user and a good user experience long term, especially and more interesting in mobile devices. So from a long-term user experience perspective, we believe that is the right direction. That is a good user experience to have. Not going to particularly comment how that is an impact, what happens in the next few weeks or the next few quarters.

LARRY PAGE: All right, our next question?

OPERATOR: We'll go next to Ken Sena with Evercore.

KEN SENA, ANALYST, EVERCORE PARTNERS: Hi. Thank you. On Google Play, it's my understanding that much of the 30% the developers don't keep actually goes to carriers and OEMs, so I was just wondering if you can update us maybe on those negotiations and when you see Google maybe receiving a greater portion of Play's economics? And then maybe if you could just update us, too, on your thoughts on Travel. Thank you.

LARRY PAGE: Nikesh will take the Play part there.

NIKESH ARORA: On Google Play, as you know that Google play has been something that our teams worked really hard on in the last few years to make sure because it fills out the Android ecosystem and is a key part of making the Android experience a great experience by having great content and great apps on the Google play system. And in terms of economics, the economics, like you said rightfully, are shared between developers, carriers, OEMs and us, and our key with Google Play is to make sure that there's a robust ecosystem. People like Android devices to provide them great functionality, and we believe anybody who brings value to that ecosystem should have economics in that ecosystem, which is a carrier, OEM, or developer or us. We're not going to specifically talk about who keeps what part of the economics, but just to say that we're comfortable with the way the economics work out, and the more important part is it is helping drive the ecosystem in the right direction.

LARRY PAGE: Also, Nikesh, on Travel?

NIKESH ARORA: Yes, on Travel, we continue to work on Travel. As you know, we have a great exciting product on Flight Search, and we have our ITA business, and we're happy with the business the way it is. We are working hard on making sure that the entry-level concepts that applies to product also applies to Travel as in terms of Flight Search.

KEN SENA: Great. Thank you.

LARRY PAGE: Our next question?

OPERATOR: We'll go next to Collin Sebastian with Robert W. Baird & Company.

COLLIN SEBASTIAN, ANALYST, ROBERT W. BAIRD & CO.: Great, thanks very much. First question is, curious how you guys are thinking about the future of cookies in online advertising. Obviously, a lot of chatter about privacy issues and perhaps Google working on that idea as an alternative. And then secondly, haven't heard a whole lot about Japan, although we're seeing pretty -- a fairly rapid shift to Android in that market. I wonder if you could comment on the Google business in Japan and the pace of growth there. Thank you.

LARRY PAGE: Okay, so maybe Nikesh, can you address the cookie question?

NIKESH ARORA: From our perspective, we believe that technological enhancements can definitely improve user security, and we want to make sure that the web continues to remain economically viable in that transition. We have a lot of concepts in this area, but it's very early right now to try and actually elaborate on them and talk about what's going to work, what's not going to work. But as I said, the primary motive is to make sure that we can keep enhancing technologically what's going on, but we want to make sure that we don't break the system and you make sure that things stay secure and economically viable. In terms of Japan, as I mentioned, Japan has been good for us this quarter, and as you rightfully identified, we continue to see robust growth in the multi-screen space in that market. Clearly, it's an early adopter market as it relates to mobility and tablets and devices, so we're feeling very good about how the consumer behavior there is and how that translates into advertising.

LARRY PAGE: Next question?

OPERATOR: We'll take our next question from Stephen Ju with Credit Suisse.

STEPHEN JU, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Larry, different question on Google Fiber if I may. It's now rolled out in a few regions around the country. Can you share with us some of your early learnings in terms of how consumers' behavior changed once the connection speed stepped up the materially in this environment? And what kind of new services or products do you think Google can roll out or how your existing services can change for the better? Thanks.

LARRY PAGE: Thanks, Stephen. Again, it's very early on Google Fiber. It's been announced in several places, I think really rolling out in Kansas City. One of the things that's unique about the Google Fiber offering is that your television service is available right through the data connection, so one big change in having a high-speed data connection is actually the entire kind of television experience, cable TV-like experience, comes straight through your data connection, through your gigabit connection, and people I think have been pretty excited about that experience being a great experience for watching television actually. So our next question?

OPERATOR: We'll go next to John Blackledge with Cowen & Co.

JOHN BLACKLEDGE, ANALYST, COWEN AND COMPANY: Great. Thanks for the question. I'm wondering if you could review the content strategy at YouTube and the willingness to invest in areas like live sports like the NFL and how the content strategy would play in the evolution of YouTube over time? Thank you.

LARRY PAGE: Thanks, John, for the question. I think I'll also give this one to Nikesh.

NIKESH ARORA: Well, as we've always said, that YouTube is an ecosystem which is a combination of great users, great advertisers, and great content, and we talk to content providers all the time because we understand that users come to YouTube so that they can enjoy both user-generated content, other forms of content, both short form and long form, so we're pretty comfortable that we're making great progress. The number of hours that people watch YouTube continues to go up. The amount of videos uploaded to YouTube continues to go up. As Larry mentioned, we're seeing a lot of YouTube users coming off mobile, so we believe our content strategy in YouTube is working. We are constantly talking to people about content all the time, and so sure, we will talk to anybody who wants to talk to us content, but for now, we're happy with where we are. In the end, our goal is to help make sure that our users have a good experience, that they get to see the right content on there, and our advertisers are able to advertise on that platform.

LARRY PAGE: Our next question?

OPERATOR: We'll go next to Scott Devitt with Morgan Stanley.

SCOTT DEVITT, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Hi, thanks. A bigger picture question for Larry, and components of the question have been touched on in the call, but there's been a debate for some time about the Internet becoming more vertical and accelerated by the transition to mobile and that that could serve as a headwind for Google's business, yet your core revenue growth has been remarkably stable for several quarters now, above 20%. And Larry, you've talked about this broad topic in prior calls, but I was just wondering if you could give an updated view of the landscape as it relates to your efforts to go deeper into the transaction funnel to offset verticalization, as well as if you could share your perception of Google's competitive position in a multi-device world versus the legacy desktop/laptop world. And then secondly, any timeline or thoughts that you could give on Project Loon in terms of it becoming a commercial offering? Thanks.

LARRY PAGE: Thanks, Scott, for the questions. The first topic is pretty complex topic. I think we're very well positioned in mobile. I've said this before, but we have Android I think we have tremendous services on Android. And we have, obviously, search and things that work across many different things. I'm tremendously excited about this. I think we have the potential to really improve people's experience as they move more onto mobile and spend more time there, and to make those experiences much more efficient and pleasurable and beautiful for those users. Also, as they do things with third parties, and one thing to keep in mind is we've done a lot of effort around the APIs on Android, around working with app developers and around Google Play as a marketplace for those developers, and those things are evolving all the time in ways to help us, help users, and help those developers. We have a lot of ideas that are in a lot of work going on, so I'm actually very, very excited about that. And I think we're tremendously well positioned to help them (inaudible) move along and make users' experiences better and to improve our business and our developers' businesses.

I find I'm spending most of my time now on mobile and not so much on the whole desktop world, which I think is what people are going to generally do over time. I think on Project Loon, again, it's really early for that, so we announced it because we had to because people were seeing them and they're flying around and so on. It's a small team; it's very exciting. We've been totally amazed by the positive reaction we've gotten across the world and from ISPs and telcos and other people wanting to work with us, which is tremendous. We want to work with all of them. And I think we've hit on something important in trying to improve rural Internet access, which is something that if you're one of the significant number of people in a rural area or a place that doesn't have great Internet access now, it's something that really matters to your quality of life, so we're excited about that.

PATRICK PICHETTE: We have time probably for two more questions, so why don't we jump in on the last two. Jamie?

OPERATOR: We'll go next to Heather Bellini with Goldman Sachs.

HEATHER BELLINI, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Great, thank you for taking the question. Larry, I just was wondering, with advertisers having more choice of broad platforms to use for spending their digital ad dollars, and in particular on mobile, I'm just wondering, do you see a big acceleration in dollars moving from offline to online? Do you see that pace accelerating over the next few years? And also, how will Google continue to differentiate itself here?

LARRY PAGE: Yes, I guess I'll give that to Nikesh. I would say we've always seen a lot of choices in advertising. We've always competed well in that market. I think people are definitely getting more and more excited about moving dollars online. For us, I think the measurability of it, the strength in the tools that are available, and technologies to do that, we just see it as an amazing opportunity, and I think people are more and more realizing them. Nikesh?

NIKESH ARORA: To build on what Larry said, I think he's right. We are expecting more and more dollars to move towards these platforms for a variety of reasons. One, there are more options for more players in the market, which are -- that means they're all working hard towards the same goal of convincing advertisers that this is the place where the users are and this is where advertisers need to be. Also, if you think about what's going on is, as I said earlier in the context of YouTube, we are going to see more and more video coming onto the web, and online mechanisms just more targetable and more addressable. In terms of our differentiation, if you look at what we've done over the last many years is we've actually worked in terms of trying to provide a comprehensive solution across all digital capability, whether it's on Google or it's off Google, whether it's in our network, whether it's with us, whether it's with partners on the web, whether it's on mobile devices, whether it's on desktop devices, whether it's on display ads, search ads or video ads. If you look at it, what we're trying to do is we're trying to make sure that when an advertiser wants to reach users, he can provide them a comprehensive solution that they can go ahead and advertise. And if you couple that with measurement, which is what makes online so much more compelling, that people can look at measurement, look at the analytics around it, so advertisers get a lot more information. They have a lot more options. And of course, in the end, we want to make sure that we focus on very high quality ads. So of you combine all those things, we think we continue to be working towards providing the comprehensive solution, and we work really hard with all the players in the ecosystem, whether it's publishers, agencies, or other media property owners, and we feel good about this.

LARRY PAGE: Next question?

OPERATOR: We'll go next to Justin Post with Merrill Lynch.

JUSTIN POST, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Thank you. Couple of things. First, on the rest-of-world acceleration, could you let us know if there's any platforms like mobile or products like maybe YouTube that really kind of kicked in in the quarter that really helped drive that, maybe it was Google Play? And then on Motorola, it's now getting close to a $1 billion run rate on annual losses. Could you remind us of the synergies that you're seeing with that and why you're encouraged by that, and maybe when that could start to turn the other way? Thanks.

NIKESH ARORA: So clearly, on international, not only is our core [surge] business performing very well, but also, as you've seen other revenues which includes the Play platform, is actually doing very well internationally, so these two are the big contributors for that one. As we stand on Motorola, Larry mentioned it very well at the beginning of the call, right? It is still early days for us. I think that we have -- Dennis and the Team have already made a huge transformation at Motorola. We have now great product quality. The Moto X is the first of the products that have come out, and it's actually been very well received, great product. So the Team is now really working on building out marketing and distribution, which is next phase of it. That's the mindset that we put at Motorola. This is not a this quarter or next quarter, but much more -- a more fundamental optimistic and reset view of the Company. So that's how we think of these issues. Thanks, Justin.

LARRY PAGE: We have time for one more question.

OPERATOR: We'll take our final question from Douglas Anmuth with JPMorgan.

DOUGLAS ANMUTH, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Great thanks for taking the question. Just two things I wanted to ask about. First, just on Enhanced Campaigns, can you give us some sense of what it meant for overall spending in the quarter? And then also, how do you get advertisers to use the location and time-of-day modifiers going forward? And then just on the US business, there was a decel there of about 500 basis points from last quarter. Patrick, you mentioned the networks shift there, obviously, but was there anything else going on there?

PATRICK PICHETTE: No, on your US network, it really is, as you know, our changes in policies, they basically affect dramatically more our network, and because of our network, think of AFS, is really very heavy weighted to US. That's really what's been the main driver for that change. I'll let Nikesh take the front end of the question.

NIKESH ARORA: Yes, in terms of enhanced campaigns, I'm not quite sure what you mean by what it meant for overall spending in the quarter.

DOUGLAS ANMUTH: Is it positive? Was it incremental to revenue do you think in the quarter?

NIKESH ARORA: Yes, to be fair, on the Enhanced Campaign side, we're not actually trying to quantify the effect because we believe it's part of your overall experience and it's a step in the right direction in terms of what you want to achieve. In terms of your question as it relates to location and time-of-day modifiers, these are requests from advertisers, but to give you an example, usually when a car rental company advertises when somebody is in the airport, they are likely to get a higher click-through rate and higher conversion than if somebody is just searching for car rentals when they are sitting at the desktop. So location can be used as a great modifier in terms of advertising, in terms creating better conversion. That's just one example. We have millions of examples like that where you can actually use location very effectively, or time-of-day very effectively. The traditional example of when I'm hungry and you show me an ad, more likely to click on the ad which offers me restaurant choices and food choices than if I'm not hungry and it's late at night. So there are different modifiers that allow us to create different advertising. People shop more at lunch time, so there's a whole bunch of stuff that comes in when you start providing location and time-of-day modifiers, so that's why I think it's good.

LARRY PAGE: I want to thank everyone for spending so much time with us, and turn it over to Patrick.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Just before we close the call, I think we have great news to announce. All of you that have worked with us with the investor community group, you know that Willa Chalmers, who's part of our IR Team, has been missing in action for the last few weeks. I'm just incredibly proud to announce that Jacob Allen Chalmers is now in the world and has arrived a couple days ago. Mom is doing incredibly well, so Willa is doing great, too, so just to let you know that she has not disappeared. She's doing great. The whole family is -- we're all ecstatic about it, and it's another great Googler addition to the family, so that's why Willa disappeared for a few weeks. With that, I'll turn it back to Larry to close the call.

LARRY PAGE: Thank you all.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Cheers. Jamie? Off to you. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Thank you, sir. That does conclude today's conference. We do appreciate your participation, and have a great day.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
goog : Google Inc.
   IN
iappsp : Cloud Computing | i8394 : Computer Services | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | i8395464 : Internet Search Engines | iint : Internet/Online | itech : Technology
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c32 : Advertising | c15 : Performance | c31 : Marketing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | uk : United Kingdom | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020131024e9ah006pr
  


 HD
 Q2  2013 Google Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
10,301 words
   PD
18 July 2013
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©013 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day, everyone, and welcome to the Google Inc second-quarter 2013 earnings conference call. Today's call is being recorded.

   TD
At this time I'd like to turn the call over to Willa Chalmers, Investor Relations Manager. Please, go ahead, ma'am.

WILLA CHALMERS, IR MANAGER, GOOGLE INC: Thank you, Jamie. Good afternoon, everyone, and welcome to today's second-quarter 2013 earnings conference call. With us are Larry Page, Chief Executive Officer; Patrick Pichette, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Nikesh Arora, Senior Vice President and Chief Business Officer.

Also, as you know, we distribute our earnings release through our Investor Relations website located at investor.google.com. Please refer to our IR website for our earnings releases as well as the supplementary slides that accompany the call. You can also visit our Google+ Investor Relations page for the latest company news and updates so please check it out. This call is also being Webcast from investor.google.com. A replay of the call will be available on our website later today.

Let me quickly go over the Safe Harbor. Some of the statements that we make today may be considered forward-looking, including statements regarding Google's future investments, our long-term growth and innovation, the expected performance of our businesses, and our expected level of capital expenditures. These statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially. Please note that these forward-looking statements reflect our opinions only as of the date of this presentation. And, we undertake no obligation to revise or publicly release the results of any revision to these forward-looking statements in light of new information or future events.

Please refer to our SEC filings for a more detailed description of the risk factors that may affect our results. Please note that certain financial measures that we use on this call, such as operating income and operating margin, are expressed on a non-GAAP basis and have been adjusted to exclude charges related to stock-based compensation. We have also adjusted our net cash provided by our operating activities to remove capital expenditures which we refer to as free cash flow. Our GAAP results and reconciliations of non-GAAP to GAAP measures can be found in our earnings press release.

With that, I will now turn the call over to Larry.

LARRY PAGE, CEO, GOOGLE INC: Hello, everyone, and thanks for joining our call this afternoon. Google had a great quarter, over $14 billion in revenue, up 19% year on year. Amazing performance for a company that has yet to celebrate its 15th birthday.

We live in a world of abundant computing with multiple operating systems and increasing numbers of devices. It's a very different environment from when Google started. There was essentially one OS and one device category, the PC. These kind of changes don't happen that often; once a decade, maybe even less, actually. But, the shift from laptop to mobiles, from one screen to multiple screens, creates a tremendous opportunity for Google. With more devices, more information, and more activity online than ever, the potential to improve people's lives is immense. Getting you the right information, just when you need it, creating the tools to make everyone more effective at home and at work, and helping you share and remember the moments that matter in life.

That's why I'm so excited about the velocity and execution of our platforms, apps, and devices. First, platforms. With hindsight, Android and Chrome were no-brainers. At the time, they were big bets. The movement across these platforms is tremendous as you saw at our annual IO developer conference in May. I was astounded, we had over 1 million people tuning in live, just to watch our developer keynotes. We've now activated more than 900 million Android devices worldwide and we're lining up over 1.5 million devices every day. That's pretty amazing given that the first Android phone launched less than five years ago.

And, apps usage is increasing fast. Over 50 billion apps have been now downloaded from the Google Play store. And, in fact, we've already paid out more money to Android developers this year than in the whole of 2012.

I love the ability to access your stuff and play anywhere. Take our new music subscription service launched in May. It is an easy fun way to discover new music with all the songs there, ready to go. You never have to think about the device you're using. Chrome, even though only four years old, has over 750 million users worldwide and growing.

The next, apps, Our goal is to design everything so it's beautifully simple and hassle free. Users shouldn't have to need to think about our technology. It should just work. This quarter we completely revamped our maps UI. The map is the screen, no clutter around the edges. There's more information about your surroundings so it's easier to explore. And, we've launched a new, improved navigation feature with notification about incidents before you leave and updates to save time if traffic conditions change. Best of all, this new maps experience is now available on almost all devices you'd be likely to use.

It's the same with Google+. We've done a complete redesign to make use of the entire screen and everything looks consistent, whatever the device or the platform. In addition, the team massively upgraded the photos experience, making software design for professionals automatically available to everyone for free. There's no need for wrinkles anymore.

Take a look on Plus. Many of your photos will now be marked, enhanced and improved automatically. Finally, we launched a new communication app called Hangouts. You can talk to the people you care about across all the major platforms. Video calls from your phone are very cool. Give them a try.

I'm excited about the progress we continue to make with Search. Our Knowledge Graph is now available in 29 languages. And, we've expanded the range of information available. For example, we just added nutrition data. Ask Google how many calories there are in a glass of white wine and you'll find out it's 123, or an avocado, 234 calories. It's good to have the facts if you want to keep healthy. And, we launched Google Now on IOS in April.

In the same way, we want to make everything -- we want to make advertising super simple for customers. Online advertising and developed in very specific, device specific, ways with separate campaigns for desktop and mobile. This made arduous work for advertisers and agencies and meant mobile opportunities often got missed. That's why we launched Enhanced Campaigns. Advertisers have upgraded 6 million campaigns. That's almost 75% of all their active campaigns. And, Nikesh will talk in a little more detail about the positive reaction from clients. This is the biggest ever change to AdWords and the velocity and execution has been great thanks to the hard work of all the teams.

Finally, devices. There's so much excitement around new devices today and the potential for innovation is tremendous. You can now buy the HTC-1 and the Samsung Galaxy X4 with Google Play editions and enjoy the best of Google. There's a ton of momentum around Chromebooks which are growing fast and defying the more general decline in PC sales.

Finally, I know you're all eagerly anticipating what Motorola is launching soon. Having been a customer for a while, I'm really excited. We're very optimistic about the opportunities in front of Google today. The potential for technology to make people's lives better is tremendous.

But, to achieve that potential, we need to stay focused. That's why we continue to invest the vast majority of our resources and time in our core products. My job as CEO is also to think about the future and ensure we continue to bet on new technology that can solve big problems in the world. Project Loon, which we launched in June, is a great example. Bringing affordable balloon powered Internet access to remote areas is an idea that Sergey and I have been thinking about for over a decade. It was great to see that project literally get off the ground and give people a bit more hope for an improving world.

None of this would happen without great people and we are so lucky that we have them. I'd like to thank all the Googlers and Motorolans who make everything possible. Keep up that velocity and execution.

Now, I'll hand the call over to Patrick.

PATRICK PICHETTE, SVP & CFO, GOOGLE INC: Thank you, Larry and good afternoon, everyone. Thank you for joining us. So, why don't we dive in by reviewing the details of our overall business financial performance. So, here we go.

Our gross total consolidated revenue grew 19% year-over-year to $14.1 billion. The overall business was up 1% quarter-over-quarter. Google standalone gross revenue grew 20% year-over-year to $13.1 billion and was up 1% quarter-over-quarter. Our Google website revenues was up 18% year-over-year to $8.9 billion, was in fact up 3% quarter-over-quarter.

Our Google Network revenue grew 7% year-over-year to $3.2 billion, and was down 2% quarter-over-quarter. You'll remember the advertising policy decisions we implemented during Q4 and Q1 to ensure that useful and safe user experience continued to have its negative impact on network revenue. Other revenue grew 138% year-over-year to $1 billion, roughly flat quarter-over-quarter. Play store digital sales of apps and content drove the year-on-year and quarter-over-quarter growth. And, it's worth noting that in Q1 we included some seasonal hardware sales due to overflow from Q4, which skewed the Q2 comp somewhat. Finally, please note that, without currency you fluctuations, Google standalone revenue growth would in fact have been 22% year-over-year and 3% quarter-over-quarter.

Turning to Motorola Mobility, gross revenue there was $998 million, just shy of $1 billion. And, it's clear that we've made a lot of progress at Motorola in the past year. And, we are especially excited about the you future of our upcoming product lineup. So, stay tuned.

At Google, our global aggregate paid click growth was strong at 22% year-over-year. In fact, up 4% quarter-over-quarter. Our aggregate cost per click was down 6% year-over-year and down 2% quarter-over-quarter. And, currency fluctuations in this case had a minimal effect in Q2 CPC growth.

And yet, our monetization metrics continue to be impacted by the usual factors that we've discussed many times including geographic mix, channel mix, property mix, our product policy changes, as well as FX. Turning to the geographic performance of Google standalone business, we continue to see a steady performance in the US and Rest of World while the UK was negatively impacted by a warm spring, some FX in their case, and a tough year-over-year comp.

In our earnings slides, which you can find on our Investor Relations website, you'll see that we've broken down our revenue by US, UK, and Rest of World to show the impact of FX and the benefit of our hedging program. So, please refer to those slides for the exact calculation.

US revenue was up 18% year-over-year to $5.9 billion. The UK was up 12% year-over-year, to $1.3 billion which included $24 million of benefits from our hedging program. It is in fact worth noting that in fixed FX terms the UK grew 15% year-over-year. Non-US revenue, excluding UK, accounted for 45% of the total revenue, or $5.9 billion. And, it was up 23% year-over-year which includes $11 million benefits from our hedging program. In fixed FX terms, Rest of World grew a solid 28%.

Coming back to an aggregate level for the total consolidated business, our other cost of revenue was $2.9 billion in Q2, excluding stock-based compensation and Motorola restructuring. Our non-GAAP operating expenses totaled $4.2 billion, also excluding stock based compensation and Motorola restructuring. And, our non-GAAP operating profit was $4 billion in Q2, resulting in a non-GAAP operating margin for the consolidated business of 28%. For standalone Google, our traffic acquisition costs were $3 billion, or 25% of total advertising revenue. Other cost of revenue was $2.1 billion, again excluding $110 million of stock-based compensation. Non-GAAP operating expenses were $3.8 billion, excluding stock-based compensation of $633 million. And, non-GAAP operating profit was $4.2 billion in Q2, resulting in non-GAAP operating margin of 32% for the standalone Google segment.

Please note that a revaluation of our depreciation policy as it relates to our real estate portfolio resulted in an additional $121 million in Google segment depreciation expenses. About 50% of which represented a one-time charge for assets that are now fully depreciated. With this change in place, depreciation and amortization expense on property, plant, and equipment for standalone Google was $667 million for this quarter.

At Motorola Mobility, total non-GAAP operating expenses, included cost of revenue, were $1.2 billion. Keep in mind, intangible amortization expenses attributed to the standalone Google and Motorola Mobility are in fact included in these non-GAAP measures. Of the $283 million in intangible amortization expense in the quarter, $153 million was the result of the acquisition of Motorola, of which $116 million was allocated to Google and $37 million was allocated to Motorola Mobility. And, as a result, the non-GAAP operating loss for Motorola Mobility was $218 million in Q2, and a non-GAAP operating margin for that segment of minus 22%.

Headcount for the consolidated business was down roughly 9,000 people in Q2. Please keep in mind that consolidated count now excludes Motorola home business. It also reflects the impact of the ongoing mobility restructuring. Standalone Google added about 1,400 people during the quarter. And, in total, the consolidated company ended the quarter with around 44,800 full-time employees.

Our effective tax rate was 24% in Q2. Like in Q1, several one-time items, as well as the continued shift of earnings between domestic and international subsidiaries, impacted our tax rate this quarter. And, also please remember that in Q1 we also had a significant lower rate in that case due to the 2012 R&D credit which was obviously not applied to our Q2 rate.

Let me now turn to cash management. Other income and expense was $247 million for the quarter, which reflects realized gains on investments and interest income, offset by the discontinued -- the continued impact of our FAS 133 expense on our hedging program. For more detail on OI&E, again, please refer to the slides that accompany this call on our IR website.

We continue to be very pleased with our operating cash flow which is strong this quarter at $4.7 billion. CapEx for the quarter was $1.6 billion. And, this was versus last quarter at $1.2 billion. Want to remind everybody that the majority of our CapEx spend is related to data center construction, facilities related purchases, and production equipment.

CapEx is just inherently lumpy. And, as I mentioned last quarter during my remarks, our infrastructure will continue to be a strategic area of investment. It's one of the foundations of our future growth. Our free cash flow, again, very strong, $3.1 billion for the quarter.

Larry's comments make it clear that there are just enormous growth opportunities ahead of us as a company. It's in this period of optimism that we continue to fully fund strategic growth opportunities with the same confidence and discipline we demonstrated while growing our mobile business, Android, YouTube, Chrome, just to name a few.

With this, I'll hand it off to Nikesh who will cover more details of our business performance in the quarter. And, after his remarks we'll open up the lines for questions. Nikesh?

NIKESH ARORA, SVP & CHIEF BUSINESS OFFICER, GOOGLE INC: Thank you, Patrick. As Patrick mentioned our businesses had a strong quarter. We had over $13.1 billion in Google standalone gross revenue. Overall, performance was particularly strong in the auto sector, in Brazil, and, as Patrick mentioned, growth in the UK was hampered because of the particularly warm spring.

Before I talk about trends we're seeing and investments we're making in our business, let me call out the effort of our marketing team that continues to create great Google moments. In May, they put on our second annual YouTube Brandcast event in New York for 1,800 advertisers. The event was a great way to show YouTube's unique ability to help marketers connect with highly coveted consumers and ultimately build their brands. At Brandcast, Jeffrey Katzenberg of DreamWorks said YouTube is a whole new entertainment paradigm, and we think he's right.

Also, as Larry mentioned, the team put on another successful Google IO developer conference showcasing our incredible momentum across our platforms to over 6,000 developers in San Francisco with over 1 million people tuning in from around the world. We continue to be pleased with how our business is evolving, growing, and diversifying.

There are three key areas where we continue to make investments. First, our transformation into a marketing platform that works across the connected world Larry described. Second, our systematic move up the marketing funnel to help clients more and more with brand-building campaigns. Third, our investment in our non-ads business such as enterprise services, hardware, and digital content through Google Play.

First, our investments for our constantly connected users. Rapid adoption of new devices means that more people are spending more time online and connected. In fact, new devices and new connectivity means we're moving to a world where people are constantly connected with devices with them all the time. As an example, e-marketers say for the time spent online on mobile devices by US adults grew 273% from 2009 to 2012. From 2011 to 2012 alone, the time spent connected to mobile devices increased by nearly 0.5 hour a day. This means not only are a lot of new services and apps available for users, but also a huge opportunity exists for businesses looking to reach mobile users at the right time and location.

That brings in Enhanced Campaigns. As Larry talked about this, Enhanced Campaigns is a big long-term bet that is designed to help advertisers more easily reach customers across devices with the right message, all within one campaign. We already migrated 6 million of active campaigns to Enhanced Campaigns over the last many months. Our goal is to migrate all of our advertisers and campaigns by the end of this month.

This effort has been executed at breakneck speed and client reaction has been generally positive. We're getting back evidence from clients seeing improved performance using Enhanced Campaigns. For example, Pizza Hut saw their mobile ROI increase by 20%. They found that their mobile click-through rate has increased by more than 60% while their cost per order on smartphones has dropped by 17%.

We believe Enhanced Campaigns does set up our clients and our business really well for the long-term. And, the move towards a constantly connected world goes far beyond just direct response and transactional marketing. People are spending time watching videos, playing games, consuming news, all this creates great new opportunities for brand marketers to engage users. In fact, powered by our TrueView format, YouTube's mobile revenue in June of this year was 3 times what it was at the beginning of the year. To help advertisers reach viewers across more screens, we've opened up our TrueView formats to all of our AdMob network across 1,000s of apps.

Turning our attention to brand marketers, this is a very important area for us where we continue to invest broadly. It's important because the largest global marketers from CPG companies to film studios all conduct large major brand advertising campaigns. Of course, that represents significant budgets that have historically been spent on TV. A great example of this was seen at the Cannes Lions Festival, the Dove Real Beauty Sketches campaign that appeared on YouTube won the Titanium Grand Prix award which is considered the festival's highest honor.

We worked with Burberry to launch Burberry Kisses which allows users to send a message to loved ones sealed with a digital imprint of their real kiss. This campaign runs on YouTube and our display network across desktop, tablet, and mobile. And, last month we began to integrate our recent acquisition, Wildfire, into the double click platform so that brands can now manage the broader customer journey across search, display, mobile, social, rich media, and video. Again, all within one platform.

Finally, I want to talk a little bit about our investment in emerging non-ad businesses. We made a bunch of bets that are beginning to show promise. We're seeing acceleration in new businesses such as hardware, digital content, and enterprise.

First, hardware. We continue to see great momentum across Chromebooks and mobile devices such as our Nexus program. Around the world, Chromebooks are now in more than 6,600 brick and mortar stores, including Walmart and Staples. That's about a 3 time increase this quarter. As Larry said, we've also added two new devices to the Google Play store for Samsung and HTC.

On the digital apps and content front, through Google Play we continue to see tremendous amount of growth in this area. People from over 190 countries now download apps from Google Play every day. More than 50 billion apps have been downloaded so far. In the last year, Google Play digital content, like music and movies, have launched in 21 new countries, including India, Mexico, Russia, with 8 more European countries launching Google Play books this week. Publishers like Penguin, Random House, Time Inc, movie studios like Disney and NBC Universal, and app developers like King and Square Enix are creating carefree experiences for our users. We've also collaborated with all the major record labels to launch a new music subscription service that users seem to be enjoying -- really enjoying a lot.

Lastly, on the enterprise front, that's another great revenue stream for Google. It comprises productivity apps like and Docs and Gmail as well as our Cloud infrastructure. Now more than 50% of the Fortune 500 companies use a paid enterprise product from Google and over 5 million businesses use our productivity apps. This means we have close, long-term relationships with our enterprise customers.

New customers this quarter include some of our world's leading businesses like Federal Express, which has built their store locater in Google maps, Snapchat which runs their application on Google's Cloud infrastructure, and LinkedIn is using Google Search Appliance. New Google Apps customers include Pearson, Keller Williams Realty and the city of Boston. HP is now Google Apps reseller, combining Google software with HP hardware for an initiative to help small businesses call SMB IT in a Box.

To conclude, across our entire business we're investing with enthusiasm and have tremendous opportunities. We strongly believe that we're making the right moves for our users and clients and we're extremely optimistic about the future.

With that, let me hand back to Patrick.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thank you, Nikesh. Jamie, if you want to give us the instructions, please, to get going on the Q&A, please, I would appreciate it.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: Thank you.

(Operator Instructions)

Ross Sandler, Deutsche Bank.

ROSS SANDLER, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Great. Thanks, guys. Nikesh, I just had one high level question on Enhanced Campaigns and the transition. Could you give us a little bit more color about the ROIs that most of your customers are seeing?

You mentioned a few comments, but are they going up? And, do you see a significant opportunity in providing conversion tracking across different screens? What do you think will happen with Search budgets if and when you can solve that problem? Thanks.

NIKESH ARORA: Thank you for the question. I think it's fair to say that over the last nine months we've had to do a super herculean task to take millions and millions of campaigns, as Larry mentioned, 6 million campaigns, where we've had to work with our advertising partners to go ahead and convert them towards Enhanced Campaigns.

And, we've had some amazing insights, both working with the advertisers and as well as our teams, as many advertisers have discovered that they were not addressing the mobile opportunity appropriately, they discovered new inventory, they discovered better ROI, and better conversion.

Of course, we anticipate that conversion analytics will work across every screen and be able to be made available to all of our advertisers. We believe that as we get more and more -- as we get better, in terms of being able to provide more targeting and more comprehensive ad solutions for mobility and across all screens, that the ROI should continue to improve.

So, I'm very optimistic in the longer term because we believe mobility provides more context to advertisers in terms of where the users are or where they've been. Which allow for more accurate advertising and advertising which is almost as good as information for them. As that begins to happen, we think the advertising ROI continues to increase. And, hopefully, that means good things for Search budgets.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thank you, Ross, for your question. Jamie, let's go to the next question.

OPERATOR: Ben Schachter, Macquarie.

BEN SCHACHTER, ANALYST, MACQUARIE RESEARCH: One question for Larry and one for Patrick. Larry, when you think about hardware, are there other hardware categories beyond just phones and tablets where you believe Google can potentially build meaningful businesses? And then, Patrick, in Q1 we didn't really see the usual uptick in expenses that you see annually.

But then, now we do see it in Q2. It sounds like some of that was the accounting issue around depreciation. Can you help us understand what happened there more? Thanks.

LARRY PAGE: Thanks, Ben, for the question. I think we've been an early innovator in smartphones and we've been really excited about starting Android when no one really thought it was going to be interesting. And, I think it's always a mistake to assume that technology will be static. So, I think certainly over the long term, we're going to have new kinds of devices and ways of interacting with computing and the Internet.

We're obviously excited about Google Glass and new ways of interacting with hardware and new types of hardware. With any technological change you probably overestimate the short-term and underestimate the long-term. So, I think our -- we're really excited about making those investments and making sure we're positioned to the future. That's why I love using Glass because I feel like every time I'm using Glass I'm living that future, that's really, really exciting to me.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Why don't I jump on the next question. So, on the issue of expenses, look, our expenses in Q2 were completely in line with the objectives we had set for ourselves. In general, we continue to exercise financial discipline and monitor our product profitability. But, it's on that basis that we recognize the significant opportunities that are ahead of us.

And, with the view to the long-term, we continue to invest significantly and intelligently to fuel these opportunities. The fundamental issue is, as I said a number of times on previous calls, if you want to hire X amount of people, you have a target for the quarter or for the year.

They come in sometimes a bit over, sometimes a bit under. But, the real question is are you still on the right trajectory for the long-term you're shooting for. That's really the issue between Q1 and Q2, Ben. Thank you for your question. Why don't we go to the next question, Jamie?

OPERATOR: Mark Mahaney, RBC Capital Markets.

MARK MAHANEY, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Great. Two questions, please. First, on CPC, Patrick, you mentioned a couple of factors behind the deflation there. I don't think you ticked off mobile. I don't know if there's any particular reason why you didn't or maybe I missed it.

In terms of the employee adds, maybe a question for Larry, as you think about where you've been able to get employees, the ease or the difficulty with which you've been able to hire the employees you wanted to hire, can you comment how that has changed if at all over the last year or two? Thank you.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Why don't I jump in on the first one. Clearly, mobile has some effect in it, and we've talked about that in the past. It's one of the many factors that are at work. I just gave the list, and the property mix, obviously, and the channel mix includes a bunch of mobile shifts as well in there. That's part of the equation clearly for sure that drives both sides of the equation.

I just want to remind everybody that it's always dangerous to just look at CPCs by themselves or just look at paid clicks by themselves. But, in fact it's a combination of the two that gives you the health of the business. And, these mixes move all over the place, depending on the number of changes going on in any quarter. But, overall, very pleased with the overall performance. On headcount, I'll led it to Larry to jump in.

LARRY PAGE: Yes, Mark, I think -- I don't think we've seen any significant change in the short-term on hiring. I think we're really lucky that we have really great people at the company and more great people who want to work with us. We've been able to buy small companies too where you get great people. And, I don't see any major changes in how that's been changing.

I also think retention for the company has been great. People are excited to work here. They're excited to work on important things and make the world better. And, we're able to hire some of the best people in the world. I think that's been continuing and it's pretty stable.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thank you for the question, Mark. Jamie, let's go to the next question, please.

OPERATOR: Carlos Kirjner, Sanford Bernstein.

CARLOS KIRJNER, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & CO.: Thank you, two questions. Larry, I think you sometimes say that technology has done only 1% of what it can do, suggesting that there's a lot of opportunity for Google. If that's the case, why isn't your R&D budget 10%, 20% or materially higher than today?

Or in other words, what limits your ability to spend more to capture these opportunities? Secondly, Patrick, can you tell us in general what specific financial operating metrics you use to evaluate the success of Google Fiber as a business? Thank you.

LARRY PAGE: Yes, that's a really great question, Carlos. I think that's our main job is to figure out you how to obviously invest more to achieve greater outcomes for the world, for the company and so on. And, I think those opportunities are clearly there as we've seen in the past with things like Chrome and Android, and I've talked about that a lot.

I think that execution of velocity, I've talked about it a lot too. It's pretty easy to come up with ideas. It's pretty hard to make them real and get them to billions of people. That's what's for me is so exciting about being a company who, like Google, is that we get to do technological innovation at scale and get it out to -- on the scale of the whole world, to billions of people. But, I wish we could just snap our fingers and accomplish that.

It's actually a lot of hard work and takes a lot of great people working really hard to make that happen. And, we're working every day to improve our processes, improve our leadership, improve how we're organized and to make that all go faster.

That's why I come into work excited every day. And, I think everyone else does too. I wish we could snap our fingers and just do a tremendous amount more instantly. But, the reality is it's hard work to scale and that's what we do.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Carlos, I'll take the second one related to Google Fiber. Just as a context for everybody, we have been on the public record to say we're running Google Fiber and excited about it and we always had profitability as one of the key criteria for this opportunity. And, in terms of metrics, they should be just aligned with any sound business that's in that domain of access which is a combination -- but first, actually, it was interesting because the question was how successful was it going to be, the product.

And then -- meaning how many people would want to take it. And then, the second -- so, we've been obviously very pleased by our results in Kansas City and now the announcements of the other two cities we've made since then. And then, there's all the regular metrics you can imagine which have to do with cost of infrastructures, cost to serve and then how they flow into a profitability model.

There's no real rocket science in the financials of it. The real magic occurs with the definition of the product, the innovation on the technology that the teams are pushing, and what makes Google Fiber 100 times faster than the next best thing. That's really what we're really focused on. So, I hope that answers your question. And, let's go to the next question, Jamie.

OPERATOR: Doug Anmuth, JPMorgan.

DOUG ANMUTH, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Great, thanks for taking my question. Just wanted to ask about the network sites deceleration that you saw, a 12% growth last quarter and 7% growth this quarter. If you could just talk about some of the key drivers there and perhaps how much is self-inflicted as you're cleaning up more of the sites and quality and everything?

Secondly, can you talk about the key drivers that you see in terms of improving conversion rates for mobile ads? I know you mentioned the conversion analytics. What else do you think gets mobile ad conversion up over the next few years? Thank you.

PATRICK PICHETTE: For the first part -- I'll answer the first part of the question, Jamie -- and then -- sorry, Doug, and then, Nikesh will answer the second part. Clearly, the network deceleration, we've -- that's why we made the comment last quarter about the DLA and the policies. And, it's clearly having an impact as now we've had a number of partners that have, through Q1 and Q2, have all been notified and made the changes to their behavior.

So, these policies are now coming into compliance and as a result of it, you see the impact. But, we really believe that this is a really good thing for our users. And, in the long term will really benefit both the users and Google. That's the core elements of what's going on there. And then, for the second question, I'll let Nikesh jump in.

NIKESH ARORA: Yes, thank you, Patrick. I think it's important to understand, as I said, that improving conversion rates for us requires us to do a lot of things. One is we have to understand the cross-device behavior better. We have to understand the cross-device conversion people. People can start a search on one device and conclude it on another device.

These opportunities did not exist in the past when we were all focused on one screen. In addition to that, as we talk about mobility, we start to understand the context of the users a lot better. As I said, where are they, where have they been, what could their search possibly mean?

When they're searching -- in a car parking lot and searching for another car dealership, that gives us a very different signal than if you're sitting at your desk and searching for a car. All those attributes, all those factors need to go in, into creating better targeting, better advertising for our end users so that that actually helps increase ROI for advertisers and hopefully ROI for us in the longer term.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thanks for your question, Doug. Jamie, let's go to our next question, please.

OPERATOR: Scott Devitt, Morgan Stanley.

SCOTT DEVITT, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Hi, I had two questions. First, Larry mentioned some of the new features in the maps update. I think also the Gmail tab update seems like it's being pushed to users you now. It would be great to know -- if you could share the time line just for the full roll-out for the US and internationally, any implications you foresee the update may have on those that are relying on marketing as a distribution channel?

And then, secondly, Larry also spoke about balloon deployed Internet access. I was wondering if you could talk about another initiative that seems like it has significant opportunity long-term, the automated vehicle opportunity? And, when you think of that as a commercial opportunity at scale. Thanks.

LARRY PAGE: Yes, thanks for the questions, Scott. I think -- I'm not sure the detail of the Gmail roll-out. I think -- I've been excited to use it and I think it's a really great experience. I think we're doing a lot to improve people's experience on Gmail. I mentioned we have a huge number of users on Gmail. It's growing quickly. We're really, really excited about it.

And, obviously there's some things around the e-mail experience that can be improved and we're doing a lot to organize commercial offers and things like that, make sure that they're -- you're not getting overwhelmed by spam and so on. I think those have been great, very user positive features that we're rolling out.

I think in terms of automated cars, I think, again, that's a very early stage thing. I think we're very excited about it. I think it has potential again to have tremendous impact on people's lives on mobility and so on. And, I think there's nothing that's changed about that. We're super excited about it, we're working hard, It's very early stage project, obviously.

Then there's the last part of your question, I mean, I think it's hard to predict exactly when these things will be commercial. My question I always ask is why aren't you doing it today? So, we try to reduce whatever roadblocks that we can to getting things out as quickly as possible. And, I think -- I think there's great opportunity there.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thank you for your questions, Scott. Jamie, let's go to our next question, please.

OPERATOR: Anthony DiClemente, Barclays.

ANTHONY DICLEMENTE, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Hi, thanks. I have one for Patrick and one for Larry. Patrick, just want to ask about CapEx. I think you mentioned in your comments that data centers and other network infrastructure was lumpy and responsible for the doubling of CapEx.

I'm just wondering, I'm not sure from an accounting perspective what the useful life is on some of those investments? And, whether or not the amortization of those assets is part of what's causing a little bit of the uplift in operating expenses? Would love to hear a little more about CapEx.

Larry, as Google continues to invest for future growth, I just wanted to ask how do you, as a leader of the company, ensure that the people at Google and your employees keep the small entrepreneurial culture that Google had and was known for in its earlier days? Thanks a lot for the question.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Let me jump in, Anthony, on the first part and then I'll let Larry answer the second. We don't give the details of the different categories of depreciation for our assets. But, you can imagine that as we build these -- the data centers and the computers, clearly data centers have a long lifetime.

Because if you think of them as land, electricity, power, building shells, cooling towers, all that technology has much longer useful life. The computers themselves, the machines, the servers have a much shorter lifetime. And, we track all these by categories, obviously.

And, clearly there's a relationship between that and our depreciation rates that have been -- between that and that have been climbing over the last few quarters. There's nothing magical about it as well. It's just basically what you would expect by category. On the second question, I'll let Larry answer.

LARRY PAGE: Yes, it's a great question, I think. I think I'm very, very excited to see -- I mentioned the Project Loon or the automated cars. I think a lot of it is making sure that our employees and Google as a company has permission to do important things. And, those things always start with a small group of people. They start with 1 or 2 people, then 10 people and so on, and those people can get a lot of things done.

So, I think partly I measure the health of the company in that way is we're able to start up new and important things and make traction on them. And, that's the only way we end up with things like Android and Chrome, those kind of projects. So, I look at it as a portfolio thing.

There's some number of people that like to work on really crazy things that are going to really change the world. And, want to deal with 10 other friends and work hard on them and make sure we're creating those opportunities and growing them into things that become Gmail or Android or Chrome or things like that. So, I look at it across the portfolio and I think we're doing quite well and I'm pretty excited about it.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thank you for your question, Anthony. Jamie, let's go to our next question, please.

OPERATOR: Mark May, Citi.

MARK MAY, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Thanks for taking my questions. The first one, I'm wondering, there was an expectation, I think, starting this quarter that we'd start to see some of the impact of Enhanced Campaigns. And, obviously, you're seeing great adoption of that. And, that that adoption and the impact that that might have on blended prices might offset these mix factors that you referenced.

I wonder if you could help walk us through why that wasn't the case necessarily in this quarter? And then, secondly, probably for Patrick, I wonder can you help estimate the impact on the network growth in the quarter from the quality improvement initiatives? And, are these issues that might impact future quarters or was this mainly a first half of this year impact?

LARRY PAGE: Yes, that's a great question. I'll just say maybe one sentence, then turn it over to the other guys. I think it's important to keep in mind Enhanced Campaigns the largest change we made in AdWords, ever. It was done pretty quickly. So, I think we're still very, very early stages of that.

We changed tremendous amounts for how our teams operate, how our advertisers operate, how everyone buys those ads, what the users see. And, we've done it pretty well. It's been pretty smooth, which I'm really excited about. But, like I said, that's the early stages of a very, very major change. I think we're very pleased with how that's going.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Yes, very much so. And so, on the second part of your question, Mark, I think the quality, the force for quality around our policies, they will take a year to flow through. Once you reset the bar, then it actually -- by the time -- people will adhere to these changes but then you have to actually navigate through the entire year-over-year effect which will probably take a couple more quarters.

That's just a timing issue. Having said that, I just want to remind everybody, again, that the fundamental issue that we see is it's really important for us to actually have a great user experience. And, Susan and her teams pounded this by making changes on a constant basis to make sure that at the end of the day there is that smart about the quality of the user experience, and the quality of the ads.

Because in the end that's what really drives the benefit in the long term. So, when we have to hit -- take some hits in the short term in order to get the right answer in the long-term for our users and our advertisers, we're always ready to them. And, that's a great example it. We're actually not too worried about it.

We have so many other areas that -- we've just talked about Enhanced Campaigns. There's PLAs. There's so many other areas that offers us opportunities that we just got to keep this in balance. Thank you for your question, Mark. Jamie, let's go to our next question, please.

OPERATOR: Heather Bellini, Goldman Sachs.

HEATHER BELLINI, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Great. Thank you very much for the question. I just wanted to follow up on Enhanced Campaigns. I guess one of the questions people are trying to get at is was there any impact from Enhanced Campaigns on paid clicks and CPCs in the quarter that you could try and help us calibrate?

And then, I guess the other question would be given obviously it is still new and broad roll-out this quarter, how many quarters do you think this needs to be in place for you to have a good sense of the impact it might have on those metrics? And then, sorry, then my last question was anything related to the impact on FX related to CPCs? I didn't think I heard that. Thank you.

NIKESH ARORA: Hi, Heather, this is Nikesh. Thank you for your question. I think -- let me step back and say first of all, it's, as Larry mentioned and Patrick mentioned, it is an existential requirement for us to take our advertisers and move them to a campaign strategy which allows us to move them across multiple screens.

This wasn't something that is just a remedy imperative. It's an imperative from a simplicity perspective, from an advertiser return perspective, and also from the way our teams operate. We have spent the last six months migrating over 6 million campaigns, as I mentioned. We'll probably be done by the end of this month which is not too far away.

And, as you can imagine, that we've been focusing and moving these things across the board. So, we're still looking at the full impact since the impact has graduated over the last few months. Now, in terms of what the impacts of this should be in the longer term, as I mentioned earlier, the impact in the longer term should be that we should be able to provide, simpler, faster, better ads to our advertisers across multiple screens.

In terms of when you should be able to see effects of these things, obviously there are effects that we see and we monitor and we take a look at, but it's too early for us to go out and start detailing what the impact of these things are. Of course, in the long-term it should have a positive impact on conversions and, as a result, all resulting metrics that affect conversion.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Heather, I'll just jump on your very last question about FX related to CPCs. As I said in my comments, there's actually a marginal effect. FX was not a big factor this quarter. It has been a little bit for the UK, as I mentioned, but for the rest of our -- the world, it has not been a major impact for the CPC issue. Thank you for your questions, Heather. Jamie, let's go to our next question, please.

OPERATOR: Justin Post, Merrill Lynch.

JUSTIN POST, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Great, thank you. Patrick, the gross profit growth has been trailing revenue growth, I think it was about 14% this quarter, for about three quarters especially. Can you talk about what really drove the step-down last year in 3Q?

And, is there any way to see that gap close? And, do you use gross profit as a measure or do you look more at revenue growth? Just some of the drivers of the difference would be really helpful. Thank you.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thanks, Justin. Again, a topic that's for financial analysts have been always top of mind. I just want to reiterate some of the basic messages that have not changed in how we think about this. First of all, we care about revenue growth we care about profitability. We care about both.

And, as I said before, we're not in a business to lose money or cross subsidize or any of these things. Regarding margins, we really look at every incremental profit $1 that creates shareholder value. And, really focused on these profit dollars rather than the percentage margins.

Many of the new opportunities that we may be exploring, whether it be hardware, whether it be play, whether it be -- many of these will have different margins in our core business. But, they actually offer great huge revenue pools, huge margin pools in absolute dollars.

And then, create much shareholder value and, in many cases, with Larry and the product area leads, great synergistic value between the products to create these great experiences. That's basically the mindset that we apply at it. And, we track them independently and together and make sure that we actually deliver continued revenue growth and profit growth. So, that's the mindset at which we apply.

And, don't read in my comment that we're not focused on our core business. It remains our core business. The core is the core is the core and it continues to give us both revenue and oxygen profit to fuel our growth as well. So, that's the balanced answer to your question.

JUSTIN POST: If I could follow up?

PATRICK PICHETTE: Yes, yes.

JUSTIN POST: Is there anything in there that may be operating right now at negative gross margins that is intransitory in nature?

PATRICK PICHETTE: I wouldn't comment on a specific product by product. But, it's clear that if there are timing issues, if there's a product that is actually in investment mode and at the beginning of its investment curve, you know that you're actually investing in it for the timing of future profit. We do that too.

You can imagine our very first customer in Kansas City, right, the P&L for that day was negative. But, that's not why we did Kansas City. We did Kansas City because we knew as a city it was going to be very profitable.

So, there's clearly products that have, because of the timing investment moments that actually show, will show, negative. But, not because we want them to be negative, just because of where they are in their investment phase. So, that's how we think about it. Thank you for your question. Jamie, let's go to the next question, please.

OPERATOR: Brian Pitz, Jefferies.

BRIAN PITZ, ANALYST, JEFFERIES & COMPANY: Thanks. Nikesh, you briefly mentioned PLAs. We continue to see that format in Search and recently we noticed integrated deals and offers into that format. Any additional color on the impact from PLAs in the quarter? Larry, regarding product search, I guess more broadly, do you think users will be able to purchase items without ever leaving the search results page at some point? Thanks, so much.

LARRY PAGE: Thanks, Brian. I'll take the second question first. I think to the extent, obviously, we can streamline your process of doing transactions or fulfilling any task, that's a good thing.

I think in the trial we're doing in the Bay area with same day delivery you can buy things very easily and get them delivered in a couple hours, which is a pretty great experience. We definitely look at any ways we can find to really improve our user's experience. Nikesh, do you want to take over the PLA parts?

NIKESH ARORA: Yes, as Larry mentioned we're trying to get the user experience to be better and better. And, as we've talked in the past, things are moving from tend to a link to entity level search where people are searching for specific entities and they expect response as a specific entity when doing that search.

You think about PLA in the broader context, when people search for something they like to get their answer. If it's a product they're searching for, of course, PLA satisfies that requirement. We are signing up tens of thousands of merchants who want to share that data with us, who want to make that data visible as part of Google Search. We think this is a good thing.

Again, as we provide more and more PLA information, obviously, it has an impact on people's clicking of those links. So, the long-term that should have a positive impact on click-throughs on various ad formats. But, for now, it's too early to talk about the impact of those on the overall numbers that we have.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thank you for your question, Brian. Jamie, let's go to our next question. We have time for a couple more.

OPERATOR: Gene Munster, Piper Jaffray.

GENE MUNSTER, ANALYST, PIPER JAFFRAY & CO.: Good afternoon. Question on the Motorola X phone, I know you haven't said a ton about it, but there has been some talk that you're going to be aggressively marketing this.

Can you just talk a little about this relationship you have between having the Motorola X phone be enough of a success that you make a statement but not enough of a success that you end up corrupting or impacting your Android partners? So, talk about that relationship. Thanks.

LARRY PAGE: Thanks for the question, Gene. I think nothing about what we said has changed. We operate Motorola independently. You can see the level of work that's gone on there to operate that business.

I think the team's been doing a great job, as we mentioned. I think they're working hard on making great products and I think we're real excited about it. I think they're excited about it. And, obviously, you'll get to try it out pretty soon.

GENE MUNSTER: Do you feel that the incremental investment, is it going to be -- it's been rumored to be $500 million. Is it something in that range?

LARRY PAGE: Are you talking about -- I guess people have been speculating about marketing and so on. I think that, obviously, we're going to -- we're operating Motorola independently. We're running it much the same way you would run any business like that. And, I think we're doing things that are normal for that business. I think probably too much has been made over those things.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thank you, Gene, for your question. Okay, we have time for one more question. So, Jamie, can you give us the last question.

OPERATOR: Thank you. Richard Kramer, Arete Research.

RICHARD KRAMER, ANALYST, ARETE RESEARCH: Thanks, very much. One for Larry and one for Patrick. For Larry, given the recent launch of YouTube subscriptions and then also music services, how widely do you see Google expanding into subscription based services in the future?

Do you see this in three to five years as something that would be a meaningfully-sized segment that would rival network in size, for example? For Patrick, since you've had questions about Motorola, being excited about it is nice but the business has lost nearly $1 billion on a GAAP basis in the last three quarters.

So, can you give us some sort of time scale for achieving returns here? And, I know you mentioned you're just looking for absolute profit dollars. But, what's the ultimate gain for Motorola in terms of contributing to Google's profit base or even just to distribute more widely Google services? Thanks.

LARRY PAGE: Yes, the question about subscription services, I think, like we said, we're really excited about the play music subscription being really well received. I love using it. I think we're always looking for ways to meet our users' needs better. And, obviously subscriptions are one way to do that.

So, I'm sure over time we'll try to meet our users' needs better and have our products in that area. I don't have anything to announce at this time there. On the Motorola question, Patrick, you want to take that?

PATRICK PICHETTE: Sure. I think the Motorola question has to be put into context of two things. One is what we originally paid for Motorola and all the assets we acquired and the benefits we got out of that acquisition because there wasn't only a short-term financial play, there was a number of strategic issues. We're very pleased with the divestiture of the home business which generated quite a bit of cash over the last -- in Q2.

I think you have to put this conversation in the context of the entire acquisition for which we're really pleased. And, we also are incredibly proud of what the team has accomplished in the last year in having now created this great entity under Dennis who is now lean and mean with 5,000 employees focused on the future and really pounding away on the next generation of products.

I'll leave it to the coming quarters to really demonstrate the new Motorola that's showing up. And, you'll see that in the coming weeks, actually. Larry, any last comments before we close?

LARRY PAGE: No, I want to thank everyone for spending so much time with us today. And, we will see you all next quarter.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Jamie, I'll let you close the call. Thank you, everybody, for your time.

OPERATOR: Thank you, sir. Again, we do thank everyone for their participation. That does conclude today's conference. Please, have a good day.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
goog : Google Inc.
   IN
iappsp : Cloud Computing | i8394 : Computer Services | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | i8395464 : Internet Search Engines | iint : Internet/Online | itech : Technology
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | uk : United Kingdom | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020130725e97i006bt
  


 HD
 Q1  2013 Google Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
9,947 words
   PD
18 April 2013
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©013 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to Google Inc. first-quarter 2013 earnings conference. At this time all lines are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will be given at that time.

   TD
(Operator Instructions)

As a reminder, today's conference is being recorded. I would now like to turn the conference over to your host, Willa Chalmers, Senior Manager, Investor Relations. Please begin.

WILLA CHALMERS, SR. MANAGER IR, GOOGLE INC.: Thank you, Sean. Good afternoon, everyone, and welcome to today's first-quarter 2013 earnings conference call. With us are Larry Page, Chief Executive Officer; Patrick Pichette, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Nikesh Arora, Senior Vice President and Chief Business Officer. Also, as you know, we distribute our Earnings Release through our Investor Relations website located at investor. Google.com.

So please refer to our IR website for our Earnings Releases, as well as the supplementary slides that accompany the call. You can also visit our Google+ investor relations page for the latest Company news and updates. Please check it out. This call is also being Webcast on investor. Google.com. A replay of the call will be available on our website later today.

Now let me quickly cover the Safe Harbor. Some of the statements that we make today may be considered forward-looking, including statements regarding Google's future investments, our long-term growth and innovation, the expected performance of our businesses, and our expected level of capital expenditures. These statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially.

Please note that these forward-looking statements reflect our opinion only as of the date of this presentation. And we undertake no obligation to revise or publicly release the results of any revisions to these forward-looking statements in light of new information or future events. Please refer to our SEC filings for a more detailed description of the risk factors that may affect our results.

Please note that certain financial measures that we use on this call, such as operating income and operating margin, are expressed on a non-GAAP basis. And have been adjusted to exclude charges related to stock-based compensation. We have also adjusted our net cash provided by operating activities to remove capital expenditures, which we refer to as free cash flow. Our GAAP results and reconciliations of non-GAAP to GAAP measures can be found in our earnings press release. With that, I will turn the call over to Larry.

LARRY PAGE, CEO, GOOGLE INC.: Hi, everyone. Thank you for joining us. It's great to be on the call this afternoon. If you are listening online, I hope you liked our warm-up video. I heard they had a great time making it. Okay. We had a really strong start to 2013, with Q1 revenue up 31% year on year to $14 billion. I want to give a big shout-out to the sales teams that made this all possible. We tend to focus on product and engineering, but our business organization is tremendously strong. They are Google's unsung heroes.

Over the last two years, we worked hard to increase our velocity, improve our execution, and focus on the big bets that will make a difference in the world. Take Google Now. Our goal is to get you the right information at just the right time. Launched nine months ago, Now provides boarding passes, delivery updates and traffic conditions without you having to ask first. In this quarter, we added movie tickets, nicely packaged with directions to the theater.

I am also excited about our Voice Search momentum. Looking for the nearest pharmacy? Just ask Google for directions and we'll deliver them instantly, no typing needed. And you can now ask conversational questions like -- do I need a jacket this weekend? Voice commands are going to be increasingly important. There's just much less hassle to talk than type. So in this quarter we launched Chrome Smart for Web Speech APIs. Developers can now easily add voice recognition into their Web apps. We expect to see a lot of innovation there.

The velocity around Google Play is tremendous. It's a big bet, and one that's fundamental to the success of the Android ecosystem. In our first year, we have signed partnerships with all the major movie studios, music labels and publishers. And our digital content is available in over 20 countries globally, 7 of which we launched in Q1, including India and Mexico. And last week we released a beautiful new [VY] with better recommendations, bigger images, and a simpler way to buy things.

Play is already a great product and we are improving it at a rapid rate. As devices multiply, it's really important that our products work seamlessly, whatever devices you're using at the moment. It's why I love Google Play. The ability to buy books, apps, movies, or songs, and have them instantly available on your Android devices, even when you buy it on the Web. When you switch devices while reading, your book opens exactly where you left off.

In the same way, we need to make advertising across devices really simple for our customers. Online advertising has developed in very device-specific ways, with separate campaigns for desktop and mobile. This makes arduous work for advertisers and agencies. And means mobile opportunities often get missed. So, in February, we launched Enhanced Campaigns, a significant upgrade to AdWords.

Nikesh will talk more about that in a moment. But our goal is simple -- to enable advertisers to focus on their audience and the message, while we dynamically adopt their campaigns across multiple devices. I have been very pleased with the rate of progress so far. We're smoothly moving a huge advertising system and ecosystem on a dime.

In today's multi-screen world, the opportunities are endless. Think about your device. Battery life is a challenge for most people. You shouldn't need to carry around a charger with you to make it through the day. If your kid spills their drink on your tablet, the screen shouldn't die. And when you drop your phone, it shouldn't shatter. There is a real potential to invent new and better experiences. Ones that are much faster and more intuitive. So, having just seen all those upcoming products myself, I'm really excited about the potential there. In just under a year, they have accomplished a lot. It has impressive velocity and execution.

I want to finish out by talking a little bit about the future. We invest the vast majority of our resources and time in our core products, as well as our big bets like Chrome, YouTube and Android. But, as CEO, it's also super important to keep focused on the future. Companies can tend to get comfortable doing what they've always done, with a few minor tweaks. It's only natural to want to work on the things you know. But incremental improvement is guaranteed to be obsolete over time, especially in technology, where history has shown that there's a lot of revolutionary change. So a big part of my job is to get people focused on things that are not just incremental.

Take Gmail. When we released that, we were a search company. It was a leap for us to put out an e-mail product, let alone one that gave users 100 times as much storage as anyone else. It was the same with Android. And it's why we're investing in what appear to be speculative projects to you today, such as self-driving cars. We found that with ambitious goals and a committed team, you can make progress pretty quickly. The best people often want to work on the biggest bets. And there's not much competition because no one else is crazy enough to try.

We started Google Fiber because Sergey thought it would be great to show how high-speed Internet access can improve people's lives. Three years later, our first homes are live in Kansas City. And over the last two weeks we have announced plans to roll out the service in Austin and Provo. And just this week, after three years of development, we started handing over Glass devices to developers.

I get chills when I use a product that is the future, and that happens when I use Glass. Someday we will all be amazed that computing involved fishing around in pockets and purses. There's so many opportunities in the world to create technology that makes people's lives better. We are still only at 1% of what's possible. We are really just getting started. And that is why I'm so excited to be here working with our Googlers to take our Company to the next level.

Thank you. And now I'll turn the call over to Patrick for some detail.

PATRICK PICHETTE, SVP & CFO, GOOGLE INC.: Thank you, Larry. Good afternoon, everybody, and thank you for joining us. So let me dive in by reviewing the details of our overall business financial performance. Here we go. Our total gross consolidated revenue grew 31% year over year to $14 billion in Q1. The overall business was down 3% quarter over quarter, driven by the softness in Motorola Mobility segment specifically. Were it not for currency fluctuations, our consolidated revenue would have grown 33% year over year, or an additional $96 million. But the quarter-over-quarter impact was really immaterial.

Google standalone gross revenue grew 22% year over year to $13 billion, and was flat quarter over quarter. Google website revenue was up 18% year over year to $8.6 billion, flat quarter over quarter, with strength across most major geographies and industries. Google network revenue grew 12% year over year to $3.3 billion, and down 5% quarter over quarter. The quarter-over-quarter impact was largely due to the effect of advertising policy decisions implemented during Q4 and in Q1, as well.

Other revenue grew 150% year over year to $1 billion, and 27% quarter over quarter, driven by Play Store sales, which also includes both hardware and digital commerce sales. It's worth noting that a significant part of the sequential other revenue growth is due to the implementation of an accounting change in our Play app revenue recognition policy. Currency fluctuations had an immaterial impact to Google standalone revenue, both year over year and quarter over quarter.

Turning now to Motorola Mobility, gross revenue was $1 billion. We continue to be very pleased with the velocity of change at Motorola, as Larry mentioned. For example, this week we closed our sale of the home business, as well as the Flextronics outsourcing agreement. We're seeing a lot of progress across the board in the transformation of Motorola Mobility. We're excited about the future. But I wish to remind everyone that results from that segment will continue to be variable.

At Google, global aggregate paid click growth was strong, with up 20% year over year, and in fact up 3% quarter over quarter. Our aggregate cost per click was down 4% year over year, as well as down 4% quarter over quarter. Currency fluctuations had a minimal impact on Q1 CPC growth. And similar to last quarter, as I mentioned, the advertising policy change affecting network revenue continued to lower the aggregate paid click growth, and improved CPC growth on a year over year basis. In addition, our monetization metrics continue to be impacted by the usual factors that I've covered many times, including geo mix, channel mix, property mix and product changes.

Turning now to geography and our geographic performance of Google standalone business, we continue to see steady performance across the US, the UK, and the rest of the world. In our earnings slides, which you'll find on our Investor Relations website, you'll see that we've broken down our revenue by US, UK and rest of world, to show the impact of FX and the benefits of our hedging programs. So please refer to those slides for the exact calculation.

Revenue from the US was up 20% year over year to $5.8 billion. The UK was up 21% year over year to $1.4 billion, which includes $20 million of benefits from our hedging program. And in fixed FX terms, the UK actually grew 20%. Non-US revenue, excluding UK, accounted for 44% of our total revenue, or $5.7 billion. Up 24% year over year. Which includes a $15 million benefit from our hedging program. And in fixed FX terms, the rest of world, in fact, grew 27%.

So coming back at an aggregate level for total consolidated business, other cost of revenue was $2.9 billion in Q1, excluding stock-based compensation and Motorola restructuring. Our non-GAAP operating expenses totaled $3.9 billion, which also exclude our stock-based compensation and Motorola restructuring. And our non-GAAP operating profit was $4.2 billion in Q1, resulting in a non-GAAP operating margin of 30%.

For standalone Google, traffic acquisition costs were $3 billion, or 25% of total advertising revenue. Other cost of revenue was $2.1 billion, excluding $99 million of stock-based compensation. The year-over-year increase was primarily driven by equipment costs, including costs associated with the hardware sales on Play, carrier OEM revenue share, driven by the implementation of our accounting change in our Play app revenue recognition policy that I mentioned a minute ago, and content acquisition costs.

Non-GAAP operating expenses were $3.5 billion, excluding stock-based compensation of $556 million in this case. And non-GAAP operating profit was strong at $4.4 billion in Q1. Resulting in a non-GAAP operating margin for the Google segment of 34% for standalone. Lastly, depreciation and amortization expense on property, plant and equipment for standalone Google was $520 million for this quarter.

At Motorola Mobility, our total non-GAAP operating expenses, including cost of revenues, were $1.2 billion. And keep in mind that intangible amortization of expenses attributed to the standalone Google and Motorola Mobility are, in fact, included in these non-GAAP measures.

Of the $315 million in intangible amortization expense in the quarter, $153 million was a result of the acquisition of Motorola, of which $116 million was allocated to Google and $37 million was allocated to Motorola Mobility. And, as a result, the non-GAAP operating loss for Motorola Mobility was $179 million in Q1, resulting in a non-GAAP operating margin of negative 18% for that segment.

Let me turn to headcount for the consolidated business. In fact, it was roughly flat for Q1. Keep in mind, the consolidated headcount includes the Motorola Home, and Home comprised roughly one-third of the total Motorola headcount. Standalone Google added about 1,200 people. And in total the consolidated Company ended the quarter around 53,900 full-time employees.

Many of you may have noticed our effective tax rate that was very low at 8% in Q1. Please note that this quarter the rate reflects a recognition for the full-year benefit of our 2012 federal R&D tax credit, which Congress extended, but only retroactively in January of this year. So there was a catch-up for the full of 2012 in Q1. Additionally, there's been the usual mix shift of earnings between domestic and international subsidiaries that continue to impact our tax rate.

Let me now turn to cash management. Other income and expense was $134 million, which reflects interest income and realized gains on investments, offset by the continued impact of our FAS 133 expense from our hedging program. For more details on those OI&E, again please refer to the slides that accompany this call on our IR website. We continue to be happy with our strong operating cash flow at $3.6 billion.

CapEx for the quarter was $1.2 billion, versus last quarter at $1 billion. And the majority of CapEx spend was related to production equipment, data center construction, and facilities-related purchases. Our free cash flow was also strong at $2.4 billion. And please note that cash flow and CapEx both include the home business for now.

Before I hand it off now to Nikesh, I want to say a few words about investing in our future and preparing for the growth of our businesses. The success of our products and our continued strong performance, as portrayed by Larry's comments, continue to support our optimism and our confidence to continue funding these strategic growth areas. These include not only products like Search or YouTube and Android or Chrome, but also our infrastructure, as well.

With that, I'll hand it off to Nikesh, who will cover in more details our business performance in the quarter. And after his remarks, we'll open up the phone for questions. Nikesh, all yours.

NIKESH ARORA, SVP & CHIEF BUSINESS OFFICER, GOOGLE INC.: Thank you, Patrick. Our business is continuing to perform well. We had over $13 billion in Google standalone gross revenue. Our core business was strong across search and display, including the continued rise of mobile. I'm particularly pleased by the positive growth we have continued to achieve in display. Let's review a few key highlights for the quarter before we talk in more depth about multi-screens, which Larry alluded to in brand advertising momentum.

From a regional perspective, growth was fairly stable across the board this quarter. Asia continues to be our fastest-growing region. Southern Europe remains stable, despite the continued economic woes in the region. Auto has been a strong sector for us globally. And the cold spring in the UK has led to stronger growth in the retail sector there. Our shopping business continues to expand, with over 1 billion products listed. This quarter we rolled out product listing ads in Europe, and also brought them to mobile devices.

I want to mention our policy efforts that ensure we're working with only the highest-quality partners, which Patrick has already alluded to. We want to make sure we protect users from having bad experiences with websites and online services. So we've tightened our policies and enforcement in a few areas, like downloadable software applications. While these steps may impact network revenue in the short term, they are essential in the long term for a better, safer Web experience for users. And to encourage brands to invest more in online marketing in our network. We strongly believe what we've done benefits us in the long term.

Shifting gears to our enterprise business. The enterprise business continues to experience strong growth across pretty much all products, regions and industries. While our SMB segment is growing steadily, we're seeing significant increase from large global organizations. In fact, 58% of the Fortune 500 are now actively using a paid enterprise cloud product from Google.

Recent wins include ANA from Japan, the largest airline; Woolworth, with over 200,000 users, Australia's largest retailer; BMW who uses Google Places and Street View in their ultimate driving machines; and the country of Malaysia. They're adopting Google apps for 10 million students, teachers and parents. They're going to deploy Chromebooks to primary and secondary schools nationwide.

Moving on to our marketing efforts. Our marketing team continues to execute flawlessly. They've helped Chromebooks increase their footprint in the US, expanding to more than 1,000 Best Buy stores nationwide. Which pretty much doubles the previous number of stores we had. The Samsung Chromebook has been the top-selling laptop on Amazon since its launch. We rolled out Nexus 4 in Russia, Indonesia, Brazil, Mexico. And expanded in the US to 3,000 T-Mobile stores.

I want to focus the rest of my remarks on two continuing trends that present great opportunities for us. First, the shift to consumers to a multi-screen lifestyle. And, second, the ongoing movement of brand dollars online. As Larry has said, consumers are accessing content interchangeably on many screens throughout the day. Our clients are hungry to advertise where consumers are. In fact, 95% of our clients have campaigns that run across multiple screens.

In February, working with Susan and [traydar's) team we rolled out advanced campaigns to make it easier for clients to manage and measure campaigns that reach people across devices. Marketeers will be able to deliver ads that are more relevant to the user's context, using features like offers and proximity bidding. And they'll be able to do a better job of measuring mobile conversions.

Enhanced Campaigns is an important long-term bet that will help marketeers. We know this is a big change for many of our advertisers. And we've invested tremendous amounts of time and effort into making the transition as smooth as possible. In the first two months since launch, more than 1.5 million campaigns have already been upgraded to Enhanced Campaigns. And these clients are beginning to see great results. We expect to migrate all campaigns that we manage by the end of the current quarter. While this is a complicated task, it's a great example of our focus on flawless execution on behalf of our customers.

Now on to brands. We see great remarketing success stories every day. Nissan Mexico's biggest launch of the year, the Pathfinder, featured 13 video ads in the new approach to remarketing in AdWords for video. Nissan connected their stories by making sure that users who watched their videos were shown a new one each time. Newer brand-friendly formats, like our expandable Lightbox ads, our Reserve inventory solution, are helping clients create beautiful experiences with sight, sound and motion.

Over the past year, the number of advertisers using our Google Display Network Reserve option has increased four-fold. Now we have two-thirds of the top 100 Ad Age brands using those products. This is really helpful in developing deep partnerships with our clients, especially in the branding arena. For example, we're now working directly with Adidas in Germany on a new global branding budget.

Brands are also continuing to see the power of YouTube to help them reach consumers across screens. Today more than 1 billion people are finding the channels they love on YouTube every month. Users are now watching over 50 million more hours a day compared to a year ago, a 50% increase.

We had a record year for our Super Bowl Ad Blitz program. Views, votes, watch time and advertiser participation were all up from last year. We saw increased engagement across all screens. We had 1.3 million total hours of watch time of commercials on Ad Blitz. That's the equivalent of the length of 325,000 Super Bowls. More brands are also using YouTube as a strategic part of their campaign to reach a younger generation. For example, Chevrolet built awareness of the Chevy Sonic with made-for-digital videos supported by YouTube and Google ads. All contributing to the successful launch of this all-new sub-compact car.

Our work in brands also helps our publisher partners. Our Ad Exchange supports all formats, all screens and hundreds of publishers, and continuing to grow well. We're offering new solutions for publishers, like Google Consumer Surveys and Google Play, to help them make money from their content.

In conclusion, I want to thank all Googlers who helped deliver a great quarter and drove our business. This industry is moving very fast and the opportunities are numerous. We're lucky to have such skilled and hard-working employees to help drive Google and our partners in the future. With that, thank you, Patrick.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thank you, Nikesh. Sean, if you don't mind, we'll start the Q&A section now. So I'll ask you to give us the instructions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions)

Mark Mahaney with RBC.

MARK MAHANEY, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Two questions, please. First, Patrick, you mentioned this accounting change, but could you just give us a little bit more detail on what that accounting change was versus Play. And then could you talk about the TAC trends? I know it's just one part of your business but they seem to be moving in different directions, on your own site, continuing to rise pretty dramatically, but on your network partner sites, falling off pretty significantly. Can you just help us think about what that should look like going forward for both of those segments? Thanks a lot.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Yes, thank you for your question, Mark. Let's take them in row. First, on the apps revenue recognition policy. Let me explain what happened there. I'll use it with an example, if you don't mind. The way we did it is we changed the revenue recognition. So if you say you buy an app for $1 on the Play Store, $0.70 of that $1 will be paid to the developer and does not impact our P&L. It didn't before and it still doesn't today. So that hasn't changed.

In the past, though, we would have booked the remaining $0.30 on a net of payments to carriers and OEM, and then booked that as gross revenue. Beginning if Q1, however, the entire $0.30 is now booked as gross, and the payment to the carriers and the OEMs are now booked on other cost of revenue.

So that is the big change that has happened. And basically the reason why we did this is, as we were looking through the second half of 2012, we were seeing these used to be immaterial numbers for us, and then when we saw through the second half 2012, we decided to tune our accounting policies, and made that change in Q1. So that's the issue of what's going on, on the revenue recognition. So you'll see the impact, both on gross and then, as I said, on other cost of revenue. And then you get the net. So on a net basis, it doesn't change.

On the TAC issue that you've raised, Mark, the answer is pretty simple. TAC has dropped overall because of the change in our ad policies that we've done through Q4 and Q1. In pushing hard on implementation of our ad policies to the benefit of the user, the impact of that is actually that it lowered our network revenue, but it also lowered our TAC, which is tied to add AdSense partners in that role.

On our own Google sites you'll have noticed that it continues to grow. And it grows because mobile grows. So the volume of mobile in our mix is driving TAC to go up. So, overall, TAC is down for the quarter on an aggregate basis. The ad policy changes have driven them down. And then our mobile for our own sites continued to drive them up. But that's a good story because it means mobile is really continuing to be on fire.

So that's the pieces of the puzzle. Thanks for your questions because it wasn't that easy to understand at first. But I hope that clarifies the point. Thank you, Mark. Sean, to our next question, please.

OPERATOR: Ben Schachter with Macquarie.

BEN SCHACHTER, ANALYST, MACQUARIE RESEARCH: Larry, in your prepared comments you spent quite a bit of time discussing the non-core future products. I was wondering if you could talk about any changes to the amount of resources being invested in Google X and these products. And also, can you tell us how you determined the appropriate size of the investments in these various teams and products? And then just quickly, separately, Knowledge Graph, just in general if you can give us an update on the progress and how you measure that progress internally. Thanks.

LARRY PAGE: Thanks, Ben, for the questions. I feel like every time I say anything I get this question. I think, honestly, my job as CEO is to get people to do those things. If you look at most companies, they never do anything different. And eventually they run into problems for that reason. So I think that's the common failure mode. I think that the reality is it's pretty hard to invest significant amounts in these things because actually it's difficult to get people to do those things.

We have nothing to say differently about our general philosophy of 80% on our core things. I said that in my remarks. Basically, that we're still focused on our core products, on our big bets. And that's clearly the vast majority of our resources. We'll add resources to the new things as we're able to, and as they show success. But as an investor -- I am a big shareholder of Google -- I'm certainly not worried about the expense of that because I don't think -- like I said, it's not easy to spend that much money on the new things. I'd be more worried that we don't those things fast enough and build on the revolutionary change that happens in the technology industries.

On the Knowledge Graph, I think there's been tremendous progress there. We've done internationalization. There's quality improvements. And we're improving the kind of questions we can answer, as I mentioned, about weather, other things. That happens from improvements to our Knowledge Graph. And I'm very excited about that. And I think -- we still have big investments there and you'll still -- for a long time we'll continue to see improved products there. Can we have our next question?

OPERATOR: Anthony DiClemente with Barclays.

ANTHONY DICLEMENTE, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: First question for Larry. I'm just wondering if you could given us your thoughts on the impact of Facebook Home for Android, just given some have talked about the possible impact on engagement with other Android apps. And then secondly, and I guess this would be for anyone who wants to take it, I think investors are just wondering about Enhanced Campaigns that you talked about launching in February. Should we expect any bumpiness or any near-term dislocation from your advertisers who are starting to become accustomed to Enhanced Campaigns onboarding to that platform? With the understanding of the long-term opportunity, of course. Thanks.

LARRY PAGE: Thanks, Anthony. I'll take the first question. Maybe I'll give the second one to Nikesh. I think that Google really focused on building and creating great Android experiences within the strong ecosystem that we have. And it's really great to see developers really focused on and building for Android. So I'll give Nikesh the second question about the Enhanced Campaigns. But I'm certainly, as I mentioned, I think it's going pretty smoothly. I'm pretty excited about it.

NIKESH ARORA: Thank you, Anthony. As Larry just said, it was very complicated. We had to train a sales force around the world and to launch simultaneously and work with our product team. But so far the feedback we've gotten from advertisers, it is positive, because it basically takes away a lot of work from them. And we've been able to migrate 1.5 million campaigns to Enhanced Campaigns. We also have some great suggestions from our advertisers about what we should do to make it better. And we're beginning to implement those. We're hoping that towards the end of this quarter we should have migrated all of the campaigns which are done separately as mobile, and separately at the desktop, as combined, and really offer them the benefits of location context screens, all with one campaign. So effectively, I think in the long term that should be better ROI.

ANTHONY DICLEMENTE: Okay, thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Justin Post with Merrill Lynch.

JUSTIN POST, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: My question just is the mobile impact on the Business. It looks like your top-line revenues have somewhat stabilized. But how is the transition to mobile impacting your high-level revenue growth over a period of quarters, and also your margins? Maybe you could give us a little help on that.

And then maybe, Larry, could you address the concern that constantly comes up about people using apps versus Google Search. Obviously, the disclosures you've given suggest revenue on mobile is going at or above industry. But are you seeing any pressure from app usage versus search usage on mobile? Thank you.

LARRY PAGE: Thank you, Justin. I think maybe I'll take the first one -- the second one first. We always get this question about apps versus Google Search. I'm not super concerned about that issue. I think that people use also apps on the Web over many strong sites and so on. So we've been dealing with that issue for a long time.

I think, fundamentally, search is an amazing thing for publishers and software developers and everybody else. And we deliver a lot of traffic and a lot of users to things. And so I think, in general, the information wants to be found. And we're working hard to make sure that the user experience is great, and that we're delivering people into the right places. So, I think I feel pretty confident on that, in the future that we'll get through that just fine. So, second half of your question?

PATRICK PICHETTE: The first part of the question was about top line, mobile, versus other impacts on the business in margins. Let me just jump in on this one quickly. And it's really about the new reality where we have all the multi-screens. And Larry talked about this at length at the last earnings call, where the reality now is it's not about mobile or tablets or desktop. It's about this unified life that you have where you're always connected. And the question is, are you giving the best answer all the time, following me throughout my day. And that's why, in fact, Enhanced Campaigns is a great signal of that. Where you're saying let's find the right ad at the right time, and the right answer at the right time for you throughout your day.

So I think that, rather than to ask which small piece, part is going to contribute plus or minus, the real question is, are we growing the pie of your day with Google. And in the long term, are we really contributing to create the best answers, both for the advertisers and for your users. And that's really what we're actually pushing for. So I think that this trend really presents to us enormous opportunities.

And when people ask about what's going on with TAC, Patrick, what do you think the impact of CPC on a very specific basis, I think that that's the wrong way to ask the question. The real right way is the excitement we have about helping you throughout your day on all your devices. And the pie grows for everybody. And that's the right way to ask the question. So, thanks for your question on that, Justin.

JUSTIN POST: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Carlos Kirjner with Sanford Bernstein.

CARLOS KIRJNER, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & CO.: Thank you for taking my question. I have two. First, on Google Fiber, setting aside the user experience for those who get it, how do you expect Fiber to have major impact, given that it would take many billions and several years to pass something like 20 million US homes? And after all of that time and money, you would be at best a mid-sized provider in a market that accounts for less than 50% of your current business.

Secondly, on the future of search, Larry you mentioned voice commands in your opening remarks. We already get voice output with Jelly Bean. Put this together with Google Now and Knowledge Graph, and we see a future where you'll get the answer to your question sometimes before you ask it. How do ads come into this view? How do you generate revenues in the world like this where you guys seem to be going to? Thank you.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Why don't I jump on the first question, and then I'll let Larry answer the second one. Look, on Fiber, I think it's really simple. It's very early days. We're totally excited about delivering a great user experience, with faster Internet speed. And gigabit, as Larry said, with Sergey's quest a few years ago, gigabit speed over 100 times faster than the average American. That is a great user experience. And it's really about pushing for speed and writing the new chapter, the next chapter of the Internet. So for us, I think we really are excited about this and that's really where we're focused on. On the second question, I'll let Larry give his comment.

LARRY PAGE: I'm glad you're very ambitious too, because the fiber industry's not big enough for you. So I applaud that. I think we would love to find businesses much bigger than our entire current business to invest in. But I think there's only a very small number of such companies that even exist. So I think we look at places where we can provide a lot of -- on fiber, we look at places where we can provide products that can make really big difference in people's lives. And we can make a lot of money and resources doing it. And I think it certainly meets our criteria. Although, as Patrick said, it's very early days.

On the voice stuff, and knowing what people want before they ask for it, and how do we make ads on that, how do we make revenue and ads in that work. I'm not worried about that at all. We've been doing this for a long time. And, in fact, we really view -- the reason we've been successful at doing advertising is we view that as another source of information.

The search ads that we show have to be very relevant and make sense to you at that moment. And the better job we can do in providing you information, even without you asking for it, the better we can also provide commercial information to you that people are excited about promoting to. And I think that's actually a huge opportunity for us. We know all about making things more efficient, about getting the right information to the right people at the right time. And that's all going to improve in the kind of world that you were talking about. Can we have our next question?

OPERATOR: Scott Devitt of Morgan Stanley.

SCOTT DEVITT, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: I had two, please. The first one for Nikesh. You recently discussed the opportunity for online advertising to exceed 50% of total advertising in the next five years. And you referenced video and Internet-connected devices as catalysts. It's a big number. Just wondering if you could talk about that in a little more depth, and the way Google products actually serve as catalysts for that change. And then, secondly, for Larry, could you just discuss the transition in Android management, and what exactly Andy Rubin's going to be doing now that he has a new role? Thank you.

LARRY PAGE: Nikesh, do you want to take the first one?

NIKESH ARORA: Sure. Scott, thanks for your question. I think what I was referring to was the fact that I believe in the next few years we will see connected TVs everywhere. And we'll be able to address TV using IP. When that begins to happen, I think the products we have in place, where we can dynamically serve ads which are more personalized, which look more like information on display platforms or video platforms, is going to be very relevant.

So, I think over time the television industry shifts to a more addressable, more personalized, more IP-addressable type of platform. And I think we're well positioned in that space, given our large focus and emphasis on brand, given our huge technology effort that Susan's team does around display and video, and really getting our sales force working really well with various brand advertisers around the world. So, we're preparing for that eventuality, and we hope it comes sooner than later.

LARRY PAGE: On the management change question, I think, as we've already said, we've really exceeded the crazy ambitious calls we dreamed of for Android. It's the most used mobile operating system in the world. Very big thanks to Andy for that. He really decided it was time to hand over the reins and start a new chapter at Google. We actually haven't said what that is. And I'm not going to make news today on that.

And that actually going forward, Sundar is going to lead Android in addition to his existing work on Chrome and apps. And he has a great talent for creating products that are really technically excellent, yet easy to use. And he loves a big bet, too. We've said all that before, but that's -- I think we've had very smooth transition and I'm personally excited about the future.

OPERATOR: Ross Sandler of Deutsche Bank.

ROSS SANDLER, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Guys, I had a couple questions about Google Glass. Larry, we had a chance to try out Glass a few weeks ago and we think you guys really nailed it. So congratulations to the team. But can you talk about the overall strategy with Glass? How do you plan to build out the ecosystem for third-party developers? What do you see as the biggest functions that Glass could address for users? And then do you expect the $1,500 price tag to come down to a level that's more mainstream, or is this likely to remain a higher-end luxury device? Thanks.

LARRY PAGE: Thanks, Ross. I'm glad you're excited about Glass. I am too. I would say it is early days on the product. We're just handing over small numbers so far. I think that we're probably pretty good at third-party ecosystems, with our experience on Android and a bunch of other areas. So I'm not too worried about that. There's been lots of speculation on that. I would just say it's all early. And I think the price tag was set for developers for our early test. We don't have any news to announce there. But it's clearly -- I'm not sure I'd call it a luxury price but certainly a pretty high price.

I think that, what I like doing with my Glass, I think, what do people do on Glass, I find the photo taking and the video, phone calling, click messaging, directions, all to be pretty amazing experience. And that's some of the core functionality we built into the device. We're excited to really get it out to some developers and have other people create some amazing experiences with it which we haven't thought of yet. But, like I said, it's still early days but I think it's very exciting. Our next question, please.

OPERATOR: Brian Pitz of Jefferies.

BRIAN PITZ, ANALYST, JEFFERIES & CO.: You mentioned expansion in the PLA ad format during the call. Would you give us a sense for how maybe CPCs on these PLAs compares to the overall average and what kind of trends you're seeing? And perhaps any comments on the current mix of CPC versus cost per action or conversions. And any kind of incremental data on how they perform. Thanks.

NIKESH ARORA: Hi, this is Nikesh. So, on PLA, so far we're really excited. We have over 1 billion items in the product listing ads and we just launched it in Europe. It's too early for us to share numbers around that topic, but so far all I can say it's been neutral. There has been no impact that we'd like to share at the current moment.

BRIAN PITZ: Great, thanks.

OPERATOR: Douglas Anmuth with JPMorgan.

DOUGLAS ANMUTH, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: I just want to ask two things. Nikesh, you talked about Southern Europe being stable in terms of macro. I'm just curious if, over the last three months, if you have seen any changes at all in macro across the US or Europe. And then, secondly, Patrick, if you could just talk about how you think about the longer-term margins on the Google segment, that would be helpful. Thanks.

LARRY PAGE: Nikesh, you've spent a lot of time in Europe. You have nice weather there.

NIKESH ARORA: Nice weather just more recently, Larry. Q1 was pretty dismal from a weather perspective. Douglas, thanks for the question. I think, as I said, Southern Europe has been stable because there has been concern at the macro level in Southern Europe. But our Business has been stable. I think the macro conditions have been going on for a while.

As far as the US, Europe I don't think there was anything out of the ordinary that we saw as it relates to our Business results. And our teams continue to execute. And we continue to engage with advertisers across the board, large and small. And we haven't seen any shifts in those trends.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Let me jump on the second part of the question. Look, it's very clear. We care about revenue growth. We care about profitability. And, as we've said before, we're not in business of money losing businesses. So regarding margin, for us what really matters is every incremental profit dollar creates shareholder value. And we're focused on growing these profit dollars rather than the specific of the average aggregate margin. So, if you have business for us that can be a $20 billion business, that has a much lower margin than ours but contributes a $2 billion to the bottom line of the Company, what's not to like? Especially if it's rather capital-light.

And these are the areas that we're, in addition to our core business, exploring. And, by the way, they have a great symbiotic relationship. When you have devices that are magical, and that feed within our core software businesses, there's this kind of magical relationship, as well as that continues to enhance our offering. So, the real trick there is to keep focused on dollar margin pools, dollar margin in revenue, and then not worry too much about where the aggregate shows up because it's all good for the shareholders.

LARRY PAGE: We should say, of course, we always look for businesses that have very high margins and high revenues, of course, too. We'll have to take our next question.

OPERATOR: Heather Bellini of Goldman Sachs.

HEATHER BELLINI, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: I just had a couple of questions. One, I was just wondering if you could talk a little bit about what you guys can do to help prevent Android fragmentation. If you could give us your views there.

And then on Fiber I had a follow-up. If maybe you could go beyond the obvious, which is the obvious benefits that people are getting in the cities that you already rolled out to. If you could maybe help us think about the types of services or offerings that you guys see as being possible as this becomes more broadly deployed.

And then, lastly, especially given your prior comments on capital-light, I was just wondering how we should think about your appetite for CapEx for Fiber. Thank you.

LARRY PAGE: Thanks, Heather. I can talk a little bit about Android. This is Larry. I think that -- I've actually had the pleasure recently of using a bunch of different Android phones from different manufacturers, and the experiences are a bit different. Maybe the return, the menu back button is on different sides or things like that. There's differences like that which are somewhat fragmented. But I find they have a pretty great overall experience. And that there's a lot of innovation and that the platform's moving really quickly. And that's how we designed it.

In the negative sense, that's fragmentation. In the positive sense, it's innovation and flexibility for the different users of the Android ecosystem. So, I think actually it's working pretty well. We obviously evolve the ecosystem to make sure -- making sure that users get a really great experience. And making sure we're paying attention to all that and making sure it all works well. But I think we're actually doing a pretty good job.

I think on Fiber -- you had some questions on Fiber -- I think Patrick can address that.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Yes. I think that the thesis is not only about the future but it's really a lot about today. Speed matters today. When you wait for three seconds to get your YouTube video today with your current provider, that is a terrible answer. And we think that Fiber and the services we offer in Kansas City today actually goes a long way to solving a lot of today's frustrations, independent of tomorrow's.

In addition to that, our Kansas City offer that we have is already quite differentiated in offering an amazing service. For example, with storage, with 2 terabytes of storage available and another in the cloud, that really not only is about speed but it's about a package that says you should have abundance. And with abundance, then the third piece, which is I think where you were going, is the excitement of what the developer community can actually create for a world that is, in fact, at blazing speed and with an abundance of storage.

So I think it's already today answering a big need. It's already today quite differentiated. And it is just laying the path for what should be the next change of the Internet. And I think that you see it in Kansas City, with so many developers moving to Kansas City, to actually create this coming world. It just gives you a glimpse of all the opportunities that are out there. That's why we're very excited about it. I think it's --.

HEATHER BELLINI: That's great. Thank you. And I was just wondering if you could helps us think about the appetite for CapEx.

LARRY PAGE: We're going to look at these businesses, as we look at any business, and make appropriate investments. I think that, obviously, we know what's going on with that business. And like I said, it's early days. We're excited about it. So, we'll continue to evolve that.

But as I said earlier, too, it's difficult. Even if you wanted to spend a lot of money on these kind of things, I think it's tough and difficult to do that. So, I think that's something to keep in mind. Things have a natural rate of growth that makes sense and we've done pretty well with that over time.

HEATHER BELLINI: Great, thank you.

OPERATOR: Stephen Ju with Credit Suisse.

STEPHEN JU, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Larry, can you give us some sense of how much incremental engagement you think you can see for Google's products with new form factors, like Glass and Watches, as we look out over the next three to five years? And how transportable is Android across these new form factors in terms of getting OEMs and other operators beyond just the smartphones and tablets to adopt it?

And, Nikesh, thanks for the number of campaigns on the Enhanced Campaigns platform. Now wondering what percent of your advertisers do you think have optimized their sites for content delivery across multiple devices. And when do you think we'll get greater ability for attribution across mobile and desktop? Thank you.

LARRY PAGE: Thank you, Stephen. That's a lot of questions. I think we've got them all straight. Let's see.

So, incremental engagement from Google's products from Glass and so on, and Watches and things. I think that computers are now a pretty big part of people's lives, and I think that's increasing as it gets more and more useful. And so the amount of time -- you only have 24 hours in a day, so there's some limit to that. But I think, more importantly, the usefulness of your engagement is going to increase.

Right now, while you're just kind of using your computer or your phone or your tablet or whatever, and you're bored, maybe you'll be less bored and more productive, or enjoy what you're doing more and see more meaningful engagement. And I think that can result in much better business results and happier people and all that. Obviously, Glass runs on Android. So it's been pretty transportable across devices, and I think that will continue. Nikesh, do you want to address Enhanced Campaigns a little bit?

NIKESH ARORA: Yes. Thank you, Stephen, for your question. I think what's important to note is before we launched our Enhanced Campaigns journey in February, we had been very actively working for the last year-plus on our GoMo campaign, which was Go Mobile. Because, clearly, the first part of anybody leveraging their mobile website is to have one. So we've spent a lot of time working with our advertisers and partners out there, both to get them online and also to get them mobile. And I think the Enhanced Campaign with them was a logical step beyond that, because once you have mobile capability, once you have mobile sites and desktops, we want to make sure that you can get best ROI across those things.

We're still working on this. We're still down the journey. We have a significant number of early adopters onto Enhanced Campaign that, as I said, we intend to get them all migrated in the next few months, in the next 10 weeks, actually. So that should be pretty good.

In terms of future, I think we also alluded to the fact that some of the things we're offering them are things like proximity bidding and offers. It's more about first getting them to leverage their current capabilities. But then also giving more context and more location, which hopefully generates more ROI in the future.

STEPHEN JU: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Neil Doshi with Citigroup.

NEIL DOSHI, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Larry, could you talk a little bit about online/mobile to offline attribution and what Google is doing to help bridge that gap and to help our advertisers realize ROI? And then, Nikesh, can you just give us an update as to how far you are through the ads changes policy with your network partners? Is that pretty much all done now, or is there more to go there? Thanks.

LARRY PAGE: Thanks, Neil, for your question. I think maybe Nikesh is the expert on both these. I think our Business has always been about attributing advertising spending and results accurately. And the whole success of our Company is really based on that one thing. So we've been paying a lot of attention to those kind of questions. Nikesh, take it away.

NIKESH ARORA: Neil, thanks for the question. And thank you, Larry. What's the important part is we have been working, and we have hundreds of studies now, working with our advertisers to actually look at both the offline and online impacts. One of the recent things we did is, online to store, is we help people understand how their online campaigns are driving more and more people into store, which is more an offline activity.

We also look at the entire customer journey. We look across media effectiveness to show how you can run a campaign in the offline world, how you can add online to it, and what kind of attribution that gets you in both offline media, as well as online media. So we do a bunch of stuff like that through our research teams, working with external research organizations. I think we have a reasonably robust practice there working with our advertisers.

In terms of the update in terms of the ads policy changes, we have implemented all of our ads policies. We obviously have worked with almost all of our network partners. They understand our policies. Many of them have made changes. I think we should be done with most of that transition. But, of course, the effect of this policy change will continue to happen throughout the rest of the year.

LARRY PAGE: Okay. I was going to thank everyone for spending so much time with us today. And we look forward to hearing from you in the next quarter.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Sean, we'll let you close the call. Thank you, everybody, for joining.

OPERATOR: Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your participation in today's conference. This does conclude the conference. You may now disconnect. Good day.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
goog : Google Inc.
   IN
i8395464 : Internet Search Engines | iint : Internet/Online | itech : Technology
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | uk : United Kingdom | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020130425e94i006y1
  


 HD
 Q4  2012 Google Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
11,400 words
   PD
22 January 2013
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©013 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day, and welcome, everyone, to the Google Inc. fourth quarter 2012 earnings conference call. This call is being recorded. At this time I would like to turn the call over to Willa Chalmers, Senior Manager of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.

   TD
WILLA CHALMERS, SR. MANAGER IR, GOOGLE INC.: Great, thank you, Jennifer. Good afternoon, everyone, and welcome to today's fourth quarter and fiscal year 2012 earnings conference call. With us are Larry Page, Chief Executive Officer; Patrick Pichette, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Nikesh Arora, Senior Vice President and Chief Business Officer. Also, as you know, we distribute our earnings release through our Investor Relations website located at investor.google.com. So please refer to our IR website for our earnings releases, as well as the supplementary slides that accompany the call. You can also visit our Google+ Investor Relations page for the latest Company news and updates. Please check it out. This call is also being Webcast at investor.google.com. A replay of the call will be available on our website later today.

So let me quickly cover the Safe Harbor. Some of these statements that we make today may be considered forward-looking. Including statements regarding Google's future investments, our long-term growth and innovation, the expected performance of our businesses, and our expected level of capital expenditures. These statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially. Please note that these forward-looking statements reflect our opinion only as of the date of this presentation. And we undertake no obligation to revise or publicly release the results of any revision to these forward-looking statements in light of new information or future events. Please refer to our SEC filings for a more detailed description of the risk factors that may affect our results.

Please note that certain financial measures that we use on this call, such as operating income and operating margin, are expressed on a non-GAAP basis. And have been adjusted to exclude charges related to stock-based compensation. We have also adjusted our net cash provided by operating activities to remove capital expenditures, which we refer to as free cash flow. Our GAAP results and reconciliation of non-GAAP to GAAP measures can be found in our earnings press release.

With that, I will now turn the call over to Larry.

LARRY PAGE, CEO, GOOGLE INC.: Happy New Year, everyone, and welcome to our earnings call. Thank you for joining us this afternoon. We ended 2012 with a strong quarter. Revenue was up 36% year-on-year, and 8% quarter-on-quarter. And we had $15 billion in revenue for the first time last year. Not a bad achievement in just a decade and a half.

We've talked a lot about excellence and velocity over the last year. While many claim it's my nature never to be satisfied, we've actually made real progress creating more beautiful and more intuitive products. Take Search. The perfect search engine would understand exactly what you mean, and give you exactly what you want. Our Knowledge Graph brings that much closer. Search for Nikola Tesla, and you'll get information about this great inventor that is beautifully displayed right from the results page. His basic bio, books he wrote, his photo. No extra work needed. It will even recommend information about other inventors, such as Edison and Marconi, that you can easily browse through. Again, right from the results page.

And last quarter we launched the Knowledge Graph in seven new languages, including Spanish, Japanese and Russian. This is hard work. It's about way more than translating the words on the page. Google has to understand millions of different entities, as well as their meaning and context.

I'm also excited about the progress we've made with Voice Search. Here in your car -- sadly it's still a car you have to drive and it's not electric -- and you're running out of gas. Just pick up your phone and ask Google for directions to the nearest gas station and you'll be on your way immediately. It's a great example of how we can take the hassle right out of your life.

Our long-term investments in Google Maps have really paid off. The team has worked tremendously hard to create the most accurate and comprehensive maps in the world. Driving country by country may have seemed crazy a few years back. Today it's totally obvious because the location is core to your Search experience. And with Google Maps for iOS, we have reinvigorated our product. It's more intuitive and beautiful, and users love it. Google Maps for iOS was downloaded over 10 million times in the first 48 hours. In fact, six Google Apps were included in Apple's App Store best free apps of 2012, including YouTube Chrome, Google Search and Gmail.

I've always believed that computers should do the hard work so you can get on with the things that matter in life -- living, learning and loving. So it's exciting to see our progress with Google Now. Launched earlier in the year, it gives you information before you even have to ask. It will now proactively provide your flight times or your boarding pass or directions to your next appointment. It will even suggest interesting places to visit nearby.

As we discussed on the last earnings call, we now live in a multi-screen world. People carry a super computer in their pocket all the time. In fact, we feel naked without our smartphone. And many users have more than one device -- a laptop, a phone, and a tablet. We are living in uncharted territory. It's a new kind of computing environment. Everyone is really excited about our technology and spending a lot of money on devices, driving faster adoption than we have ever seen before.

It's been a long time in computing since we had this rate of change. Probably hasn't happened since the birth of personal computing. That's why we put so much focus on devices. They've been one of our biggest bets in the last few years. Along with the software to go with these devices, Chrome and Android. Our goal here is to push the user experience forward, so you've got the best of Google in one easy-to-use package.

Samsung Chromebook, which we launched in October, for the amazing price of $249, was a holiday highlight. I love mine. It's super easy to use and it almost maintains itself. Open a Chrome tab on your phone and everything syncs on your laptop, with no extra effort required. We also launched two new Nexus devices to rave reviews. Nexus 4 and Nexus 10. In six months, after we first unveiled it, Nexus 7 continues to define the seven-inch tablet category, making many best-of-2012 and holiday gift lists. Clearly there's work to be done managing our supply better, as well as building a great customer experience. And that is priority for the teams. But considering all the excitement over the holidays for our devices, it is clear there is a tremendous opportunity delivering great value with amazing and simple user experience.

Google Play, another big bet, is on fire. The growth is tremendous. This quarter, we signed deals with Time as well as Warner Music Group. So we now provide content from all of the top Hollywood film studios, music labels, and magazine publishers. We have not even reached Google Play's first anniversary.

Many of you have questions about Motorola. And Patrick will go into details of how we're accounting for the business so that you can get your models right. I am excited about the business. And in today's multi-screen world, the opportunities are endless. Think about your device. Battery life is a huge issue. You shouldn't have to worry about constantly recharging your phone. When you drop your phone, it shouldn't go splat. Everything should be done faster and easier. There's real potential to invent new and better experiences. Our CEO of Motorola, Dennis, has built a world-class team. And they're working on these opportunities. It's still early days but I am excited about the innovative way they're approaching product development and the speed of their execution. And they recently signed an agreement to sell Motorola's Home division for $2.35 billion.

2012 was an amazing year for Google and we are all set for a great 2013. I am incredibly optimistic about the opportunities we have as a technology company focused on user benefits. Every day, I come to work excited about more and bigger opportunities. And every day, we work to have more and better organized Googlers -- those are our employees -- improving the execution and overall capabilities to build world-changing products. I know it sounds funny, but with the ambitious plans we have, we are only just getting started.

Our biggest challenge in this area is focus. We face so many opportunities. It's always important to thoughtfully invest in the right areas where we can have the greatest impact. We don't want to spread ourselves too thin. But I'm quite optimistic that, as we get better and better at managing our product areas, we will be able to continue to grow our ambitions. That's why I'm here. And that's one reason why Googlers love working at Google. Googlers remain our greatest assets. And we're working hard to recruit and retain the best employees.

We've had a great start to the year by being named Fortune Magazine's, The Best Company to Work for in the US, for the fourth time. We've worked hard to create a company where everyone is part of the family. And where the work is challenging and rewarding. So we're really happy to get that recognition. I want to finish by thanking all of the Googlers who made this possible.

And now, I'll turn it over to Patrick. Thank you.

PATRICK PICHETTE, SVP, CFO, GOOGLE INC.: Thank you, Larry. Good afternoon, everyone, and thanks for joining us. So let's dive in by reviewing the detail of our overall business financial performance. As we noted in a blog post last week, the Motorola Home business has been presented separately as discontinued operations in our financial tables. This makes typical quarter-on-quarter or year-on-year comparisons a little more challenging this quarter. But I will provide some color throughout my comments. So without further adieu, here we go.

Our gross total consolidated revenue grew 36% year-over-year to $14.4 billion, and 8% quarter-over-quarter. As I mentioned, this figure excludes the Motorola Home revenue. Had we included Motorola Home, gross total consolidated revenue would have been $15.2 billion, a growth rate of 44% year-over-year, and 8% quarter-over-quarter. Google's standalone gross revenue grew 22% year-over-year to $12.9 billion, and 12% quarter-over-quarter. Our Google website revenue was up 18% year-over-year to $8.6 billion. And up 12% quarter-over-quarter. With strengths across most geographies and industries. Our Google network revenue grew 19% year-over-year to $3.4 billion, and 10% quarter-over-quarter. Finally, other revenue grew 102% year-over-year to $829 million, and 24% quarter-over-quarter, driven by Play hardware and content sales. And were it not for fluctuations in currencies, Google's standalone revenue would have, in fact, grown 24% year-over-year.

Turning to Motorola Mobility. Its gross revenue was $1.5 billion for the quarter. And once again, had we included the Home business, the total gross revenue for the combined Motorola entities would have been $2.3 billion. As Larry mentioned, we're really pleased with the velocity of change at Motorola. But it's still at the very beginning of the MotorolaGoogle story. No one should be surprised if results from these segments are variable for quite awhile, as we restructure the business. And, remember, we inherited a 12- to 18-month product pipeline that we're still working through.

At Google Now, our global aggregate, paid click growth was strong, up 24% year-over-year, and up 9% quarter-over-quarter. As we've said many times, there are several factors that impact the CPC click dynamics, including FX, Geomix, product changes, et cetera. But this quarter specifically, it's worth mentioning that we implemented some policy changes that lowered our paid click growth, improved our CPC growth, and lowered network revenue for the quarter. Nikesh will speak more about this in a few minutes. But the bottom line is that these policies are part of many constant changes that are focused on what's good for the user and advertisers. So we believe they're good for Google's business in the long term, too.

Our aggregate cost per click was down 6% year-over-year, and up 2% quarter-over-quarter. Once again, remember that currency headwinds also had a moderate year-on-year negative impact on CPC in Q4. In fixed FX terms, in fact, aggregate CPC would have been down only 4% year-over-year, and up 1% quarter-over-quarter.

Turning to geographic performance of Google standalone business, we continued to see strong performance in the US and the UK. While the economic situation of Southern Europe continues to impact our rest of world growth somewhat. In our earnings slides, which you can find on our Investor Relations website, you'll see that we've broken down our revenue by US, UK, and rest of world, to show the impact of FX and the benefits from our hedging program. So please refer to those slides for the exact calculations.

Revenue from the US was up 20% year-over-year to $6 billion. The UK was up 23% year-over-year to $1.3 billion, which includes an immaterial real benefit from our hedging program. In fact, in fixed FX terms the UK grew 22%. Non-US revenue excluding the UK accounted for 44% of our total revenue, or $5.6 billion. Up 24% year-over-year. And includes a $36 million benefit from our hedging program. And in fixed FX terms, rest of world grew 28%. So now if I come back to an aggregate level for the total consolidated business, our other cost of revenue was $3 billion in Q4, excluding SBC and Motorola restructuring. Our non-GAAP operating expenses totaled $4.1 billion, which also exclude SBC and Motorola restructuring. And our non-GAAP operating profit was $4.3 billion in Q4, resulting in a non-GAAP operating margin of 30%.

For standalone Google, traffic acquisition costs were $3.1 billion, or 25% of total advertising revenue. Our other cost of revenue was $1.8 billion, excluding $101 million of stock-based compensation. The increase year-over-year was driven by equipment costs, including the costs associated with the hardware sales on Play. But also content acquisition costs and our data center costs. Non-GAAP operating expenses were $3.6 billion, excluding stock-based compensation of $576 million. And finally, non-GAAP operating profit was $4.4 billion in Q4, resulting in a non-GAAP operating margin of 34%.

One last note. Depreciation and amortization expense on property, plant and equipment for standalone Google was $493 million for this quarter. At Motorola Mobility, total non-GAAP operating expenses, including cost of revenue, were $1.7 billion. And keep in mind that intangible amortization expense attributed to the standalone Google and Motorola Mobility. They are included in these non-GAAP measures. And of the $289 million in intangible amortization expense this quarter, $153 million was a result of the acquisition of Motorola. And of which $116 million is allocated to Google, and $37 million allocated to Motorola Mobility. And as a result, the non-GAAP operating loss for Motorola Mobility was $152 million in Q4, resulting in a non-GAAP operating margin of negative 10% for that segment.

Let me turn to headcount. Headcount for the consolidated business increased by roughly 300 people in Q4. Keep in mind that consolidated headcount includes Motorola Home until it is divested, and Home comprises roughly one-third of the total Motorola headcount. Standalone Google added about 1,400 people. And in total the consolidated Company ended the quarter at around 53,900 full-time employees. Our effective tax rate this quarter was 18%. The change from last quarter reflects the mix in shifts of earnings between domestic and international subsidiary and hedges.

Now let me turn quickly to cash management. Other income and expense was $152 million for the quarter, which reflects realized gains on investments and interest income, offset by the continued impact of our FAS 133 expense from our hedging program. And for more details on OI&E, please again refer to the slides that accompany this call on our IR website. Our operating cash flow was very strong, $4.7 billion. CapEx for the quarter was $1 billion versus last quarter of $872 million. The majority of CapEx spent was related to production equipment, data center construction, and facilities-related purchases. We're very pleased with our free cash flow, which was at $3.7 billion. And please note that cash flow and CapEx both include the Home business for now.

So finally, the success of our product and our continued strong performance, as portrayed by Larry's comments, continue to give us the confidence to fund our strategic growth in areas such as Search, YouTube, Android, Chrome. As well as in our overall infrastructure with a view to the long term.

And I'll hand it off now to Nikesh, who will cover more details of our business performance in the quarter. And after these remarks we'll open it up for the phone lines and questions.

Nikesh?

NIKESH ARORA, SVP, CHIEF BUSINESS OFFICER, GOOGLE INC.: Thank you, Patrick. As Larry and Patrick have mentioned, our business had a strong quarter with a $12.9 billion revenue in Google standalone alone. We're very pleased with our year-on-year growth of 22%. I think our advertising business is firing on all cylinders. Companies of all sizes continue to embrace online advertising. And the major players are increasing their investments. In fact, here is an interesting tidbit. Across Search, Display, YouTube and more, our top 25 advertisers are now spending an average of over $150 million per year. I'm delighted with that number.

Our core business continues to be strong. Our investments in Mobile and Shopping have passed the holiday season test with flying colors. As Larry mentioned, our vision is for Search to understand exactly what you mean and give you exactly what you want on all devices that you live with throughout your day. Talking about all devices, our queries from a wide range of new devices are continuing to power our overall growth in Search volumes. Distinctions between devices, form factors are becoming less meaningful, particularly between desktop, laptops and tablets.

Search performed very well last quarter during Black Friday and Cyber Monday. We saw a greater proportion of queries with commercial intent. And higher RPMs in areas like retail, computers and electronics. We launched a set of features to make shopping more stress free and more fun. I don't know if you've had a chance to look at it, but there's some interesting things like 360-degree toy imagery. And integrating retailers' promotions and discounts into our Shopping product.

Our investments in Search, particularly in Mobile and Shopping, are really helping clients. Let me give you an example. Front End Audio -- this is a company that offers recording and live sound equipment sales. Sometime in mid September they deployed product listing ads. Within weeks these ads were accounting for about 15% of their total sales. They also tripled their click through rates, and also reduced their cost per conversion by 75% to 80%. This is great for us because this is a product we believe is in the interest of the end user. It is a great product for Front End Audio. Improves their economics and improves our economics. Major retailers like RadioShack and Home Depot use our Mobile App to reach shoppers across devices, including click-to-call, click-to-map. For Home Depot, Mobile commerce sales have quadrupled in a year.

Patrick mentioned some changes in policy and enforcement. These enforcements had the effect of reducing ad clicks on the sites of certain AdSense for Search partners. These policy updates are part of our ongoing work to improve user experiences on Google. On sites and services using Google Search. Since these policies improved the experience of both users and advertisers, we firmly believe they are good for our business in the long term.

Switching gears to YouTube and Display. We continue to make strong progress here. Video is a key language that brands speak so it continues to be a key area of focus for us. Video is now baked into the core of all of our products, whether it's Search, Display, Mobile and, of course, YouTube itself. YouTube is well-positioned for the changing viewing habits of today's multi-screen world. The site's new redesign is focused on channels. And that has led to a major increase in engagement. Indeed, in 2012, viewers watched over 4 billion hours of video on YouTube a month. And it's now available across over 400 million mobile devices, gaming consoles and connected TVs, in addition to your desktop.

YouTube creators continue to wow and attract audiences. Outside estimates say that video, which I'm sure all of you have seen of Psy, his hit song, Gangnam Style, now the most watched YouTube video of all times, it generated over $8 million in online advertising deals. YouTube partner revenue has doubled for the fourth consecutive year. And thousands of channels are now making six figures annually.

YouTube is not only home for creators but it's also home for major brand advertisers. On YouTube, our top 100 global advertisers spent over 50% more in 2012 than they did in 2011. Clearly this is a strong signal of the power of YouTube to reach audiences. What's interesting is a significant factor in the growth of YouTube has been our TrueViews capable ad format. Agencies and marketers are seeing real benefits. You only pay for the ad if viewers watch them. In fact, 70% of our in-stream ads are now TrueView formats. And this quarter TrueView came to XBox, the iPad and the Wii.

Putting all our advertiser solutions together is really helping us deliver great returns and develop close relationships with major clients worldwide. Like McDonald's who, this quarter, launched an Always On Search and YouTube campaign to increase customer awareness and favorability towards their brand across all channels. In Q4 we signed a new global deal with L'Oreal, under which we were to promote their brands using Google digital offerings across the world in Display, Search, YouTube and more.

While our complete solution for marketeers not only applies to businesses but we saw this in this quarter's 2012 election, from the Presidency to local races. Google's Mobile Search, Video and Measurement products were at the center of a huge number of Democratic, Republican and issue-based campaigns. Our election advertising revenues increased by 5 times over the 2008 elections. Here is an interesting statistic for you. In 9 of the top 11 senate races for the US, the candidate who spent more with Google was elected.

2012 was not just a big year for advertising. It was a big year for our Publisher business, as well. Working closely with major publishers from Weather Channel to Time Inc., bringing the DoubleClickGoogle ad technology stack together is really helping our clients increase their direct, indirect and programmatic CPMs. Our solutions for media companies now go well beyond advertising, encompassing paid surveys, subscriptions and more.

That was about our business, our ad revenue. Other highlights looking at the geographic breakdown for our ads business, growth in Northern Europe was robust, with strength in Germany and the UK. Asia performed steadily. In other regions we're very pleased that America has maintained steady growth, driven by strength in Mobile and YouTube. Southern Europe was somewhat softer, as it continues to face macroeconomic challenges.

Our enterprise business continues to grow at an impressive pace. It's been creating traction across some of the largest companies of the world. New customers this quarter include Nintendo, the Canadian Broadcasting Company, Shaw Industries, Vosco, Randstad, and Hyundai to name a new. And after signing in May, the US Department of Interior moved more than 70,000 employees to the Cloud during Q4, making it the largest federal agency to date using Google Apps.

I think in summary we've had a good quarter. Our revenues continue to grow. Clients continue to see value with us and value in online advertising. We have been able to build significant new revenue streams in Mobile, YouTube and Display. And clearly a [rising one] in enterprise. We weathered various economic storms. And are benefiting from the shift in advertising spend toward digital media. Plus there's continued strong execution and great client relationships.

I want to echo Larry's congratulations to our teams around the world for all their hard work in delivering a great quarter and a stellar year in a tough environment. Thank you.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thank you, Nikesh. With that I'm going to turn it over to Jennifer who will open the lines for the Q&A. Jennifer, all yours.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions) Carlos Kirjner with Bernstein.

CARLOS KIRJNER, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & CO.: Two questions. Last quarter, we saw a material sequential decline of Google website revenue growth rate of more than 400 bips. Even after accounting for FX, this quarter we see another deceleration, I think, of about 250 bips on an FX-neutral basis in the Google website's revenue line. All of these in a context where YouTube is growing really fast based on your comments. So what have been the major drivers of this continued deceleration of Google websites? And should we expect similar growth rate declines going forward? And, secondly, on TAC, it seems that TAC for distribution as a percentage of Google websites revenues grew less than what we had seen earlier in these last several quarters in 2012. What has driven destabilization of this distribution TAC? And how should we think about distribution TAC in the future? Thank you.

LARRY PAGE: Thank you, Carlos for the detailed question. I'm going to turn that over to Patrick for hopefully a good answer.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Yes, thank you. So Carlos, on the first one, you are right that there's quite a bit of noise because of FX on the sites year-over-year between Q3 and Q4. But overall I think that we're very pleased with the growth around 20%. You're right that in the last quarter there was a bit more headwinds than this quarter. But overall the core search business is doing well. And driven, really, by the strength in mobile. And we're obviously additionally pleased with the YouTube business, particularly the watch page. So despite the fact that there's quite a bit of FX noise in there, and FX noise does carry over to sites, overall I think that we're very pleased with the overall growth.

In terms of TAC, I think that that's the case where, obviously, our mobile revenue is growing. And it is having impact on our mix shift. And that's really the fundamental trend that you see in TAC, rather than a change in the TAC rate of any particular partner. So that's really what's going on there. But I think, as we said in the previous calls, we think of TAC in the way, there's a really positive story in TAC which is, it is distribution and it's worth paying for. This is the positive side of our business, having much more distribution of our apps across. And that's true also for mobile. So we're really thrilled that all of the mobile is thriving to the extent it is. And remember that, finally, TAC is not a new phenomenon for us. We've always dealt with distribution partners. And we'll continue to experience and manage it to make sure that it drives revenue and profit for both parties in a balanced way. So nothing new here, but really excited by the trends.

CARLOS KIRJNER: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Ben Shachter from Macquarie.

BEN SCHACHTER, ANALYST, MACQUARIE RESEARCH: Two questions for Larry around the notion of answers not linked. The first on Knowledge Graph. Can you just give us a high level view of where we are in terms of its implementation and how widely it's rolled out? And specifically, how, if at all, it impacts the economics on Google's businesses. And then, second, on Google Shopping, the PLAs and the interface changes, I think, significantly improve the user experience, but a consumer still needs to leave the site to transact. Do you anticipate a mechanism where users can actually transact on Google Shopping without having to leave? As you said, no extra work needed. Thanks.

LARRY PAGE: Ben, thank you for the questions. I think we're still -- we rolled out Knowledge Graph very recently and I think we're still in the early stages of that. I think that I mentioned some of the internationalization work that we did, which is hard work. And I think we'll continue to do that. I guess we're still at 1% or something of where we should be. So I'm really excited about what we can do in the future. I think the economics point, I think, that the way we look at it is we provide much better answers for people where they [accrual] the business. We increased the number of times that you might want information because you know you're going to get great answers. Or increase the different modalities, you can get answers like voice or mobile or so on. So I'm super excited about that. And then, generally, we monetize those things.

So I don't have a comment on the specifics of that, but I think we are quite excited about that. The Knowledge Graph does run on the right-hand side where the ads also run. So there could be some short-term impacts on that. But I think the primary thing is getting people better answers is really good for our business.

Google Shopping, I guess you're asking about product listing ads. I think that we're also in the very early stages of that. We just rolled out Google Shopping. We've seen tremendous uptake from merchants and from users. And I expect the quality of the site, the ease of buying things will improve over time. And I'm really excited about that. I'm not going to comment on details about that but we're always focused on making our user experience better. So can we have our next question, please?

OPERATOR: Scott Devitt with Morgan Stanley.

SCOTT DEVITT, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Following up on Ben's comment regarding answers versus links. Larry, you were recently quoted, I think, saying about the possibility of having a system that could basically vacation plan for you. And now that you own ITA and Frommer's and Zagat, and you've built out Travel Explorer, or Flag Explorer and HotelFinder, can you talk a bit more about the strategy with travel in terms of the problem you're trying to solve there relative to the historic experience of Google sending you off site for depth of experience? And then, secondly, Patrick, I think last quarter you gave the FX neutral CPC down 8%. I'm wondering if you could give that same number for this quarter. Thanks. For the fourth quarter.

LARRY PAGE: Yes, Scott. That's a great question. I'll take the first part. And I think that we've always done a very good job of sending people to the right places. And I don't think that being able to answer very complex information needs means necessarily that we wouldn't send people off to other sites. So I think the main thing for us is to be able to understand a complex problem. Like, I think I gave some example like finding a hotel that's near -- if you're carrying out logistics for the flight, for a vacation you might take, and the hotel and the activities you wanted to do, solving that all at once in the way a human assistant might be able to do. And you still might use other parties to do that transaction.

So I don't necessarily believe the assumption of your question. But we are looking at those things. That was more of an example. I think Google's aspiration is to be able to do that for any area, not just travel. And we've been working with as many companies as we can, and trying to organize the world's information. And where we needed to acquire companies, we've done some of that. Or work with other companies or make deals or whatever we need to do. So we're trying to be practical about it. And I think we do have some amazing assets in travel, in mapping, and so on. And I think those things will pay off for us in the future, providing great experience. So Patrick?

PATRICK PICHETTE: Yes, Scott. The answer to your specific question is, on the CPCs have, on a year-over-year basis, they've gone down 4%. And on a quarter-over-quarter basis, they're up 1%. That is on a fixed FX adjusted. And that compares to the minus 6% and plus 25 that I mentioned a couple minutes ago. Thanks for your question, Scott. Jennifer, let's go to our next question please.

OPERATOR: Mark Mahaney with RBC.

MARK MAHANEY, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Two questions. Could you talk broadly, Larry or Nikesh, about Google Maps and where you think the monetization of that is today versus where you think it potentially could be? And then, Larry, I think you were quoted recently with some comments on competitive products out in the market. Any comments in particular on graphical search as it's been announced? And to what extent you think that's complementary or competitive with Google's core search? Thank you very much.

LARRY PAGE: I can say a little bit about maps. This is Larry. I think that people are always focused on monetization of maps. But it's important to think about, for me, to tell you the history of maps. We started working on maps a long time ago because we thought it was critical to your search experience. To actually finding what you're looking for. And if we look at our component of queries that are geographically related, it's a huge number, and always has been. And so, again, to understand those queries, we have to understand where things are in the real world. And so that's been always a core part of our main web search. And we already make quite a bit of money on web search. And I already told you that was a significant amount of queries. So actually we already make quite a bit of money on maps in that way, as a part of our core business. And a significant part, which really led us to make those investments.

We're in the early stages of monetization on the maps themselves. And I think we're doing some interesting things there. I think we'll continue to do that. And I think it's likely to be a great source of revenue, but still in the early stages on the maps But on the search side, we have significant revenue already.

I think you're asking about Graph search, which was recently announced. I think that, when we think about search, our mission has been to organize the world's information and make it universally accessible and useful. And we've been at that for quite awhile. And made investments in all sorts of areas, like maps I just mentioned, which turned out to be really important. And that's the way we think about it. There's knowledge search, there's all sorts of investments we've made, gathering different kinds of data, making sure we have everyone's data. And we'll continue to do that.

And that business has changed a lot. Like 10 years ago, what you thought Google should do is almost unrecognizable compared to what it does now and the number of things that it understands. So we see just tremendous opportunity to make better products for users that really understand their needs. And really grow opportunity. You look at voice, for example, which we've also made huge investments in, the importance of that to mobile for finding things. I mentioned you can ask where the nearest gas station is with your phone while you're driving on your fumes and it will just work perfectly. And so I think we see that as there's just all sorts of aspects to this problem. And we've been very focused on that.

Now is another great example. There's tremendous innovation there. It's actually answering your question before you even think to have the question. And that's pretty incredible. I'm super excited about that. So I feel very confident of our core business of organizing things and finding things, getting people information. And I couldn't be more excited about that. Our next question?

OPERATOR: Anthony Diclemente with Barclays.

ANTHONY DICLEMENTE, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: First for Patrick on Motorola. In terms of the losses which widened in the quarter, I'm wondering if you could contextualize for us the financial direction of Motorola, both in terms of the revenue declining and the growing expenses. I know this isn't something that Google typically does. But just I think it would be helpful for investors if there's any way to put a band or a threshold around what the potential operating losses could be at Motorola.

And then second question for Larry. Larry, around the commercialization of driverless cars, I'm just wondering if you could give us an update on that, and your test that you're doing in Nevada. And then wondering if you could talk about Android as part of that. It sounds like the automotive electronic suppliers are recognizing the importance of Android for the infotainment and systems in those cars. And so maybe you can talk a little bit about that opportunity for Android, as well. Thanks for the question.

LARRY PAGE: So I think maybe I'll take the second half of your question first. I think that, while I would say, also, in Motorola, and then I'll let Patrick fill in, I think we are, like I said, excited about the business. I think that we're really in the early days of Motorola with respect to Google's acquisition of it. And I'll let him give you some details.

I think that driverless cars, I think, obviously, it's still early days there, although I'm really excited about what the team has got done. And what that can mean for ordinary people. And really substantially improving mobility and potentially really reducing the land area that we have to devote for cars, which is incredible amounts in cities. It can really reduce parking. We're looking at that, even for Google, just as a major cost, to reduce our parking costs in our facilities by having the automated cars park more densely and serve more people. And I think those things will be amazing deals.

Android -- I think that we're still -- that's a little bit different than the automated cars, I think. That Android won't be used in cars probably before we get out of automated cars into the mainstream. And I think people are really excited about that due to the incredible success of Android. And we're obviously working with those manufactures to help make that happen well. Patrick?

PATRICK PICHETTE: Yes, just a bit of color on Motorola. First, just to remind everybody, we do care about profitability. And that is our goal, with every one of the areas where we invest. And we've said that before. We're not in the business of losing money with Motorola or even cross-subsiding it. But we are really 180 days into this journey and we've made a ton of progress, including the sale of the Home business. And as I mentioned earlier, also outsourcing our manufacturing. And so much more that has been done, and the restructurings that you've heard earlier in the late summer and early fall.

And I just want to remind everybody that we inherited 12 to 18 months of product pipeline that we have to work through. That's the reality of the business. That's kind of overhaul and then rebuild the new product pipeline. Where Dennis's team has been really focused on in addition to the restructuring. It does take before it shows up.

Having said that, finally, on the financials themselves, Anthony, it's really worth noting that Motorola is also hindered by a portion of the amortization of intangibles due to the acquisition. So the losses that you see are somewhat inflated by this amortization of intangibles, which we've decided to put through the P&L on a non-GAAP basis. So all-in all, when we look at the losses like this quarter, negative $150 million, you take out the amortization, these are not consequential losses relative to either Google or the kind of turnaround we're seeing and the positive momentum. So that's why Larry started by saying we're really optimistic. But it does take time and that's why I'm also saying, be ready for a lot of fluctuations in our P&L over the coming quarters. It's just the nature of the beast when you reinvent a business. Thank you for your question Anthony. Let's go, Jennifer, to our next question.

OPERATOR: Justin Post with Merrill Lynch.

JUSTIN POST, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Larry, I think on your last call, you mentioned that you're impatient with mobile CPCs. Not that they were in a bad place but you wanted to get them higher. Can you talk about progress made in the quarter? And do you feel like you're really making a positive inflection there? Or is that still a few quarters away? And then, as you look at your mobile business as far as the growth of queries, or the growth of revenues, and you look at it relative to maybe M-commerce growth, do you think you're gaining share on the market? Do you feel like your position in mobile is really secure and that you maybe even would be gaining share in mobile and maybe the street doesn't recognize it? Thank you.

LARRY PAGE: Yes, thank you for your question. The mobile business, I would just say I think we're doing very well. I think we have tremendous growth with Android. And I think we're serving our users really well. And we're building amazing products that are getting better at a rapid rate. The rate of improvements is also very high. So I feel pretty comfortable with that. And I focus mostly on our products and assume the usage will follow the great products.

I think that, in some sense, also, we consider mobile an extension of our desktop usage, too. We have built a lot of great products that people use on their desktop, like Maps, which have transferred very well. And I think that one thing I've been amazed by, Chrome on my Android phone, Chrome is just an amazing experience. I don't feel like using my Nexus 4 or other modern smartphones from the latest generation, I think that those phones are almost like using a desktop last year, or something like that. And so I think the experiences are improving a lot, and very quickly. I think we're betting on unchartered territory because of the rapid rate of change in these things. But I'm very optimistic about it. And I think the CPCs will improve, as these devices are improving, as well.

And obviously I mentioned that we are working to simplify our ad system for advertisers in the light of all these changes. And I'm excited about our plans there. I don't have anything to announce today but I am very excited about our efforts there. And I think that we will make rapid progress in that area. So I think that's -- I think I answered both your questions. So maybe we can have our next question.

OPERATOR: Stephen Ju with Credit Suisse.

STEPHEN JU, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: The pace of your headcount increase seems to be moderating, as we take a look back at 2012. And the same goes for CapEx, as well. So, do you feel like you are now at an appropriate level to tackle your three major areas of investment focus? Another way to ask the question is, are there any other large-scale opportunities you have identified that would entail acceleration in terms of your hiring or CapEx? Thank you.

LARRY PAGE: I think -- we run a number of different businesses -- and I think that they all have their different needs. And we're looking at the sum of all those things. So I think it's a little bit hard to predict those things. I think you should ask us to go whatever is necessary to make the best business outcome. Having said that, I've said in the past we have a lot of people, we're growing at the edge of what's reasonable just in terms of scaling. I think that's still the case. It has moderated but I'd also say that we've also slowed our international growth in product development a bit, which is probably having some impact on that. But I'll give it to Patrick for some more detail, perhaps.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Just to comment on the CapEx side. We've always said -- and I think if you go back the last couple of years on CapEx, it has been really lumpy. We've gone from really highs where we were about $1 billion. And then it's gone all the way down to a few hundred million dollars, and now it's gone back up. So it's a real testimony that it is lumpy because as you add -- just to use the example of a data center -- you'll see CapEx because we fill with equipment the data center. But once the data center is full and then we have to put an extension to the data center, or then you're into concrete again and power. So it's just the nature of our business.

Certainly on the core businesses, are quite lumpy. So without giving any guidance forward, we have been, as you've seen in this quarter, $1 billion of CapEx really very much aligned with the excitement we have around our products. Whether they be social, whether they be pictures, all of the areas that you've heard Larry talk about. And so that's why we're fueled, as I said in my comments. We're fueled by the positive momentum we have in many areas of the Company. And we believe now is the time to invest and that's why we're doing it with confidence. Discipline but confidence.

LARRY PAGE: And I'll also just add briefly that when we run our business, we find that it works better if our hiring is reasonably smooth. So we have worked harder to manage that smoothness so that we're not -- we have recruiters in place and hiring staff in place for the long term. And make sure we're providing good consistent business growth there. Just makes us operationally run better. And we've probably been managing that a bit more tightly.

OPERATOR: Ross Sandler from Deutsche Bank Securities.

ROSS SANDLER, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK SECURITIES: Thanks, guys. I've got two questions. First for Nikesh on mobile. And then one follow-up for Patrick on the Google sites' TAC. So Nikesh, what percent of your several million advertising clients are bidding on mobile keywords today? And what percentage do you think have mobile-specific websites enabled already?

And then, Patrick, the follow-up on TAC. The year-over-year growth rate for Google websites' TAC decelerated from 45% to 43%. Subtle but there's probably some organic items in there that are helping it. Is that a function of smartphone installation growth rolling over? Or any partnership agreements or something else? Can you just give us a little color on that deceleration? Thanks.

NIKESH ARORA: Thanks for your question, Ross. On the mobile front, I think it's important to understand that a vast majority of our advertisers have opted into mobile from an advertising point of view. I think Larry said this a few quarters ago, that we slowly have been working over time to try and make it feel like a common experience across multiple screens for advertisers. Because advertisers are more interested in the business benefit of advertising with us as opposed to specifically which form factor or which device they invest with us on. So our teams have been working really hard in the last few quarters to try and get us to a point where we can make it simple for the advertiser. Where they come to us with a business problem and we're able to solve it for them, irrespective of device, irrespective of form factor or property that they are going to have to advertise on. So, from that perspective, I think things are going in the right direction.

As far as specifically how many advertisers have mobile landing pages that they can send their users to, that number is not as much as we would like it. Obviously we've had programs, we've talked about in the past earning calls. Like GoMo where we helped businesses go mobile. So those efforts are bearing fruit. But, broadly speaking, we're happy with the progress we've made, both on getting advertisers to be more mobile sites. And also what we're doing from a campaign management perspective to get more and more campaigns that can run across all devices and form factors.

LARRY PAGE: I'll just add-on the mobile question, we don't necessarily want them to have mobile sites. Sometimes those are too simple. find I get frustrated on my phone sometimes when I hit these mobile-specific sites because I'm using a modern Nexus 4 that can actually deal with the full site. And I just find it confusing. So I think as an industry we need to improve these experiences. And it will take a bit of time. But I'd almost say that we should be designing for mobile the kind of mobile phones that we have now with the state-of-the-art or a little bit beyond. And that those experiences should work on all devices pretty well. So I'd actually like to see us go more in that direction perhaps. Patrick?

PATRICK PICHETTE: Just on my side, I need, Ross, I need you to actually call us after this. Because when I look at our TAC for the Google as a percentage of website revenue, it's pretty stable to us. And every way we look at it, it's pretty stable. So I'm not sure if there's anything you're looking into it that we're missing. But don't hesitate to follow-up with the IR team afterwards. But we don't see any deceleration in any meaningful way on the website side. Thanks, Ross.

OPERATOR: Richard Kramer with Arete Research.

RICHARD KRAMER, ANALYST, ARETE RESEARCH: Larry, a couple quick questions. First of all, just to polish off this mobile and CPC question, how many years do you think it's going to take before CPCs on mobile and desktop are roughly equal, trading off location and display size? And another question, looking broadly at the business, there are a number of geographical markets, like China, where you're simply not able to operate. Do you see any prospect for being able to enter some of those markets in the medium term? Or do you think that the business is still going to be geographically constrained?

And then a quick one for Patrick. Will there be an impairment test coming up on Motorola, especially with respect to the IPR, given the FTC settlement around standard essential patents? Thanks.

LARRY PAGE: Yes, thank you, Richard, for all the questions. I think that's three-fer. I'm not going to make predictions about when they will be equal. I don't think they will be equal. I think probably one will always be bigger than the other, though I'm not clear which way. But I don't think this is a long-term problem. I don't think this is a long time in coming. And I think as I've said before, there's a lot of advantages to mobile.

You already know location accurately. You know you can call somebody easily. You have a camera to hang out to the business. You can be notified instantly. There's just a lot of things about mobile that are amazing opportunities for advertisers and for businesses. So I expect that to revolutionize how people do marketing. And we're working hard on that. And I expect that that will work a lot better for users and for advertisers and businesses. And therefore, more money. We'll be able to generate a lot more money than we do now. Okay, so maybe Nikesh can address China.

NIKESH ARORA: I thought I was getting the mobile CPC question.

LARRY PAGE: Do the second one first, then.

NIKESH ARORA: Okay. I think it is fair to say we do operate in China right now. We have an ad sales business, we have a display business in the market. We know that many users use Android devices in the market. I think what's important to understand is the reason we decided to not operate in China was because we believe that we wanted to make sure that users are able to have unfettered access to our products. And the products where we believe they have ability to access in an unfettered fashion, we do operate in the market.

It's only the ones where they aren't able to access it the way we would like to. In which case, they are able to access it through our operations in Hong Kong. So we think we operate in China, not in the way you might perceive it, but users have access to our services. And there is even a small revenue business that we have in China.

LARRY PAGE: Okay. So, Patrick, will there be an impairment to us from Motorola?

PATRICK PICHETTE: We obviously, every time there's any formal transactions or events that occur, we have to look at our balance sheet and if there's any impairment tests. In the case of Motorola, we don't think there is, actually, right now. And we have no information, even with the standard essential patents, that there's no information right now that leads us to believe that we have to do an impairment test on any of it. Remember that the standard essential patent for Motorola is a very small portion of the entire portfolio pool of patents that we got out of Motorola. So just to put that into context, as well. So thanks for your question, Richard. Why don't we go to the next question, Jennifer.

OPERATOR: Neil Doshi with Citigroup.

NEIL DOSHI, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Can you provide more details around the policy changes that were implemented in the quarter? And whether they will continue to have an impact on CPCs and paid clicks in Q1? And then, also, we were recently at the NRS convention in New York and we saw a demo of the Google Zavers product, where users can click coupons and then use those coupons in the offline retail world. How big of an opportunity is really bridging the online ads with offline transactions for Google? And is this something that's a key initiative as we go into 2013? Thanks.

LARRY PAGE: Thanks, Neil, for your questions. I think that Nikesh can give us some color on the policy.

NIKESH ARORA: Yes, I think it's fair to say what we did was we've always had a policy. And the policy has been that we want to make sure that whatever ads are presented in whatever way, our traffic is routed to ads. It is done in the best interest of the user. And we began to notice that there were sites and pages where we had too many ads in a page so it became more restrictive. And update our policies for better enforcement. And that has resulted in higher quality results for end users. It has reduced, in some cases, the monetization that some of our partners are seeing as a result of this enforcement. And, hence, you're seeing the impact on the numbers.

We just announced this policy sometime early this quarter, in the past quarter that we just went through. So you are going to see the impact over the next few quarters. We've also implemented more stringent policies around downloadable apps. And that's why I think both those effects are going to stay with us for the year. But we think the long term is the right answer for us, it's the right answer for users, and it's the right answer for advertisers. So we think it's a good thing to do.

LARRY PAGE: We've been doing things like that for awhile, just making sure we're focused on user experience in our advertising products. And we found that that's been a very good long-term focus for our business that have really benefited us. So I think that's the ordinary course of it there.

I think that -- you mentioned bridging online ads with offline transactions. I just said like mobile will increase the value of these kind of businesses. That's an example of it. Like, you can actually measure. Somebody gets an offer, that they redeemed it in a real store. Or they went to the store, or whatever it is. And so we're very excited about that. But we're still in the early stages of really making those solutions work for consumers, advertisers and so on. But I think it's a great area that you highlighted that. So can we go to our next question?

OPERATOR: Heather Bellini with Goldman Sachs.

HEATHER BELLINI, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: I had a question for Larry. I was just wondering if you could share with us your initial thoughts on the Google fiber rollout. And also if you could outline for us your vision for the product if you look out over the next few years. And how this might fit into your opening comments about multiple screens and unprecedented change in the consumer compute arena.

LARRY PAGE: I think it's been great to see the success there with the initial fiber rollout. We're still in the very early stages of it. It's obviously only going to a small number of people. But we are excited about the possibilities there, of getting people gigabit speeds and a really great internet experience. Patrick, do you want to add anything there?

PATRICK PICHETTE: Yes, we're really focused on Kansas City right now. And you've probably seen in the press, it's called now the Silicon Prairie. It's got a lot of press because we've started to rollout. We've started the implementation and the installs. We're growing up in terms of installs week after week. And people just love the product. So, you're absolutely right, Heather, that we are really excited about this product. And it's been a great success overall. So while we're going to continue, and as we've said all along, here is another great example of when it's not a hobby. We really think that we should be making business, good business, with this opportunity. And we're going to continue to look at the possibility of expanding. But right now we just got a nail, because we're in the early days, we just got a nail in Kansas City. It's a perfect place for us to debug all of the elements of the product and the experience for the users. But all-in all, what a great opportunity to deliver 100 times the average speed. And that's what people are just dying to get everywhere. We have time for probably one last question.

LARRY PAGE: We missed the second part of the question, too. But it's a pretty big question. They wanted me to outline the vision for the product, looking over the next few years. I guess the best way to predict the future is to make it, so that's what we're trying to do. I don't have anything specific to announce this time. But I couldn't be more excited about some of the things I mentioned in Google Now. Really understanding what your question is before you have it. Wouldn't that be great at the earnings call if we just answered all of your questions without you asking them? It would be a lot less work for you all.

So I think some of those things could really be reality. And I think if you look at knowledge panels, I recently asked a really obscure question. I was looking at the height of a bridge, and I was like, what's the height of the bridge. And I typed it into Google and it just spit out the answer. And I was dumbfounded that I didn't have to go and research that. So I think some of those things seem kind of like science fiction, we're really getting to with Google apps. Sergey has really taken on. You used to think that was science fiction and he's running around with it wearing it. As am I sometimes, as well. So I think we're just really excited about the future. I think the rate of innovation in the world is increasing, and also within Google. And that's just a really exciting place to be.

PATRICK PICHETTE: We actually saw Sergey in New York last weekend in the subway with his plastic bags and all. So we have time for one last question.

OPERATOR: Douglas Anmuth with JPMorgan.

DOUGLAS ANMUTH, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: I just wanted to ask you about display to start. I think in the last couple years, you've given a run rate in Q4. I was hoping you could do that again for this past quarter. And then also just talk about the early feedback and contribution from the YouTube app on IOS. And then, just lastly, any update on the C-shares, timing and the process there? Thank you.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Let me just jump on display. As we said many times in the past, we'll give occasionally numbers here and there, just to give a sense of momentum. But we don't give them quarter-over-quarter or year-over-year. So that's exactly the case for display. And in the case of early feedback on the contribution for YouTube app on IOS, I'll leave it to Nikesh.

NIKESH ARORA: We're very excited about the IOS app that we put out there, not just for YouTube but also for Google Maps. We think that both have tremendous amounts of success. And I think it's an illustration of how if you focus on the user and produce a great experience, it doesn't matter what platform it is. People will adopt it and adapt it and take to it. And I think our partners -- and we both are excited about the fact that these apps are successful. I don't think it's just a unilateral view. Back to Patrick.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Yes, sorry, I just saw, Doug, your question on the C-shares. Look, as we said previously, this recapitalization is subject to pending litigation right now. And once the litigation has been resolved, we expect our Board of Directors to determine the exact timing of issuing the dividend. So we can't really predict it yet because it's litigation, but we don't expect it to occur before the second quarter of this year. That's where we stand on that.

And with that, I just want to thank everybody for joining us today on the call. Wish everybody a really prosperous and happy new year. As Nikesh and Larry said, two thumbs up to all our Googlers for a phenomenal 2012, and making it a place of choice. And look forward to an exciting 2013. With that, Jennifer, I'm going to let you close the call.

OPERATOR: All right, thank you. And that does conclude today's conference. Thank you for your participation.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
goog : Google Inc.
   IN
i8395464 : Internet Search Engines | iint : Internet/Online Services | itech : Technology
   NS
c151 : Earnings | gcar : Cars | ntra : Transcript | c32 : Advertising | c15 : Performance | c31 : Marketing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | glife : Living/Lifestyle | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020130205e91m004h6
  


 HD
 Q3  2012 Google Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
10,890 words
   PD
18 October 2012
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©012 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day and welcome everyone to the Google Inc third-quarter 2012 earnings conference call. This call is being recorded. At this time I'd like to turn the call over to Jane Penner, Director Investor Relations. Please go ahead.

   TD
JANE PENNER, IR, GOOGLE INC: Good afternoon everyone and welcome to today's third-quarter 2012 earnings conference call. With us are Larry Page, Chief Executive Officer; Patrick Pichette, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Nikesh Arora, Senior Vice President and Chief Business Officer.

Also as you know we distribute our earnings release through our Investor Relations website located at investor. Google.com. So please refer to our IR website for our earnings releases as well as the supplementary slides that accompany the call. This call is also being webcast from investor. Google.com. A replay of the call will be available on our website later today.

Now let me quickly cover the Safe Harbor. Some of the statements we make today may be considered forward-looking statements, including statements regarding Google's future investments, our long-term growth and innovation, expected performance of our businesses, and our expected level of capital expenditures. These statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially. Please note that these forward-looking statements reflect our opinions only as of the date of this presentation and we undertake no obligation to revise or publicly release the results of any revisions to these forward-looking statements in light of new information or future events. Please refer to our SEC filings for a more detailed description of the risk factors that may affect our results.

Please note that certain financial measures that we use on this call such as operating income and operating margin are expressed on a non-GAAP basis and have been adjusted to exclude charges related to stock-based compensation. We have also adjusted our net cash provided by operating activities to remove capital expenditures, which we refer to as free cash flow. Our GAAP results and reconciliations of non-GAAP to GAAP measures can be found in our earnings press release.

With that I'll turn the call over to Patrick.

PATRICK PICHETTE, SVP AND CFO, GOOGLE INC: Hello everybody. Why don't I invite Larry to give us the first round of commentary and then I'll go through our financials and then Nikesh will have some comments before we turn to Q&A. So here you go Larry.

LARRY PAGE, CEO, GOOGLE INC: Thank you Patrick. Hello everyone. Thanks for joining us. It's great to be on the call today and to share our progress since we last spoke six months ago. As you can hear my voice is still hoarse so I'll keep my remarks reasonably short. I'm sorry for the scramble earlier today. As our printers have said, they hit send on the release just a bit early.

We had a strong quarter. I'm really happy with our Business. Revenue was up 45% year on year, and at just 14 years old, we cleared our first $14 billion revenue quarter. Not bad for a teenager.

Today we live in a world of abundance, abundant information, and abundant computing. Most of us carry at least one device all the time, every day. In fact, many of us feel naked without our smartphone. [Surprising] mobile search queries and mobile commerce are growing dramatically across the world. When we use these devices interchangeably, depending on our situation. I switch between my Nexus phone, my Nexus 7 tablet, and my new Chrome book that we just announced today many times every day.

All this abundance causes disruption. It also creates amazing opportunity. Google is super well-placed to take advantage of these disruptive opportunities. Why? Because our search query volumes have grown this quarter as measured year over year. And we're seeing tremendous innovation in advertising, which I believe will help us monetize mobile queries more effectively than desktop today. Indeed, our mobile monetization per query is already a significant fraction compared to desktop. In short, as we transition from one screen to multiscreens, Google has enormous opportunities to innovate and drive ever-higher monetization, just like Search in 2000.

Now we took a big pat on Android's back in 2005. We believe that aligning standards around an open source operating system would drive innovation across the industry. Most people thought we were nuts. Today, there are over 0.5 billion Android devices. 0.5 billion. With 1.3 million more being activated every day.

You should all run out to buy the Nexus 7 tablets for $199. It's gotten rave reviews and recently won Gadget of the Year from T3, the gadget experts. You'll love the integration with Google Play, it's an amazing device.

This time last year I announced that our run rate for mobile advertising hit $2.5 billion. That seemed like a pretty big number even for Google. But now we have built up additional mobile revenue from users paying for content and apps in Google Play. Including these new sources grossed up, I can announce that our new run rate for mobile is now over $8 billion. That's quite a business.

We have so many opportunities today, that unless we prioritize we spread ourselves too thin. Last month we sunset another 19 products. We've now closed or have combined 60 products and features in the last year, and we put a ton of energy into ensuring that our remaining products work really well together. Because as screens multiply it's more important than ever we converge our services.

Users want one consistent, beautiful, and simple Google experience. Technology should do all the hard work, liberating users to get on with the important things that matter in their lives, and this screen independence is at the core of our strategy.

Take Chrome in Android for example. We only launched in February but the experience is already amazing. When you're using Chrome, switching devices is truly painless. All your tabs are there, ready to go. Search on your desktop and the result is right there on your smartphone. You can even click the back button and it just works. As more users upgrade to Google+, its now over 400 million. Users are enjoying amazing experiences cross devices like instant photo upload.

In the same way, we want to make advertising super simple for customers. Online advertising is developed in very device specific ways with separate campaigns for desktop and mobile. This makes arduous work for advertisers and agencies, and means mobile opportunities often get missed. While we're working to significantly simplify the campaign experience, working very hard on that, advertisers should be free to think about their audience while we do the hard work of dynamically adapting their campaigns across devices. I'm very excited about this.

I talked at the start about the abundance of information. In the early days of Google you would type in a query, we return 10 blue links and you move on fairly happily. Today, you expect more. Expect Google to understand deeply and you expect us to turn your intentions into actions in the blink of an eye. If you search for Tom Hanks movies, chances are you want movies with Tom Hanks, and thanks to our Knowledge Graph that's what we show now. Right from the results page, clean, fast, and organized. If you're shopping, say for Ugg boots, we now give you pictures, details about the different boots, prices and information about the local inventory, again, right from the results page. Clean, fast, and organized.

There's much more we can do to get you the right information at just the right time. You might have a really important event in the city, perhaps a first date. And the traffic is bad. You need to leave early to avoid being late. Or maybe you just landed in a new country and you're at the airport ATM, trying to figure out how much cash to withdraw. Google Now, which we launched on Android in June, gives you all that information and more, automatically, with zero effort required on your part.

Still early days. These kind of tips and recommendations are super powerful. They really save users time and hassle. This is why I'm incredibly excited about the opportunities ahead. Given our expertise in Search and mobile and our track record monetizing high usage products. Every day I wake up and I'm delighted that our opportunities keep growing. And that we're birthing to our users great products that are defining the future. It's a truly exciting time to be at Google.

Now we'll hear from Patrick some details about our quarter.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thanks, Larry. Good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining us.

Overall we're very pleased with the growth trajectory of our business this quarter, and this in fact despite significant currency fluctuations in many of our international markets. So for example, if currencies had remained constant year over year, our consolidated revenue growth would actually have been 6% higher.

On a positive note, our US growth continues to be strong, and as Larry noted, we had a great quarter on the product front, gaining traction in a number of critical areas. So, before I dive into the financials I just want to give you a bit more detail on the new $8 billion annual mobile run rate that Larry mentioned. The new run rate is different from the one we gave you a year ago and more specifically, last year it included only our gross revenue from mobile ads, but this year in this new number we also added the gross revenue from the mobile sales of Google Play content and finally, it also includes the consumer spending on the Play apps.

So with that and now why don't I just jump into our financial performance. Our total gross consolidated revenue grew 45% year over year to $14.1 billion, and that's also 15% quarter over quarter. Google standalone revenue grew 19% year over year to $11.5 billion, 5% quarter over quarter. In that, our Google website revenue was up 15% year over year to $7.7 billion, 2% quarter over quarter, with strength across most major geographies and verticals. Our Google network grew 21% year over year to $3.1 billion, and 5% quarter over quarter. And our other revenue grew 73% year over year to $666 million, 52% quarter over quarter, and this driven by the Nexus 7 sales.

Were it not for these currency fluctuations, Google's standalone revenue would actually have grown 24% year over year. As Larry mentioned, Google standalone business continues to perform very well. The dramatic growth in our new devices is driving mobile queries and clicks. And although it's early days, some of our existing ads have better monetization than desktop already today and we're confident that this transition opens a whole new space for innovation and new formats and future monetization.

Turning to MMI. Motorola gross revenue was $2.6 billion. The mobile device division revenue for that period was $1.8 billion, and the home division revenue was $797 million. But we're really pleased with Motorola's progress in its first 150 days. As indicated in our public filings our team has made a lot of operational changes. We harmonized and narrowed the product portfolio, it's been streamlining of software operations, and we've scaled back the markets in which we operate.

With that said, we're just at the beginning of the MotorolaGoogle story, and we should expect as I mentioned before, results from this segment to be quite variable for quite a while yet. Remember, that we inherited an entire product pipeline where hardware business cycles are typically in a 12 to 18 months.

At Google our aggregate paid click growth was very strong again this quarter, up 33% year over year, 6% quarter over quarter. Our aggregate CPC or cost per click was down 15%, and down 3% quarter over quarter. But once again, please remember that currency headwinds also had a significant negative impact on our CPCs in Q3. In fixed FX terms, aggregate CPC would have been down only 8%, almost half of the 15%, and down only 1% quarter over quarter.

Turning to geographic performance of Google's standalone business, we continue to see robust performance in the US, the UK, and Japan. On the other hand, we felt the continued impact of the economic situation in Continental Europe where we've seen pressure in sectors like travel and retail. In our earnings slides, which you can find on our investor relations website, you'll see that we've broken down our revenue by US, UK, and rest of world to show the impact of FX and the benefits of our hedging program. So please refer to those slides for the exact calculations.

Revenue from the US was up 23% year over year to $5.4 billion. The UK was up 16% to $1.2 billion, which includes $6 million of benefit from our hedging program, and in FX terms in fact the UK grew 20%. The non-US revenue excluding the UK accounted for 42% of our total revenue or $4.9 billion, up 15% year over year, but in fixed terms in fact was 26%, and all this includes a $56 million benefit from our hedging program.

Let's come back now to an aggregate level for total consolidated business. Our other cost of revenue was $3.6 billion in Q3, excluding our stock based compensation. Non-GAAP operating expenses totaled $3.9 billion which again excludes SBC and the restructuring and related charges recorded in our Motorola business, and our non-GAAP operating profit was therefore $3.8 billion in Q3, resulting in a non-GAAP operating margin of 27%.

For Google standalone, our traffic acquisition costs were $2.8 billion or 25.5% of total advertising revenue. Our other cost of revenue was $1.6 billion, and that excludes $103 million of stock based compensation. The increase year over year in this other cost of revenue was driven by data center costs, equipment costs, and including costs associated with the sales of the Nexus 7, and finally content acquisition costs.

Non-GAAP operating expenses were $3.2 billion, excluding again SBC of $585 million, and finally, our non-GAAP operating profit was $4 billion in Q3, resulting in a non-GAAP operating margin of 34% for Google standalone. Lastly, many of you have asked for depreciation and amortization expense on PPE for standalone Google, which was $465 million for this quarter.

If we flip to Motorola, our total non-GAAP operating expenses including cost of revenue totaled $2.7 billion for the quarter. And keep in mind that intangible amortization expenses attributed to the standalone Google and Motorola are included in these non-GAAP measures. As a result, the non-GAAP operating loss at Motorola was $151 million for Q3, resulting in a non-GAAP operating margin of 6% for that segment.

Let's switch over to headcount. For the consolidated business it decreased by roughly 1,000 in Q3. Standalone Google added about 1,800 people. Remember that historically, we often see some seasonal effects on the hiring in Q3 as folks that we hired in the spring and early summer actually start working in September. In total, the consolidated Company ended up the quarter around 53,500 full-time employees.

Our effective tax rate for this quarter was 22% in Q3. The changes from last quarter reflects the mix shift in earnings between domestic and international subsidiaries and our hedges. But finally, fewer capital gains offsets versus last quarter.

If you allow me to turn to cash management. OI&E, or other income and expenses was $63 million, which reflects the continued impact of our FAS 133 expenses of our hedging program, but also fewer capital gains versus last quarter. For more detail on OI&E again please refer to the slides that accompany this call on our IR website.

Operating cash flow was very strong, $4 billion. CapEx for the quarter was $872 million versus last quarter's $774 million. The majority of our CapEx spend continues to be related to production equipment and facilities related purchases. All this actually delivers us a free cash flow which was $3.1 billion, which we were quite pleased.

The success of our product really gives us the confidence to continue to fund the strategic growth areas, areas that Larry talked about such as Search, YouTube, Android, Chrome, and as always we continue to show our discipline making the tough calls on products that just don't live up to our expectations. In Q3 we've seen a number of these decisions including the sunset of our Google TV ads as an example.

With that I'll hand it off to Nikesh, who will cover more detail on our business performance in the quarter. After his remarks, we'll open up the phones for Q&A. Nikesh, here's to you.

NIKESH ARORA, SVP AND CHIEF BUSINESS OFFICER, GOOGLE INC: Thank you, Patrick.

I'd like to reiterate what Patrick said. Our business had a strong quarter with $11.5 billion in Google standalone gross revenue.

I want to talk to you about our focus and progress on four major trends that are actually helping drive our business growth. First, the trend Larry already talked about, the rise of the multiscreen consumer. This is creating huge opportunities for us especially in our Advertising business and focus on video and mobile. At the moment everybody thinks about the online world as divided into Desktops and Mobile. Larry shared the amazing $8 billion run rate.

We believe in the medium term these screens will continue to diverge, but our advertising opportunities will converge to allow our marketeers to run common campaigns across all these screens. Our teams have been putting the same focus on mobile and video the last few quarters that we brought to Display a few years ago, and it's rewarding to see it bear fruit. We've intensified training for our sales teams across the globe, integrated sales tools, so we can really bring our customers' mobile video, Search, and Display as a cohesive solution.

We're also educating our advertisers through initiatives like Go Mobile to ensure they have the right creaters and landing pages to make mobile truly work for them. However, we feel the progress we have made is just the very first step in a journey of monetizing many screens Larry talked about. As we develop advertising that can take advantage of the context in which consumers use this many screens we expect to continue to see better monetization. As we help marketeers reach consumers closer to the point of purchase, the opportunities will only get bigger.

We're already seeing glimpses of this. Take T-Mobile, who use location based mobile ads to drive people nearby into their stores, and in their words, win the last 10 feet. They achieved a click-through rate of about 13%, in what is a very successful strategy. These rates are three to four times of what you would see without using some of these context. Our click-to-call ads work because consumers can respond by contacting an advertiser immediately from the ad, generating approximately 20 million phone calls per month for clients through our various call products of advertising.

The second trend which I'm excited about is it's not just the context that matters, but also our ability to deliver more precise answers to consumers, something also that Larry talked about. We're working very hard on this. Larry talked about Google Now and Knowledge Graph. It's exciting to see how that even makes opportunities for us happen, as Search becomes smarter in the commercial environment. We can do a better job of connecting marketeers with consumers in the moments that matter. Irrespective of what device they're using.

For example, we're pleased that as of yesterday Google Shopping completed its transition to a fully paid model based on product listing ads. Now we're providing product information, pictures, pricing, local inventory information, over 1 billion products from tens of thousands of merchants in over 100,000 sellers.

So the new Google Shopping experience, Adorama, one of the US's largest photo retailers and mail order suppliers saw their click-through rate jump by 176%. Their conversion rate went up by 100% in June as compared to year earlier. Using the same technology that powers our Knowledge Graph, we're providing better answers with Google Shopping in other areas where users want to make a purchase. We're going to reduce the number of steps from Search to transaction, making the online experience even more valuable to consumers and marketeers.

The third trend, which I'm excited about is that we're actually making real headway amplifying offline ad campaigns with online media. We have a unique approach that helps advertisers succeed across media. We allow them to use and leverage the attributes of each media and adapt their campaigns for online success. YouTube, energized by new professional content and display are the core of this business helping clients increase awareness, increase capability, and also drive engagement.

In addition we also continue to make progress on our end-to-end technology platform to help advertisers of all sizes succeed with display advertising. Today, our top partner is the agency world and very large advertisers and publishers are using a consistent technology stack. The number of impression that's we've been able to pass through AdX and Invite platforms have doubled over the last year.

We're also working on creating more video premium inventory with our channel strategy on YouTube. As more and more viewers move to online video, we expect more and more brands will do the same. Our Brand business is actually creating quite a buzz in the industry because we have great media and our solutions really work.

For example on YouTube we looked at about 92 different ad campaigns with sales impact. We found that on average spending on YouTube was approximately 2.4 times more efficient than the equivalent television spend. We have 200 times more video advertisers than the average US television network.

Our TrueView format in which advertisers only pay for ads that users watch has really taken off. We have twice as many advertisers using TrueView as last year. That's a very important statistic but like any good brand marketeer the best way for me to tell you a story is to actually show it.

Let's see what two of our leading brands have done this quarter. We launched the YouTube Gillette Football Club at Procter and Gamble in Europe. We've created global brand platforms with Gillette that will reinvent the way people watch football online. The campaigns have generated over 30 million video views.

We're working with Coca-Cola on their Vitamin Water branding efforts. We've partnered to build a strategic music program leveraging YouTube as a platform to anchor, distribute, and syndicate the video content. It's particularly exciting to see that over 100 brands now have over 1 million followers on Google+, including ESPN, Playstation, Ferrari, H&M, Burberry, [Terido].

Last trend I want to talk about is the trend of cloud computing and the enterprise. Our enterprise business continues to thrive. We saw especially great traction in retail and education sectors this quarter with Dillard's, Kohl's, and Office Depot all using Google enterprise products. In education, there are over 20 million students, faculty, and staff now on Google Apps, including Princeton, Virginia Tech, and even the Philippines Department of Education, which has over 600,000 users.

With the recent launch of Google+ for enterprise customers, organizations of all sizes, including (inaudible), are starting to use our hangouts and other tools to work together and get things done from anywhere. In addition to all these trends our marketing team continues to do an excellent job. We launched a global cross product initiative to bring the 2012 Olympics to our users worldwide. YouTube streamed games live to 64 countries. Also YouTube was the official live streaming provider with over 1 million hours of live content for the Democratic and Republican National Conventions.

We passed yet another milestone just this week when YouTube broke its own record to reach more than 8 million concurrent live streams of Felix Baumgartner's record breaking leap from space with the Lego Stratus mission. So with that as an update, I'm going to hand you back to Patrick.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thank you, Nikesh. Jennifer, if you'd like to tell us the rules, we'll just get on to the Q&A, please.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions)

Ross Sandler, Deutsche Bank.

ROSS SANDLER, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Nikesh, one quick question on revenue and Patrick, one on expenses. The international rest of world organic growth was 26%, pretty strong, but down from 29% last quarter. Was there any incremental weakness that you saw or was this just mostly from a tougher comp?

And then Patrick, your sales and marketing expense was up 18% from last quarter. That's a bit higher than the typical increase in 3Q. Can you talk about what's driving up those investments? Thanks, guys.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Okay. I'll start. Nikesh and I are pointing at each other. On the marketing expense, listen, I think what you see is the impact of the support for the Nexus 7 that we launched in Q3. Otherwise, everything was pretty much in line with what we would expect. We just got such a great review of the Nexus 7, we wanted to support it in the market. That's the biggest delta you'll see in that number. In terms of the market, I'll hand it over to Nikesh for his commentary.

NIKESH ARORA: I think it's fair to say that our revenue growth internationally has been pretty strong. You are seeing some pockets of difference in performance, partly because of seasonal reasons and partly because the continuing economic effects you're seeing in Europe. Our business is doing better than the economy in most markets in Europe, but it does get impacted a little bit with some of the fluctuations you see there. From our perspective there's not any cause for concern.

ROSS SANDLER: Thanks, guys.

OPERATOR: Scott Devitt, Morgan Stanley.

SCOTT DEVITT, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Was wondering, could you talk a little more about the strategy behind the decision to monetize product listing ads? And then more broadly about the retail strategy for the Company? And then secondly, Google website revenue net of distribution tax slowed to 13% from 20% last quarter. I was wondering if possibly you could, Patrick, normalize that for currency to get a better understanding of FX-neutral for website growth? Thank you.

LARRY PAGE: Scott, this is Larry. I'll take the question about the strategy and product listings. I think we're just really excited about providing a better experience for our customers, and when they search for something I mentioned Ugg boots on the call, when you search for that, I think you should get a well-organized set of product information, ways to buy it and really have a great experience there.

And we see our ability to do that on the ads or monetized product listing side is really helping us provide a better user experience and provide a better advertiser experience. So I'm very excited about that. I think we're still in the early stages of that. We just launched that yesterday really and we still got a ways to go. So I'll let Nikesh or Patrick take the next question.

PATRICK PICHETTE: On your question relative to our Google site [intact], I'm not -- could you just repeat your question? I'm not sure I understood what you meant.

SCOTT DEVITT: I'm trying to understand better you suggested the 600 basis point effect from currency. Was just wondering if there's a better way to understand the way that currency affected the Google site revenue, if I should think of that any differently than the overall currency.

PATRICK PICHETTE: I see. So no, I mean, we have -- our network is slightly skewed to the US versus our Google site. So you'll have some mix effect there because our network is slightly skewed to the US. But overall I think it still gives you a good sense of proportion as to what is going on in the market. That's the way I would kind of think about it from a model point of view.

LARRY PAGE: Let me just add also on the first part of the question, I think we're really trying to provide answers to people, and so as a strategy for the Company, really are looking at very detailed information and giving you the exact right answer. That's what we're doing with knowledge cards and in Search and we want to do the same thing also with our advertising, make sure that we get you as a user the right answer, and I think that's a very exciting sort of new strategy for us.

SCOTT DEVITT: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Mark Mahaney, Citi.

MARK MAHANEY, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Two questions, please. Mobile searches are really strong. What's happening with desktop searches? At some point it's probably reasonable to assume that they flat line. Have we already reached that?

On the expense side if we just look at core Google, it looks like margins are coming down. But if you did roughly $200 million maybe in Nexus revenue. If you really sold those devices at cost, then margins are actually better than they've been in two years. Which is the more accurate interpretation? Thanks.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Let me start with the margin. Then I'll answer your first question. On the margins you actually have a couple of effects this quarter. One of them is clearly as you said the cost of the Nexus that will flow into our other cost of revenue. But also, it's the first time that you have the full quarter effect of the amortization of intangibles from the Motorola transaction. So that is also another big kind of lever that actually kicked in.

It should be noted just for the financial community that the amortization of intangibles for Motorola flows to both the Google segment and the Motorola segment in different proportions. So again, it's pretty tough, as I promised you that we'd have a lot of kind of noise in the data, I think that that's a good set of indication. For the first one, why don't I let Larry give a few comments on the issue of mobile.

LARRY PAGE: I guess I feel like you're asking the wrong question a little bit. I think we're really starting to live in a new reality, one where the kind of ubiquity of the screens helps users really move from intent to action much faster and more seamlessly. I think this will create a huge new universe of opportunities for advertisers where they can focus on platform -- focusing on platform-specific queries won't make as much sense because advertisers will be dynamically adapting across a whole bunch of different devices to reach the right audiences at the right time.

That's kind of how we're thinking about it. I alluded to changes that we'll make to our ad system, to improve the advertiser experience and the user experience around that. And I also think that we're just seeing tremendous growth in Android, which really obviously we have tremendous ability to influence and to improve the user experience, to add location, to notify you of things, as I mentioned around different kinds of noncommercial experiences. We can notify you of commercial experiences as well. So I think that's a really big and great opportunity for us.

And I also said that monetization on mobile queries right now is a significant fraction of desktop. So we're kind of living the best of both worlds. We're able to move our existing ads and our existing monetization over to mobile, and we're also able to really innovate using Android and our strength of having ads on other mobile platforms and really move advertisers and consumers into a new world. So I think we're uniquely positioned to get through that transition and to really profit from it. So I'm just incredibly excited about that.

MARK MAHANEY: Thanks for the correction, Larry.

OPERATOR: Carlos Kirjner, Sanford Bernstein.

CARLOS KIRJNER, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & CO.: Two questions. If you run a website with proprietary high-quality content today and had to choose a protocol to add metadata about this content, why wouldn't the clear choice be the Open Graph protocol instead of RDF or one of its variables? And if that happens then the semantic web arises on the back of Open Graph. Doesn't it place Google at a fundamental disadvantage to achieve the vision that Larry laid out at the beginning of the call?

The second question is what do you think is the future of vertical search and why is that there are sites that specialize in certain verticals such as travel and local that seem to do a better job than Google today? Is this going to change over time? What happens with vertical search? Thank you.

LARRY PAGE: Carlos, I'll take those questions. I think if you -- I'm not an expert on the protocols you're talking about. I think in general, we made a huge investment in Knowledge Graph and really understanding in detail about everything. And that's a major effort for us. We would obviously love to have other people help us with that. I think it's been a little bit of a challenge in the past to get all the labeling aligned and all those things, so I think we have a big part to play in that. We're absolutely very excited about that and I think we're going to do a lot of work in that area. I think we're doing well in that space.

Vertical searches, you asked about. I think our goal has always been to get you to the right place. But we also to do that, we need to really understand in detail your contacts, what you need, what's really going on with that information. If it's airline tickets, what are the flights between, what do they cost, products. Someone selling, we need to know how much they cost, again what the shipping is, and so on. So I think any place we can get that information accurately, we can present it to our users, we're very happy to do so. In general, we found that we've needed to really build more of that experience in order to provide a really high quality experience to our users but again, we're always hoping also to working with partners.

CARLOS KIRJNER: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Ben Schachter, Macquarie.

BEN SCHACHTER, ANALYST, MACQUARIE RESEARCH: One question for Larry and then a couple of housekeeping points on the Apple relationship for Patrick. Larry there's a lot of talk about internet use on mobile devices. But switching gears a little, I was wondering if you could talk about the potential for internet access on television screens and how Google might benefit from that.

And then Patrick, just two quick housekeeping questions on Apple. One is 100% of the TAC that you pay Apple recognized in the Google.com TAC line. And then on the iOS 6, there's a seemingly small change in the default search bar where it now says the word Search whereas it used to say Google. How does, if at all, that change the economic relationship between Apple and Google? Thanks.

LARRY PAGE: Okay. So Ben, thanks for the question. Obviously we're excited about television, television screens, displays and we have been for a while. We've had Google TV, as a product for quite some time. I use it. I love it. I think it's great to have a real browser available on your television and easily access YouTube and all those kind of things. YouTube is integrated on many, many devices, from DVD players and so on to game consoles and things like that. So we obviously are working hard to get distribution for YouTube, for Chrome, for the internet as a whole on television screens as well as our own products and we're very excited about that. I think we're obviously still in the early stages of that, it's not that everybody has a great user experience. And we'll work hard to make that happen.

PATRICK PICHETTE: On the -- sorry, just want to talk about the TAC line. Just to say that, yes, I mean, obviously all the TAC that we pay to Apple is just another partner for distribution. So it all is tied to our -- the TAC line that we have for Google.com. On your question of the default, all it is -- nothing changed. We're a great partner with Apple. We're a great partner with many of them. In doing so when you do a search we have -- the fact that they've changed from Google to Search is still kind of ran by our engines, so I hope that clarifies the point, Ben.

BEN SCHACHTER: Thanks.

OPERATOR: Anthony DiClemente, Barclays.

ANTHONY DICLEMENTE, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Sorry to harp on the CPC question but you mentioned them being down 8% ex-FX. Can you just, Patrick, talk a little about the other drivers. I think everybody assumes that the bulk of the down 8% is mobile but I know there are other factors driving that down 8%. So if you could just kind of give us order of magnitude, emerging markets and so forth if possible.

Secondly on allocation of your sizable free cash flow and on your cash balance, Patrick, in the past you've talked about reviewing and considering capital returns at the Board level and at the same time you've talked about your cash balance being a strategic asset for Google. Just wondering if you could give us an update on yours, on Larry's, the Board's thinking on allocation of capital and use of your cash balance. Thanks for the questions.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Yes, listen, on the CPC trends, nothing has changed from the last few quarters. In fact, I think people have a tendency just to harp and assuming that it's automatically mobile. If you look through our results just to kind of point to a few areas, if you look at our mix between our Google properties and our network, our network grew quite a bit again this quarter, and that would drive a lot of TAC as well. Again, that's the reason why I kind of want to educate and remind everybody that just all of these mix effects, whether it be mobile versus tablet versus desktop but also emerging market versus developed markets and also our Google.com versus network. We haven't even talked about the changes in our ads quality which actually can change quite a bit as well. So I think that that matters a lot. And I think that it's really important that we understand that all these mix effects are actually playing -- are at play there in the CPC.

So rather than -- that's why we don't give -- if we start giving out all the breakdown, it's just endless. For us the real issue for us is what really matters is they're going down but on the flip side of that, given all these mix issues, what we really see is our paid clicks going up at a pretty healthy rate, at 33% again this quarter, which actually gives you a sense of people are engaged, people are using our products, it's really about this transformation to multi-devices. The fact that there's a little bit less CPC is not a concern compared to all the upside that we see on the other side.

On the issue of our cash and capital balance, I think you get the same answer. Maybe Larry wants to kind of chime in if he wishes to. We just review this on a constant basis. We ask ourselves the question, is there real options for us actually to use the cash from a strategic perspective, and we've come to the conclusion that it is a real strategic asset for us right now with the ability to pounce. We think it's prudent to actually manage our capital structure the way it is as we speak.

LARRY PAGE: Nothing to announce at this time.

BEN SCHACHTER: Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Heather Bellini, Goldman Sachs.

HEATHER BELLINI, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: I have two for Patrick and then one for Larry. Patrick, I'll start out with yours first. Can you give us an idea of the run rate that you're talking about, the $8 billion for mobile, can you give us and idea of what that is on a kind of same store sales basis. You gave us the $2.5 billion run rate last year. What is the mobile advertising piece? I think that's something people are really interested in, so ex the stuff from Google Play.

The follow-up question I had for you was what's the margin profile on the Google Play content revenue that you're recognizing? And then the question for Larry is I guess in listening to Mark Mahaney's question I was wondering in this new reality you mentioned in response to his question, how does Google Fiber play into this vision to have your content and search capabilities go across multiple screens? Thank you.

LARRY PAGE: We'll let Patrick take the first part.

PATRICK PICHETTE: On the $8 billion, so let me give you just a bit more information on it. But clearly we don't break down each of the categories. We just wanted to kind of give you a sense of proportion. A point that's important is of the three categories I gave you, ads continues to be the bulk of it, the vast majority of it. And then on the case of the Google Play, it's important to note from a modeling perspective that the -- everything that's content, that is whether a book, a movie, content is actually booked on our books on a gross basis. Everything that is tied to apps is booked on a net basis. But it's still a huge kind of number in all cases. So without giving you -- I just wanted to give you that so that you don't start thinking that there is actually $8 billion that is booked to revenue in our results that you see, but in fact two of the three are there. The third one is done on a net basis just because of our accounting rules. So and the vast majority is still ads.

HEATHER BELLINI: Can you just give us a sense of the margin profile on the non-ad piece?

PATRICK PICHETTE: We don't provide that. We don't give any details of that. Clearly, it is a different profile because it's content. So we have partnerships that we deal with.

HEATHER BELLINI: Great.

PATRICK PICHETTE: On the case of -- why don't I turn it over to Larry to talk about Google Fiber and role of TV.

LARRY PAGE: Heather, it's a great question. I think on the Google Fiber I think we're in the early stages. Just rolling it out in one city or two cities that are one city. And we're really excited about it. I'm excited about the user experience there. In fact, I think I'm about to get one soon for my house to try out. You control it with a Nexus 7 tablet, actually. That's the remote for it. I think it will be an amazing experience from a user standpoint, one that can really drive that industry forward. So we're quite excited about that. Like I said, we're in the early stages, obviously of rolling that out.

PATRICK PICHETTE: It's worth just to close on that, it's worth kind of noting also that we are pushing for the next chapter of the internet in the US with Google Fiber. People -- there's such a demand for higher speed access at reasonable prices. I think that we've got a great mouse trap with Google Fiber and we hope it excites everybody and promote the environment that will actually give us that kind of connectivity in the US and elsewhere as well.

HEATHER BELLINI: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Douglas Anmuth, JPMorgan.

DOUGLAS ANMUTH, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Just wanted to ask two questions. First, just following up on Scott's earlier question, we saw deceleration in Google properties, then an acceleration on network sites. Hoping you could talk about it a little bit beyond the US and international mix, is there anything else that you would attribute those dynamics to?

And then secondly you've talked a lot about multiple screens and the ubiquity of devices. How concerned are you that in a mobile world behavior is different and we're living in more of an apps-based environment and Google might not be that starting point for people on mobile devices? Thanks.

LARRY PAGE: Thanks. That's a great question, Doug. I'll take the second one first. I think a lot's been made of that. I don't think that's really true. Kind of apps versus Search. We obviously have a great position in apps. We have the Android Play Store, which has a huge number of apps. And I think that those experiences are great experiences and there's some things that are better than them about the web, there are some things that are better than the web other than apps. I think over time, if we do our jobs right, you'll have the same capabilities in both places. You'll have searchability in apps. You'll be able to more easily go to apps the same way you would go to web pages and so on. I think those differences will merge or be reduced in ways over time.

I think we obviously have a strong position in both. So I'm not so worried about that. I think that there's obviously innovation that goes on in mobile and we talked a little bit about all the different contacts to location you can have on mobile, the fact that you're always carrying a device with you and those things are very powerful. You want all that when you're on desktop as well or on the web. You want that same information. And so we want a seamless experience that goes across both mobile and desktop and TV or whatever screens you have. And that's what we're building. I think that we're going to see tremendous growth in these things.

The other point I'd make is that there's a small -- relatively small number of people right now that have Chrome on their mobile devices, and I find Chrome on my mobile device is like the same as having a desktop computer a year ago or something. It's an amazing experience. You can buy things. It remembers your credit card numbers. It's a very, very easy, great experience. That's rolled out to a relatively small number of people but it will be increasing quickly. So I guess just seeing all those trends I think it's a tremendous opportunity for us and I don't think people are really thinking about it correctly now. So Patrick, do you want to cover the detailed question?

PATRICK PICHETTE: With pleasure. Look, just to reiterate, that our Google website revenue was up and with strength across most geographies and most verticals. Obviously you've heard Nikesh talk about we can't control the economy in the short term. If there's a country that is slowing down a little bit then we clearly see it in the results as well because Google is actually a pretty good predictor of the present as our economist, Hal Varian, kind of reminds us. Then on the Google network, I think we're just really pleased with -- it's skewed slightly more to the US but really pleased with the performance overall with all of our networks, that's been performing well. So nothing additional to kind of highlight apart from just good, general trends.

DOUGLAS ANMUTH: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Richard Kramer, Arete.

RICHARD KRAMER, ANALYST, ARETE RESEARCH: I've got some -- one question for each of you, if I may. For Larry, if you could just expand a little bit more on YouTube and maybe provide not only some metrics but really your maybe three to five year vision of its role in video distribution between Google TV and the Fiber project and some of the other options?

For Nikesh, could you talk a little about emerging markets and where Android really is the dominant and only scale mobile computing platform? And what might drive that to show faster international growth? Is it adding salesforce or purchasing power or something else?

And then maybe Patrick, could you help us understand a little bit the FX headwind on the top line, how it might have been expressed moving down the P&L especially in sort of net profit terms? Thanks very much.

LARRY PAGE: Richard, that's a great question on YouTube. I've had and mentioned Google TV for a while. I think recently YouTube transitioned for me maybe a year ago to being really something that could keep me entertained for hours on the TV. It can play back lots of really high quality, highly exciting things. They're now kind of tailored for me. I have my channels. And so on. And I think we have tremendously increasing YouTube usage, continues to grow like crazy, and we've had increasing monetization as well, which causes people to put more content on it and to monetize it worldwide, in the blink of an eye you can put something up. The recent video with the horse dancing, Gangnam Style. I've been watching, it has 400 million views now. Sorry, 500 million now. I'm out-of-date.

That kind of thing to really just flip a switch, turn it on, get a worldwide distribution and sort of almost without doing any work, if you're a provider of this content is an amazing thing and I think that's how we see the future. We're just going to continue to grow that. YouTube's going to be available everywhere on your mobile, on your TV, on your desktop, whatever, wherever you want. It's going to keep track of the kinds of things you're interested in and really provide you an amazing experience and provide a great experience for the advertisers.

TrueView is exploding which gives us high quality ads from an end user standpoint. Because they can skip them if they want so it encourages ads that are actually entertaining, not annoying and that's been working. We're making money with that and it's growing like crazy as well. I couldn't be more excited about all that.

NIKESH ARORA: Thanks, Richard. As far as the emerging markets and Android, I think we're very excited about the fact that Android is becoming a very successful platform in many markets outside the US, not just the US. I think in terms of what drives -- I'm not sure if your question is about faster growth of Android or faster growth of monetization on Android platforms. I think on both of them we're seeing the adoption in various markets where OEMs are producing Android devices on the bleeding edge and doing a phenomenal job of working with operators in those markets and distributing them. We think that will continue because Android is providing to be a great platform for innovation for all the OEMs.

In addition to that, as more and more people use mobile devices, I think we've talked a lot in this call about how as mobile devices are being used we're seeing increasing query growth and we're seeing our various new ad formats and ads where we bring context into account, it's actually helping us monetize. I think both those trends are going in the right direction, hopefully that provides more opportunity for us.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Let me close on FX. So Richard, just two points. One is, it's been interesting in Q3 the US dollar has really weakened versus a whole host of currencies, so typically you have one currency that goes down, another one is more stable. We've really seen it across the board, it just happens with the macroeconomic trends, something you can't predict so it's been across the board. And without giving you the details of how it flows to margin, it is fair to say and we've already talked in the past that our operating expenses are skewed to the US. Mountain View is the headquarter and so from that perspective it has some effect as well. I think you can navigate through this. It was definitely a significant impact for this quarter.

RICHARD KRAMER: Okay. Thanks.

OPERATOR: Justin Post, Merrill Lynch.

JUSTIN POST, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: On a high level, I just want to know, searches on mobile the same quality in your estimate as PC, meaning are you still getting good, high CPC travel and e-commerce searches on mobile? Second, maybe you could talk a little about the roll out of Google product search, seeing those ads definitely in core search results and could that have an impact in Q4?

And then maybe some detail on the hedging program. This is one of your worst year-over-year hedging -- I'm sorry, one of your worst year-over-year FX impacts, down $500 million, and yet you get a $62 million benefit and I think you disclosed the cost was $124 million. Is there something you can do to kind of improve that, the ratios there, and not spend so much and get a better benefit when FX is this negative? Thanks.

LARRY PAGE: Justin, thanks for that question. I don't know the details of particular queries on mobile versus desktop. But I can tell you I think like for example in travel, we bought ITA Software for a sizable amount, because we thought it was important to provide a better experience there. When you type cities and you want an airline ticket, you know you actually need that detailed information. And so I think I'm not worried about any of that to the extent we provide a great and amazing user experience for people, who when they're looking for all types of different kinds of information, as long as we're providing, again, that very detailed, very organized set of results for people, I think that translates across all of your screens just fine. Nikesh or Patrick, do you want to -- ?

PATRICK PICHETTE: I can jump in onto the FX issue if you don't mind. I think it's interesting your question, Justin, but let remind ourselves of a couple points. Because I think our FX program has actually delivered amazing value to shareholders. One is we don't hedge revenue. We hedge profits. And we hedge a number of kind of major currencies like the euro, the pound, Canadian dollar, a few others, which is the core of our program. So not only that, but actually our hedge program is set and designed for long terms kind of 18 months as a risk reduction strategy and doesn't necessarily correlate in any way, shape or form for a three month time frame in our financial results. And it's really also built to make sure because you've got a cost benefit ratio there of making sure that it's set for big dislocations. So if it's a small variance in the short term, you're not going to get as much benefit as a big dislocation.

For all these reasons, and then what I mentioned a bit earlier which is we've seen actually FX across a whole slew of currencies this quarter, which the smaller currencies just added up and we don't hedge for them today, that's what kind of ended up in the puzzle. We are constantly looking at our forecast and if it makes sense we'll actually throw in new currencies going forward. That's been the story on FX. I wouldn't read in any way, shape or form that it hasn't performed well, it's performed very well. Why don't I turn it back over to Nikesh for the last question.

NIKESH ARORA: In terms of the product listing ads as we talked about we're really excited that we actually went on a full rollout for product listing ads. As we said, we have a billion products that are in there. As we have all searched, as Larry has talked about getting more precise information, we believe that users when they search, they come exploring on the web, when they have a better idea of what they're trying to buy, they start expressing intent about being more precise of what they ask for. We believe being able to show product listing ads gets us closer to intent, because when somebody types Nikon D800, then we know they're looking to buy or looking to get more information about a specific product. The fact that we can show them reviews, pictures, and pricing information gets us closer to action. We believe in the medium term that's going to create more monetization and a better monetization for us as opposed to having just 10 blue links or ads which send them to other websites. I think that's going to have a good impact in the medium term. I don't think I'm going to comment on whether that has an impact on Q4 or not.

OPERATOR: Brian Pitz, Jefferies.

BRIAN PITZ, ANALYST, JEFFERIES & CO.: Larry, bigger picture question on your mobile comments. Would you give us a rough sense of how long it could take to close the bulk of the gap between desktop and mobile monetization? Is this a matter of quarters or years that we'll see that come together? And then maybe just -- you made a quick comment on travel weakness. Last quarter I think you said travel was strong across the board and then you came back today and said it sounds like that was a weaker category, just any more color on the weakness in travel. Thanks.

LARRY PAGE: Thanks, Brian, for the question. We have kind of a policy on not talking about the future, so I think it's been generally a good policy. I tend to be very impatient and I think I'll kind of reiterate what I said. I think that we're positioned well, very, very well, and uniquely well because we have already a very significant fraction of monetization on mobile, and that's a great start and we're working on changes on how we do things. We've been investing in the space for a long, long time. Our mobile monetization is not zero. It's a very significant number as we tried to [hand toss] with the $8 billion number.

And I think that we've got a good base there and I don't think that things we need to do are that huge to get us in a very good spot and I think we have opportunity to be higher monetization than where we are now with some innovation which we're good at doing. Like I said, I'm very impatient and I think that the other point I make I guess that I hadn't made already. I think that advertising -- advertisers, our ad system requires they spend some effort to deal with mobile in general. I think advertisers, mobile until very recently has been a relatively small percentage of advertising spend for most advertisers. I think that's starting to be no longer the case and that's happening relatively quickly. And I think advertisers will also react to that and you'll see them invest more effort in targeting those users running ads for them and so on which will obviously benefit our monetization there.

So I think we have a lot of trends working for us. So I am not worried about this in terms of our business at all. I think it's more of an opportunity for us because we're better positioned than most other companies. I guess it's your all's job to estimate short-term impact but like I said I'm quite impatient.

PATRICK PICHETTE: If I could close on just travel. Obviously there's a couple of factors in there. One of them is clearly there is seasonality in travel, so obviously that's always an impact quarter over quarter. And then as we read the same news you read about Europe or other parts of the world that are in different economic situations, you will notice that if you kind of track Google trends and you go in and mine into the data you'll see that some sectors are performing better, others are not. As I mentioned in my commentary at the very beginning, travel and retail has been somewhat weak in Europe, just given their situation, so no real surprises there, Brian. Thank you for your question.

Just before we close, I just want to take 10 seconds on behalf of Nikesh, Larry, and myself, thank again the amazing work of our Googlers, all of our employees, all of our partners. What an amazing last 90 days it's been both at Motorola and Google. I'll let Larry close with the last words before we turn it over to Jennifer to close the call.

LARRY PAGE: I want to thank all of you all for spending so much time with us and following us and doing your analysis. With that, I'll close the call.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Jennifer, we'll let you close the call.

OPERATOR: Thank you. That does conclude today's presentation. Thank you for your participation.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
goog : Google Inc.
   IN
i8395464 : Internet Search Engines | iint : Internet/Online Services | itech : Technology
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | c32 : Advertising | c15 : Performance | c31 : Marketing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020121101e8ai006va
  


 HD
 Q2  2012 Google Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
11,221 words
   PD
19 July 2012
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©012 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day, everyone, and welcome to the Google Inc. second-quarter 2012 earnings conference call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time, I would like to turn the conference over to Willa Lo, Investor Relations Manager. Please go ahead ma'am.

   TD
WILLA LO, INVESTOR RELATIONS MANAGER, GOOGLE INC: Good afternoon everyone. Welcome to today's second-quarter 2012 earnings conference call. With us are Patrick Pichette, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Nikesh Arora, Senior Vice President and Chief Business Officer; Susan Wojcicki, Senior Vice President Advertising.

Also as you know, we've issued our earnings release through our Investor Relations website located at Investor. Google.com. Please refer to our IR website for our earnings releases as well as the supplementary slides that accompany the call. This call is also being webcast from Investor. Google.com. A replay will be available on our website later today.

Let me quickly cover the Safe Harbor. Some of the statements that we make today may be considered forward-looking including statements regarding Google's future investments, our long-term growth, and its innovation, the expected performance of our businesses and our expected level of capital expenditures. These statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially.

Please note that these forward-looking statements reflect our opinions only as of the date of this presentation, and we undertake no obligation to revise or publicly release the results of any revisions to these forward-looking statements in light of new information or future events. Please refer to our SEC filings for a more detailed description of the risk factors that may affect our results.

Please note that certain financial measures that we use on this call such as operating income and operating margin are expressed on a non-GAAP basis and have been adjusted to exclude charges related to stock-based compensation. We have also adjusted our net cash provided by operating activities to remove capital expenditures, which we refer to as free cash flow. Our GAAP results and reconciliations of non-GAAP to GAAP measures can be found in our earning press release. With that I will turn the call to Patrick.

PATRICK PICHETTE, SVP, CFO, GOOGLE INC: Thank you Willa, and good afternoon, everyone. Thank you for joining us. Well, this is a special call. As we enter into a new chapter in our history at Google here with our recent acquisition of Motorola. With it comes a new set of financial information for all of you both at a consolidated but also at the segment level.

Speaking of Motorola, it's worth noting that given the recent close of the transaction, we can expect this specific segment of our financials to continue to show some accounting variability. So for example, this quarter it's a stub period, meaning it only reflects the results since the acquisition date rather than the full quarter. And as a result of the close, we did a number of accounting adjustments typical for such transactions.

So we'll try to do our best and answer your questions on this call, and our Investor Relations team will also continue to support the analysts and investor community during this transition. Now let's quickly cover our consolidated results as well as segmented reporting for both Google and Motorola.

Our gross total consolidated revenue grew 35% year over year to $12.2 billion and 15% quarter over quarter. So again, please remember that these total consolidated numbers include a stub period for Motorola. Additionally, there was a significant year-over-year currency headwind in Q2. In fixed FX, revenue would have grown to 39% year over year instead of 35%. Google on a stand-alone gross revenue grew 21% year over year to $11 billion, and 3% quarter over quarter.

Our Google website revenue was up 21% year over year to $7.5 billion, and 3% quarter over quarter, which trends across most major geographies and verticals. Google Network revenue grew 20% year over year to $3 billion, and 2% quarter over quarter. Our other revenue line grew by 42% year over year to $439 million and 5% quarter over quarter. It's again worth noting that in fixed FX our revenue would have grown 25% year over year.

Motorola grew revenue for the stub period since May 22 at $1.3 billion. Our mobile devices revenue for that period was $843 million, encouraged by the strength of the North American Verizon franchise, driven by the RAZR Maxx sales, although we've seen also weaker revenues that were driven by the declining international sales of feature phones and mid-tier smartphones. The home business revenue was $407 million.

The core metrics of Google's stand-alone business continue to perform very well against the backdrop of a somewhat different global economic environment. Our global aggregate paid click growth was very strong, up 42% year over year, and also up 1% quarter over quarter. Our aggregate cost-per-click growth was down 16% year over year, and up 1% quarter over quarter. And please remember that the currency headwinds also obviously had a quite negative impact on the CPCs in Q2.

Turning to geographic performance of Google's stand-alone business, the US, UK and rest of the world are growing at a good pace as reflected in our results. In our earnings slides which you'll find on our Investor Relation website, you'll see that we've broken down our revenue by US, UK, and rest of world to show the impact of FX and the benefits of our hedging program. So please refer to those slides for those exact calculations.

Revenue from the US was up 20% year over year to $5 billion. Our non-US revenue accounted for 54% of our total revenue, or $6 billion, and was up 22% year over year, which includes an $81 million benefit from our hedging program. The UK was up 20% year over year to $1.2 billion, and in fixed FX terms, in fact the UK grew 22%.

Coming back to an aggregate level for the total consolidated business, other cost of revenue was $2.3 billion in Q2. Our non-GAAP operating expenses totaled $3.3 billion, which excludes stock-based compensation and charges related to the severance and benefit arrangements in connection with the Motorola acquisition of $652 million. Our non-GAAP operating profit was $4 billion in Q2, resulting in non-GAAP operating margin of 32.3%.

For stand-alone Google, our traffic acquisition costs were $2.6 billion, or 24.7% of total advertising revenue. Our other cost of revenue was $1.3 billion, and that's excluding SBC of $82 million. Our non-GAAP operating expenses were $3.1 billion, also excluding SBC of $470 million.

Finally, non-GAAP operating profit was $4 billion in Q2, resulting in a non-GAAP operating margin of 36.4%. This continued strong margin in our stand-alone Google business segment gives us the confidence to continue to fully fund our many strategic growth areas such as mobile, Android, YouTube, and Chrome. Obviously Susan and Nikesh will go into more details of our initiatives in a moment.

At Motorola, our non-GAAP operating expenses, including cost of revenue for the stub period were $1.3 billion. Keep in mind that intangible amortization of expenses and the step-up costs attributed to stand-alone Google and Motorola are included in these non-GAAP measures. And as a result, the non-GAAP operating loss at Motorola was minus $38 million in Q2, resulting in a non-GAAP operating margin of minus 3% for that specific segment.

Head count increased roughly 21,500 in Q2. Obviously Google itself added about 1,200 while the remainder of this number includes the Motorola employees who joined in the acquisition. In total, the consolidated Company ended the quarter at around 54,600 full-time employees. Our effective tax rate was 19% in Q2, and that reflects not only the mix of earnings between domestic, international, subsidiaries, and our hedges, but also capital gains offset by carried-over capital losses.

Let me quickly turn to cash management. Other income and expenses was $254 million for the quarter, which reflects gains related to a divestiture of a business, offset somewhat by lower interest income and by the impact of our FAS 133 expenses from our hedging program. For more details on OI&E, please again refer to the slides at the Company or call on our IR website.

Operating cash flow was very strong at $4.3 billion for the second quarter. CapEx for the quarter was $774 million versus last quarter at $607 million. The majority of our CapEx was spent really related to production equipment, facilities, and land purchases. And obviously we are pleased with our free cash flow which was $3.5 billion.

So now let me hand it over to Nikesh who will cover more details of our business performance in the quarter. Then Susan will cover our product highlights. Finally, we'll open up the lines for your questions. Please note that Nikesh and Susan will discuss only the stand-alone Google business and not cover Motorola. So let me turn it over to Nikesh.

NIKESH ARORA, SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT AND CHIEF BUSINESS OFFICER, GOOGLE INC: Thank you, Patrick, and hello everyone. Our business had a very strong quarter as you heard with over $11 billion in revenue. I want to talk about three broad themes today. First, how our recent big bets in the ad business are coming together into integrated platforms. I think digital advertising is really in defrag mode.

Secondly, we'll look under the hood at how our investments in Search advertising and ads quality are helping our Search business accelerate. Third, we're going to talk a bit about our enterprise business which I believe is reaching a real tipping point. Then I'll discuss some ways we're driving success for our customers and some marketing highlights.

First, our big bets. In about four years, DoubleClick has gone from strength to strength at Google. Now it is the foundation of our Display business. This quarter we announced DoubleClick Digital Marketing, the first modern ad platform for the modern digital world.

This was the biggest ever overhaul of our DoubleClick ad platform, it is used by thousands of agencies and marketeers and we manage billions of marketing spent across the world on this platform. It now spans the best of Display, rich media, exchange buying, surge, and measurement. Two of our recent Display acquisitions, Teracent and Invite Media, which both grew by over 50% last year, are also seamlessly integrated into in this platform.

At the same time, Admeld, which we acquired, is helping provide publishers control flexibility and more revenue opportunities. Our Display platform helps direct response and brand marketeers navigate the whole web. For Brands, this quarter we unveiled the Brand Activate initiative, a series of measurement and planning solutions baked directly into our platform, where our partners are building an online measurement for GRPs, or gross rating points, and a way to measure viewable impressions.

Effectively what we want to do is we want to drive more and more advertising dollars in the Brand space, and this platform's going to be an effective way for us to do that. Recently in Cannes at the big advertising festival, creative agencies loved Project Re-Brief. This was one of our demos, the possibilities of how in modern digital marketing you can use multiple media formats to make advertising successful. That is quite a change from 2004 when our four-line text ads weren't quite as exciting.

Another big bet that's parts of our integrated solutions is YouTube. I think in 2007 it was when newspapers frequently said YouTube is groping for an effective business model. I think we can declare we found our model. YouTube now unites the world through video, from the Human Rights Channel launched this quarter, to a Pew study confirming YouTube as a major global news platform. And for the first time, YouTube will be powering NBC's live streaming of the Olympics in the US, while also live streaming the games in London to 64 territories around the world.

Daily account sign ups have doubled year over year, and users uploading over 72 hours of video every minute. This quarter we released a new YouTube app for Android, helping users to find videos and following channels from mobile or tablet device. We believe YouTube is a proven winner for the whole video ecosystem. Thousands of partners are making six figures, and we're proud to work with major record labels and Hollywood studios on this platform.

In fact, earlier in May we threw an incredible digital up-front event, Brandcast, highlighting our YouTube programming partners. Slightly over 1,300 clients attended. Some of the world's biggest advertisers were there. They're making significant commitments on YouTube, including people like Unilever, AT&T, and American Express. If you're counting, that's five successful acquisitions well integrated and helping us succeed in the advertising space.

A sixth is AdMob, which helps power our mobile ads both across Android and iOS and other mobile platforms in the future. AdMob was integrated this quarter into AdWords. This has further turbo charged our ability to provide in-app advertising, that's more than 1 million advertisers with 300,000 mobile apps and 350 million devices at their fingertips. The growth of the businesses with mobile websites is stunning.

Last quarter we rolled out GoMo, which is short for go mobile. That initiative was rolled out in eight countries, including Germany, Japan, and Brazil. Mobile-friendly websites are [wider] for modern businesses and very important for our mobile Search business. In less than one year, the number of advertisers with mobile sites has doubled.

Other major upgrades to Google Analytics was made for mobile apps and the new AdMob SDK for developers rounded out an awesome quarter. For us mobile is like desktop was in 1999, smart marketeers are going to create ROI and we're developing native ad models that generate results for them. For example, we've had 15 million monthly calls for our click-to-call format exclusively available in mobile devices in the US.

Let's talk about my second theme, the secret sauce of Search advertising. This quarter showed why we are so optimistic about Search's continued growth. You know about some factors that drive Search; the overall move to digital media and new Search ad formats. I think we often underestimate one factor that you don't often read about -- the amount of effort our product engineering teams put into the quality and precision of our ads. And that just keeps getting better.

This quarter we made 72 quality improvements and launched greater option transparency for such advertisers. Effectively what this does, it improves the relevance of our ads by making it more useful to consumers, it drives better results for our partners, clients, and advertisers, and it helps improve modernization. Imagine if every single Search ad was a perfect answer that drove a conversion for a customer. I think that's the objective that our teams are aiming for.

In Q2, our improvements included better triggering of site links and ads, an improved ad rotation system, better geographical targeting, expanded match for queue ad variance, and a whole host of other improvements. As an example of benefits of these changes, the advertisers taking advantage of new close variance feature, and exact and phrase matching, are seeing roughly a 3% increase in clicks on average.

Let's talk about the third theme. Let's acknowledge where we are in our enterprise business. I think it's become clear for us that we have a serious small but growing business which is going to be a future growth engine for Google. I hope you read this week about a company who said competition was 50% more expensive than Google and not as cool. That company is now a $200,000 a year Google Apps customer. Companies, schools, and governments worldwide are moving to the Cloud faster than ever.

More than five million businesses have gone Google worldwide, with traction amongst large organizations even such as the US Department of Interior, Fairfax Media in Australia, et cetera. I think it's clear you can't fake a commitment to Cloud computing, and we've invested to build and scale a business that has gone from upstart to upper crust. Thousands of businesses switch to Google Apps from our competitors every day.

Recently we've launched products like Google Drive, Google Maps Coordinate, as well as the ability to edit documents offline, on a whole range of mobile devices and tablets. That just shows you the pace of innovation that Google is bringing to the business technology. With over 1 million active applicants with App Engine and the recent launch of Compute Engine, our Cloud platform, that makes Google's infrastructure directly available to developers and businesses.

Lets change gears. Let's talk about countries and how our performance was across the world. Across all products, growth in the Americas and Asia was steady relative to the first quarter. The US and Canada remained strong. Southern Europe slowed slightly, as it was hampered by poor macroeconomic and overall ad industry conditions, notably Spain. On the other hand, performance accelerated in Northern Europe driven by the UK.

Our clients span a full range of industries that are making the web work for their business. Let's take a few examples. Take the hotel and travel sector. In France, we worked with Orkut to revamp and improve their Search investment allocation across 23 countries. In Denmark, top travel site Momondo shifted some of their TV budgets to YouTube and other Google branding solutions.

We are particularly proud about our achievements in the automotive sector from Detroit to Bavaria. This quarter's highlights included a contract with Tesla, and a marquee deal with Audi to embed Google Earth in all of their cars. In Canada, we partnered with Ford around online video content. And GM and Toyota are investing significantly in YouTube.

Switching gears to our agency partners. They're leading the charge in the digital era. I think we have the best relationships with agencies around the world than we've ever had before. And we are being able to move those relationships to real partnerships that allows them to work with their customers to make the web work for them.

I'm particularly proud of the work this quarter with our agency partners, Starcom MediaVest Group to develop a global joint account planning project across 50 top accounts. We launched a digital training curriculum covering Google products and digital trends and were able to train over 8,000 people. Those sectors are good examples but our partnerships permeate all industries and across all countries.

Spanish health insurer Sanitas made a major investment in Search; now it has become our most efficient channel for customer acquisition online, accounting for about 25% to 35% of new customers. In France, Danone is working with us on a global initiative across our Display and YouTube products. So is a US pharmaceutical manufacturer, Shire.

Intel in China chose AdMob for a cross-platform campaign on Android in the US because of the reset AdMob provides them and the seamless solutions we offer. In Sweden, H&M is using Google+ social extensions for Search advertising. Not only does it increase traffic, but it also gives them a large number of engaged followers. They've increased their click-through rate on AdWords because of that by an average of 22%.

Let's talk briefly about marketing. Marketing is a key focus for our consumer products. And speaking about Google+, our marketing team continues to do a phenomenal job supporting our investments there. Our That's a Plus campaign is now in the US, UK, Japan, and Germany, and is helping connect communities in Google+.

Just this quarter we organized hangouts with diverse groups from Sir Richard Branson to the NBA to UEFA. And I mentioned the Cannes Lions Festival. I'm particularly proud, not only are we providing great marketing solutions to our partners and our customers, our own marketing team received two Grand Prix awards.

One for Project Re-Brief where we worked with Coca-Cola to take an old ad and make it relevant in the digital media space. And two, for our UK Wide Search campaign. Not only that, they brought back 25 additional awards -- 5 golds, 8 silvers, 12 bronze, our own mini Olympics. That's our marketing team, showing that innovation permeates everything we do.

I leave you with two final examples that show the diversity of Google's partnerships. In France, this quarter we moved forward with a commercial relationship with S&E, which effectively represents French publishers to put out-of-print books into Google Play for Android. This helps users more easily access material and enables publishers to generate additional revenue for their content.

Second, from the sublime French literary tradition to the even more sublime Doodle for Google contest. Our US winner was Wisconsin's second-grader Dylan Hoffman who in May beat a record 114,000 school children from 48 states. His school earned a $50,000 technology grant and Dylan's Doodle graced the Google home page for a day.

I think Dylan's not listening to this call, but if he is, he's had a pretty successful second quarter, as well. Congratulations and thanks to Dylan, his family and his school, from Googlers all around the world. Thanks to all the Googlers that allowed us to have such a wonderful quarter. I'm going to hand it over to Susan now.

SUSAN WOJCICKI, SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT ADVERTISING, GOOGLE INC: Thanks Nikesh. We also had a busy and productive second quarter for all of our consumer products. Let me start with Search. Our goal is to deliver technology that just works. Larry has described the perfect search engine as something that understands exactly what you mean and gives you back exactly what you want.

We've made a start towards more intelligent Search thanks to the Knowledge Graph which understands real-world things, their defining characteristics, and their connections to one another. Our Knowledge Graph currently includes more than 500 million things, people, and places, more than 3.5 billion facts about them. This includes entities like landmarks, celebrities, sports teams, works of art, and a lot more.

By summarizing related content all in one place, people not only find what they're looking for but they also make unexpected discoveries. For example, I was making plans this weekend, so I searched for the movie The Dark Knight Rises.

From the Knowledge Graph results that showed up on the right-hand of my search results, I was able to find out that the movie is coming out tomorrow, some information about the film, and which actors star in it. Since I didn't recognize all of the actors, I clicked on the photos displayed and I was able to see biographical information as well as other movies they had been in. The Knowledge Graph results also showed me related movies that other people had searched for. I discovered a number of movies including movies scheduled to come out later this year and next year that I also want to see.

The Knowledge Graph also works great on mobile. If you voice Search for Julia Roberts movies on your phone, you will see a list of her latest films in the results. And if you're running an Android device with Jelly Bean, our latest Android release, Google will actually say the list of movies back to you powered by the Knowledge Graph, in addition to giving you the traditional search results.

Also on Android, we introduced Google Now, a feature that intelligently brings you the right information at the right time. Just before you even ask for it. For example, one morning last week, Google Now told me that my commute would take 15 minutes longer than normal based on current traffic. All my excuses for being late are now gone. I didn't have to do anything. The information just showed up as a notification.

Google Now also shows me other things I may care about like weather, driving directions to my next appointment, cool places nearby, flight updates, and scores for my favorite sports teams. As you can see, we're serious about providing more intelligent results. We're moving beyond a search engine that just matches strings of words to one that understands the people, the world the way people do.

Just as the Knowledge Graph connects real-world thing, Google+ is a social spine that is starting to connect everything across Google. With the new Google+ local feature, accessible from desktop and mobile on Maps, Search, and Google+, users can find and share nearly 100 million places and local businesses like restaurants and museums.

Users can make decisions about where they want to go based on Zagat scores, summaries, and reviews from friends and people they trust who are on Google+. Once they've decided where to go they can use a new Events tab in Google+ to plan their activity and to share photos and comments before, during, and after the event.

We've also redesigned the Google+ app for both Android and iOS and we recently announced a Google+ experience for Google, for Android tablets and the iPad. More users are now accessing Google+ from mobile devices than from desktop. To date, 250 million users have upgraded to Google+, meaning they've signed up for Google+ and created a profile. We're excited about this momentum, but we know it's still early days as people build a community on Google+.

Moving on to shopping. This is another area where we're helping people more quickly turn their intentions into actions. In May we announced a new commercial model built on product listing apps. It's called Google Shopping, and our transition to the new model will be complete in the fall in the US. By having a commercial relationship with merchants, we believe consumers will see more reliable and up to date information about prices and product availability and merchants should receive higher-quality traffic to their sites.

We're also experimenting with new commercial formats on Google.com that have product summaries and larger product images. These new formats are clearly labeled sponsors and they help shoppers more easily find and compare different products, or refine searches by brand or product type. Try searching for camping tents to see an example of these new results. Users can find special offers and deals with Google Shopping and can shop with confidence when they see a Google-trusted store badge on a retailers site.

On the platform side we had a lot of key announcements and launches at our Google IO developer conference. Let me give a quick summary of the highlights. We announced 1 million new Android devices are being activated each day with more than 400 million devices now activated worldwide.

We showed off Jelly Bean, our latest version of Android, and the Nexus 7, our tablet that's built for Google Play. More than 20 billion apps have been downloaded from Google Play. We announced that Chrome has 310 million users worldwide, which is up from 160 million last May. We brought Chrome for Android out of beta, and we introduced Chrome for iOS which became the most popular free app in the apple app store within hours of its availability.

We launched our new infrastructure service product called Google Compute Engine which lets developers and businesses run Linux virtual machines on the same infrastructure that powers Google. Google Documents became editable offline and we announced Google Drive for iOS. Drive is a place to create, share, and store all your content. It's available even without an Internet connection. And it functions across Windows, Mac, Android, Chrome OS and iOS.

We have 3D cityscapes in Google Earth for mobile, announced that travelers with an Android device can now access offline maps of more than 150 countries, and expanded our Street View map -- our Street View feature in Google Maps to provide panoramic imagery in more than 3,000 cities across 40 countries.

And then of course there was Sergey's surprise demo of Google Glass with a live video hangout with skydivers wearing Google Glass and jumping out of an airship nearly a mile above downtown San Francisco and then landing on the roof of the IO Conference Center. To see this demo for yourself, you can search on project glass demo on YouTube. I definitely recommend this video. Thanks all for your time. And now back to Patrick.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thank you, Susan. I'm never going to jump off of one of these balloon planes. It was an absolutely unbelievable experience. And thanks for Sergey's innovation on that one. One more thing just before we turn to Q&A, just two announcements. One, we have just launched our Google+ Investor Relations page, which is designed really to be a great source for Google products updates and Company news relevant to investors and shareholders. So please be sure to check it out, and let the IR team know what you think of it. That's just launched about an hour ago. And as we're about to open the lines, I just also want to invite David Drummond, our Chief Legal Officer. He'll be joining Nikesh, Susan, and myself to answer any questions that you may have. Welcome, David, to the call, as well. And we're going to turn on now Jamie to the Q&A section. Let us know how you want to operate.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions)

Mark Mahaney, Citi.

MARK MAHANEY, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Two questions please. First on Motorola. The comments at the time of the acquisition was that it would be accretive. Do you still feel that that asset can be? And any thoughts you would give us as to how you would make what has been pretty consistently a loss-leading asset that's Motorola Mobile, how you would make that accretive? A product question on Search. What do you find in terms of the appetite or the interest in voice Search,? Google's had a voice Search capability for a while. But as you've noticed over time, have people more interested in using that less, the quality of that, versus whatever regular Search? How interesting do you think that is as a growth area for Google in the future of voice Search? Thank you.

PATRICK PICHETTE: So, I'll just answer the Motorola question, then let Susan jump in on the Search. On the question of Motorola, look, we're totally excited about this opportunity that we have at Motorola. Our Management team has been there only a few weeks. Clearly, everybody should expect some changes in Motorola that we have talked about the in the public domain. When we said Dennis and the Management team is there resetting and retooling it. But we have nothing really to announce right now. I think we're -- we have to let them do their work. But I can tell you there's a palpable excitement at MMI for all the employees but also for the plan.

I just want to come back, Mark, to your point on accounting. If you actually took out the accounting issues that were related to closing the transaction, whether it be the stub period, the amortization of intangibles, and some of the adjustments that were related to the acquisition, in fact on the mobile side, they didn't have -- they had a pretty stable and good quarter. There's a lot of accounting noise in the data. So I think it's going to take one or two quarters before all that noise comes out. Susan, do you want to comment on the voice Search?

SUSAN WOJCICKI: Sure. Yes, voice Search has been an area that Google has been investing in for a number of years. We believe like we have really good technology here because we've invested for so long on this. And you know, as I mentioned in my -- when I talked beforehand, now with the Jelly Bean release, we have the ability not only to ask a question but also to have the answers given back to you. I definitely recommend that you test that out. it is very powerful. We think in the right circumstances users will want to -- some users will want to type, and some users will want to have voice. And so in the circumstances where they do, we've developed a really amazing technology that is leading edge on that.

MARK MAHANEY: Thank you, Susan, thank you, Patrick.

OPERATOR: Spencer Wang, Credit Suisse.

SPENCER WANG, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: I guess one question in two parts for Patrick on Motorola. You talked a little bit about some of the accounting noise, Patrick. It doesn't sound like it's finalized yesterday. I was wondering if you could give a rough sense of the purchase price allocation in terms of the hard assets versus goodwill versus other intangibles so we can sort through some of that noise. The second part is, I was wondering if you could just talk a little about the Motorola Home business in terms of how that fits in, if you guys consider that strategic. Thanks.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Okay, so on the details of the purchase price, we haven't given in terms of the asset, and obviously the IR team can follow up with you on that. I think in our disclosures, the press release and the like, you will see, for example, intangibles was $30-some million in the case of Motorola and $32 million I believe, for Google, just on intangibles. It gives you a sense of the numbers for the stub period. As it relates to the Home business, again, a bit of the same story that I told Mark prior which is we've just got into the place, and we are in the process of evaluating every business of MMI and every division of it. So it's a little bit too early to comment on big changes now. I just need a bit of patience for us to complete our homework as we've been there just for a few weeks.

SPENCER WANG: Sure. Thanks a lot, Patrick.

OPERATOR: Carlos Kirjner, Sanford Bernstein.

CARLOS KIRJNER, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & CO.: I have two questions, one on mobile and one on Youtube. On mobile, have you conducted any studies on the impact of mobile adoption on search query demand by end users? And do you have a perspective on what portion of mobile queries are incremental versus cannibalistic for handsets and tablets? And on Youtube, I think one or two quarters ago, Nikesh referred to Google Analytics as the unsung hero of the business. Thinking about Youtube brand advertisers, how do you give them visibility into brand advertising ROI in Youtube, and do you think you'll be able to do that to get the dollars to flow and overcome the obvious challenges that you may have there?

PATRICK PICHETTE: So, Nikesh should answer the second question. Susan, on cannibalization of mobile versus desktop.

SUSAN WOJCICKI: Yes, definitely. We've spent a lot of time looking at that to try to understand how those two different types of devices and how those searches interact with each other. And the analysis is very complicated. But I will say we believe that mobile searches are mostly incremental. For example, on weekends when users are out and about, we usually see a rise in mobile activity. Then when users come back on Monday, we see a rise of desktop. So although it's not a one-for-one, we do believe that they are mostly incremental.

CARLOS KIRJNER: And does it vary, Susan, between handsets and tablets?

SUSAN WOJCICKI: In terms of queries?

CARLOS KIRJNER: No, in the incremental versus cannibalistic?

SUSAN WOJCICKI: I think we're still in the process of trying to run our analysis and try to figure that out. I think the thing that handsets and tablets have in common is they're both on the go. And people are willing to take them, although people use tablets certainly in the office environment, as well. So I would say we're still doing the analysis on that.

CARLOS KIRJNER: Okay.

PATRICK PICHETTE: So we have a clearer view on the handsets, and on tablet there's more analysis to be done. On Youtube, Nikesh?

NIKESH ARORA: Carlos, hi. Yes, on Youtube, there are two different issues, right. If you're talking about performance advertisers, they're able to look at ROI on Youtube, versus other performance media on the online space. It gets more interesting when you start talking about Brand. Because Brand is not just about the online space, Brand is also about the television space. And we've done some very exciting things with single-source panels where we worked in Germany with thousands of users and tried to look at advertising effectiveness and efficiency, not just on Youtube and online video but also compared that to television. And we're incorporating that into our Analytics and our sales pitches to show how the ROI is available on Youtube. We've noticed not only do you get higher ROI but you also get higher reach and higher frequency capabilities on Youtube because you are looking at users on a very large online platform.

CARLOS KIRJNER: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Ben Schachter, Macquarie.

BEN SCHACHTER, ANALYST, MACQUARIE RESEARCH: Two questions. I was wondering first if you could update us on Larry's health situation. And then I know it's early, but can you update us on the usage of Chrome for iOS devices? And any comments you can give to help us understand the importance of that product and also how you plan to market it? And then also, historically you've talked about self-driving cars and some of these other projects as relatively low-investment, high-media profile projects. But it seems with Google Glass and some others, they're taking more management time and focus. Should we be thinking about those differently? Thanks.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Okay, why don't I let Nikesh talk about Larry's situation. Susan can talk about the second question on iOS Chrome and then I'll just take the third one. So Nikesh?

NIKESH ARORA: There is no more new news on Larry. Larry has lost his voice. And we said that means he cannot do any public speaking engagements for the time including today's earnings call. But he continues to run the Company. And he is here and involved in all the strategic business decision that we're making. Susan?

SUSAN WOJCICKI: Yes. And on Chrome for the iOS device, from the moment we launched, it was very popular in the app store. We've seen it as one of the top apps. It's something we've invested for many years on Chrome. It has got a lot of really compelling features from security, being very fast. And we continue to expect to see growth just because of the users using it for the different features that make it a really great product.

From the other things, the self-driving cars, and Google Glass, those continue to be projects that from a headcount perspective are very -- are small, we've talked about them being small but they have the potential to be very big. And I think they are also projects that -- we sort of think about them as moon shots a lot of times, like projects that we think can have really amazing capabilities. But again, they get the Company excited, but in terms of actual resources, it's a very small number.

PATRICK PICHETTE: The fact that Sergey is actually leading the Glass project doesn't change any of the strategy. From that perspective, it's just very exciting, and fun to share it with people when we have such exciting demos. But I wouldn't change any of the strategy in terms of the real focus of Management and our capital intensity.

CARLOS KIRJNER: Thanks.

OPERATOR: Scott Devitt, Morgan Stanley.

SCOTT DEVITT, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: I have two, please. You've previously referenced the talent or last year increased cash compensation by 10%. I was just wondering given the transition of a number of companies that you compete with for talent into the public markets, could you just give an updated view on the cost and availability of talent in the valley? And then secondly, on a last 12 months basis, Google's generated $12.5 billion in unlevered free cash. So you now have an 8% unlevered free cash yield. And you're generating cash at a run rate that equates to about 30% of the current cash position. I was wondering if you could just talk a bit about the way that you're currently thinking about capital allocation or specifically a share repurchase. Thanks.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Okay, let me start with the second one first. We continue -- and I know that I sound a bit like a broken record on this, but on a very regular basis we actually debated with our Board. And our cash position is really a strategic asset to us given all the innovation that's happening and all of the options that are available to us. It has been such a -- you just take Motorola which we just closed. It was a real strategic asset to us to actually be able to pounce.

So we haven't changed our position in terms of share repurchases or dividends or any of the others for a time being, which does not mean we don't evaluate. We do take a good look at it. We just think that it continues to be a strategic asset for us. And so that's why we haven't changed our position as of yet. In the case of the talent, I think that the valley continues to be hot. It's a hotbed of innovation. There's a lot of -- a lot of need for that talent, especially at the very -- the engineering front. And we're delighted by our strategy. We continue to see really benchmark levels for our retention purposes, and we continue to attract the very best talent.

For us, it is an absolute strategic asset again for the Company. Googlers, the engineers that are here and the salespeople, they really make a huge difference to the velocity of the Company. So the valley has not changed. It continues -- despite everything else that's going on in the world out there, the valley continues to be absolutely hot. And we're so pleased to have seen our strategy pay out so well. So thanks for your question, Scott. Very good question. Let's go to our next question, please, Jamie.

OPERATOR: Heather Bellini, Goldman Sachs.

HEATHER BELLINI, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: I have two questions. First, what are you seeing in terms of mobile CPC trends, and how do you see these trends playing out over the course of the next 12 months? The second question is, with the Nexus 7 on the market, can you talk a little about your plans to accelerate content acquisition in particular in video and books, thank you.

PATRICK PICHETTE: I think Nikesh is perfectly suited for both.

NIKESH ARORA: Hi, Heather. Thank you for your question. I think the good news is that we're seeing phenomenal growth in the mobile queries across the board, whether it's tablets, whether it's mobile phones, whether it's geographical, we are seeing phenomenal amounts of mobile queries across the board. I think as I said, mobile is right now where Search was in 1999. We had a situation where we -- Susan's team was doing phenomenal product innovation to keep driving more and more efficiency for the advertisers. We were working with advertisers to get them to get better landing pages, better sites, get them to understand truly the opportunities in the mobile space.

For example, you can make phone calls. So we have a product called click to call. Now the Search takes on a whole different meaning because there's a better conversion and people actually click and make phone calls. So we are seeing mobile CPCs are healthy, and we expect in the long term that they will continue to be healthy and follow the trajectory that Search has followed. More inventory, more effectiveness, more ROI for the advertisers, better pricing in the market.

In terms of your second question, Nexus 7, I think we have made tremendous amounts of headway in the content space. We have a lot of content in Google Play. We're working closely with the music industry, with Hollywood Studios, et cetera, to get more and more content in the platform. And I think given that there are models out there where other people are offering content in the platforms, it is becoming pretty standard that you can have the ability to offer content to the end user, and we are making tremendous amounts of progress across the board.

OPERATOR: Doug Anmuth, JPMorgan.

DOUG ANMUTH, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: I just wanted to ask two things. Just first following up on the mobile CPC question. Can you just give us some color on what percentage of advertisers are bidding on smartphones and tablets in addition to the desktop? And then secondly, Patrick, can you also just help us understand the accounting around the Nexus 7 tablet and how we should be thinking about that on a gross versus net basis and the impact it may have going forward? Thanks.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Okay, so I'll let Nikesh cover the CPC, and I'll circle back after.

NIKESH ARORA: I think I already said that in my prepared remarks that we have over 1 million advertisers working with us in mobile advertising. It's over 300,000 mobile apps. So I think it's a substantive number in terms of number of advertisers that are involved in the mobile space. And I think usually people get involved in mobile space don't distinguish between smartphones and tablets. They actually -- they want to find the most effective ROI they can get and they want to capture as many queries as you can get on either device. Patrick?

PATRICK PICHETTE: The issue for the Nexus 7, we have two sets of accounting -- obviously, it's distributed on its own by others like you can get it at Best Buy and otherwise. When you use the Play store to actually buy it, we book the revenue, and then we book the cost, as well. And the cost will be other cost of revenue rather than CAG or TAG because they're neither of them. That's how the accounting is set.

SUSAN WOJCICKI: Yes. And this is Susan, just one more thing I would add, Doug, on your question about the mobile CPCs and the percentage that are bidding, is a lot of our campaign structures are set up so that when an advertiser participates and they bid, they actually can -- set up one campaign, and it can run across everything. We adjust those prices dynamically for them. We have, it's called smart pricing. And so some advertisers do bid specifically on mobile. And then some advertisers have bundled campaigns. And we adjust those prices. So it's not just advertisers that are bidding only for mobile that are participating in mobile.

OPERATOR: Justin Post, with Merrill Lynch.

JUSTIN POST, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: When you look at your international results ex FX they actually were stable or even accelerated. Yet we're hearing a lot of issues over there. Can you talk about geographic mix, what countries are doing well, or vertical mix? And any product enhancements or new products you've launched that are really helping your revenue growth there? And then secondly, TAC to distribution partners was up about $40 million quarter over quarter and continues to be a bigger chunk of your Google website revenues. What drove the quarter-over-quarter increase? Was that mostly mobile, or were there other factors? Thank you.

PATRICK PICHETTE: So let me jump on TAC, and then let Nikesh answer the first question. So TAC it's really a mix, right. It's -- obviously TAC reflects a mix of different distribution methods that include toolbars, Chrome distribution, mobile distribution, and also obviously the AFS business, as well. So there's -- if you look at our revenue mix between Google Properties and Network, Network was a tad stronger. So that will drive TAC, as well. And then in mobile is also one of these contributing factors. We don't break down all the specifics, but it's not only mobile. We have a number of factors that are at play here. On the first question, I'll let Nikesh circle back to you.

NIKESH ARORA: I alluded to some of this in the prepared remarks. I think as I said, growth in the Americas and Asia has been steady this quarter. The US and Canada have stayed strong. As I mentioned, as you said, there have been some issues internationally. Southern Europe we saw a slight dip as we think it is hampered both by pure macroeconomic conditions and overall ad industry concerns. Spain was a notable lowlight or highlight depending on which way you look at it in that conversation.

On the other hand, performance accelerated for us in Northern Europe driven by the UK. UK has been a little depressed over the last few quarters. It's finally coming back, and we're seeing strength again.

In terms of your question around the sectors, I'd say travel has been strong pretty much across the board in the US and the UK and around the world. Auto was strong in the US for us. Health care has been strong in the UK. And generally across the world, we've seen strong sort of performance both in finance and local. And we are seeing more and more sort of excitement and enthusiasm in sectors like CPG and entertainment given the shift to Brand. But I'd say this is a snapshot in time. These things change quarter over quarter.

JUSTIN POST: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Anthony DiClemente, Barclays.

ANTHONY DICLEMENTE, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: One I think for Susan. Just if you can help us with the order of the magnitude of the drivers of the divergence that we continue to see between CPCs and volume. In the past you've talked about -- of course mobile is one of those drivers. But then FX, we have a sense of that property mix, emerging markets, and ad quality changes is all driving that. I was wondering if you could give us an order of magnitude of how important each of those few drivers were in the quarter, and then how we should think about those trending going forward, if we should expect that divergence to normalize or should we actually expect it to continue to diverge? That would be helpful. Thank you very much.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Susan, you want to give some comments on it, or Nikesh?

NIKESH ARORA: I think I have the CPC better on this quarter. You can't have a good earnings call if you don't talk about CPC. So here we go. CPC is an important metric for us. But if you take that independently, it's not necessarily a reflection of the fundamental health of our business. This quarter I'd say the biggest impact in CPC was actually FX. We have four or five factors that impact CPC, but the biggest impact this quarter was FX. We have clearly an impact of mobile versus tablet versus desktop. We have an impact of emerging versus developed markets and what's happening from a macroeconomic point of view as we talked about. We have an impact of Google.com versus Network, so as you see TAC or you see Network playing a bigger role it impacts CPC.

Finally, ads quality changes also impacts CPC. I would say this quarter the impact has been felt because of FX. But from a positive perspective, we see any time there's a change in CPC, which is more attractive for the advertiser, that allows the advertisers get a better ROI. So for us it's an opportunity for the advertiser.

PATRICK PICHETTE: It's important to note that the 16% -- there was a big chunk of it that was CPC versus last quarter. As the euro went down 9% year over year, it obviously makes a big difference. Thanks for your question.

ANTHONY DICLEMENTE: Okay. That's the biggest one. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Ken Sena, Evercore Partners.

KEN SENA, ANALYST, EVERCORE PARTNERS: Can you maybe talk a little bit more about the Offers business and do you feel as strongly about that business as you did in the past and maybe how that business actually will come into play with Google+ or Payments or Maps? Thank you.

SUSAN WOJCICKI: Yes. Hi, Ken. So yes, Offers continues to be an area that we're investing in. We have -- we think that there's a lot of things that are really important about Offers. The way it's a local business, it works with both small and large business. It's got -- it's very -- there's a lot of user interest in it. So it is an area that we are continuing to invest in. We are also as we continue to develop it our business model continues to evolve. And for example, we're putting a little -- we're working with a lot of different offers and providing distribution for them in addition to generating our own offers with our own sales team. But it continues to be an important area for us, and we will continue to invest in it in the cities that we are currently operating in.

KEN SENA: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Ron Josey, ThinkEquity.

RON JOSEY, ANALYST, THINKEQUITY: Going back to mobile and the opportunity there, Nikesh I thought it might be interesting if you could talk a little about perhaps what you've seen in terms of the campaign. That there's been an acceleration now that AdMob is fully integrated into AdWords knowing that there's over 1 million advertisers and 300,000 apps. Wondering if there's been acceleration since that's happened. Thank you.

NIKESH ARORA: Hi, thanks, great question. I think as I said we are seeing phenomenal amount of growth in the mobile query space. And it's the consequence of more device, it's a consequence of more adoption of tablets around the world, it's also a consequence of people getting more and more comfortable with their devices and using them more often. So with the number of question asked around the AdMob, AdMob just got completed in early June. So it's a bit early to say we're seeing acceleration.

But generally our performance throughout that integration has been very strong. We've effectively had a very -- what we've done about six months ago is we took all of our sales efforts, and we took our specialist mobile salespeople and had them train all of our sales forces around the world. That in fact has even contributed more than just that integration part. But we think the integration is just going to turbocharge that effort, and hopefully continue to help us drive mobile. And mobile's going to be here for a while. I think that's a fact of life for us now. We are -- mobile's sort of becoming as core as desktop Search was. So we're making sure that all of our salespeople around the world are fully equipped and working with every advertiser, not just 1 million, to make sure that people can see ROI in both mobile and desktop simultaneously.

RON JOSEY: Great. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Jason Maynard, Wells Fargo.

JASON MAYNARD, ANALYST, WELLS FARGO SECURITIES, LLC: I have one question just on the shift of mobile. And specifically around this will be both Nexus as well as Motorola. How important to you do you think it is for ultimate mobile monetization to actually control the whole experience on the device? And given that you've got all sorts of different competitors, some who subsidize evidently, some obviously selling full-price hardware/software combos, what do you think the right mix is for Google, and when do you think you'll sort this be out and be a little bit more declarative in the market with your intentions? Thanks.

NIKESH ARORA: I think I will -- this is Nikesh again Jason. Thanks again for your question. As I said, mobile is very, very important. I think it's better to go back and think about what's happening in the marketplace. We said we're very committed to mobile. It's evident in our commitment to Android and our ecosystem, as well as our Motorola acquisition. We believe that mobile is very very important, critical to the future.

I know it seems a little complicated when you look at the different competitors and how you talked about subsidies, et cetera. We simplify that by focusing on how do we provide the best experience to the user. Providing the better experience to the user is effectively working really hard with Andy Rubenstein on Android, making sure he's creating the best experience for the end user. And in that process he works with the best OEMs in the marketplace to make sure that the combination of hardware and software allows for the best experience to be delivered. I think for us what's important is to get that experience delivered, and we will work with whatever industry models are out there. Either we work directly with operators to try and make sure that happens at the hands of the end user, and more often than not we work with OEMs to see how we can get the best-of-breed experience in the hands of the end user. I think that's what we're going to be focused on. So I think that's quite declarative in terms of intentions.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Just to close, open is really important to Google. And in that context, you see our strategy is very focused on end users and being open. We're going to get a lot of benefit -- we already have and continue to get a lot of benefit out of that. So it's a complex question, though, Jason, there's no doubt about it. Thank you so much for your question. Let's go to our next question, please.

OPERATOR: Lloyd Walmsley, Deutsche Bank.

LLOYD WALMSLEY, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Wondering if you could tell us a little bit about the rollout of the shift to paid inclusion for Google Shopping and when you expect it to be fully rolled out. What you're seeing today in terms of paid clicks and CPCs now that some of the shopping links have been moved to higher-end results, and where do you think CPCs there can go relative to just core paid Search.

PATRICK PICHETTE: I'll let Susan answer this one. Susan?

SUSAN WOJCICKI: Yes. Lloyd, so we made this decision to move to a commercial model because we felt that ultimately this would drive a better experience for users in having more up to date information, more accurate price, inventory availability, and so we are in the process of rolling that out. We think it will be rolled out, we expect probably completed around the Q4 timeframe. We are working really hard with all the merchants to get them all on board. And again, we think this is actually really good for both the merchants and the users. We actually don't refer to this as paid inclusion. Just -- that actually is a term from the people have been in the industry for a really long time of meaning putting in paid things into the Search results in a nonmarked way. We're very, very clear when we show this. We do mark everything very clearly as sponsored, and again we believe that actually moving to this model is good for both users and for the merchants. And we're really looking forward to this transition. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Kevin Kopelman, Cowen and Company.

KEVIN KOPELMAN, ANALYST, COWEN AND COMPANY: Could you give us a sense of how big your mobile Search queries are as a percentage of total Search queries? And also on Motorola, I know you're not giving us a business update. Could you give us what the Android unit growth was in the quarter on a pro forma basis? Thanks.

PATRICK PICHETTE: On the last one, there -- on the mobile side, the non home side, it's all Android. And on the Search query splits, we don't actually provide the details. We provide the geographic split but don't give the details of the other one. So I'm sorry, Kevin, if we can't be more helpful in the granular details on this issue. Let's see, we have time for one more question. Let's jump on one last question. Jamie?

OPERATOR: Jason Helfstein, Oppenheimer.

JASON HELFSTEIN, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER & CO.: I'll just help you just two. One, can you just talk about the growth of Google+ member growth. Are you happy -- I think you alluded to how that's going. What can you do to drive faster member growth, and is that part of the strategy, or you just let it organically evolve? Kind of a push versus a pull strategy there? Second, can you give us a breakdown of depreciation between Motorola and MMI for the quarter? Thanks.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Well, you'll have in the segmented reporting, you'll find that information. So after the call, this is for your second question, Jason. On the issue of depreciation, I think that the team can circle back with you and give you the split because we do the segmented reporting. On the first question, which is about Google growth and our success there, why don't I let Susan cover that one.

SUSAN WOJCICKI: Sure. Yes, so we -- overall we've been really pleased with the growth that we've seen. We talked about the 250 million accounts that we have at Google+ accounts. And I do think it's also really important to remember that Google+ just celebrated its one-year anniversary. We actually celebrated at IO. And so we see the Google+ account growth as going really well. We think that one of the most important things is that when you have a Google+ account you have the ability to share. We've talked about Google+ being the social spine across all of our products, the ability to make all of our products better. Not just the stream which is an important part but also, for example, your Search experience. So that if I have a friend, the friend went to a hotel, and +1 that hotel, if I'm going to that same location, I would be able to see that information at the time that I'm doing that search. And so we have many, many use cases where we thinking about part of Google+ will be a better experience. So we're working across the board to make sure that our products are integrated, we have a number of integrations across the products, probably local was the most significant one that we did this quarter. We find that having those integrations by making the products better also drives more usage of Google+. So yes, thank you, Jason, that was an important question.

JASON HELFSTEIN: Thank you.

PATRICK PICHETTE: And with that, we've got to run. I want to do two things. One is thank Nikesh and Susan as well as David for joining you for the call and Q&A. Also, thank all our Googlers. These last 90 days and the great results that we're posting now and the beginning of the collaboration and integration of Motorola, all these things are possible because our Googlers do phenomenal jobs every single day. So I want to thank everybody, and then as I close, remember, go and look at our Google+ website for Investor Relations. And I think you'll find it pretty interesting. So with that, Jamie, I'll let you close the call and wish everybody a happy summer.

OPERATOR: Thank you, sir. That does conclude today's conference. We do appreciate everyone's participation.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
goog : Google Inc.
   IN
iappsp : Cloud Computing/SaaS | iindstrls : Industrials | i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i8394 : Computer Services | icomp : Computing | itech : Technology | i8395464 : Internet Search Engines | iint : Internet/Online Services
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | c32 : Advertising | c15 : Performance | c31 : Marketing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020120802e87j0005n
  


 HD
 Q1  2012 Google Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
11,300 words
   PD
12 April 2012
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©012 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day, everyone, and welcome to the Google Inc. first-quarter 2012 earnings conference call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time, I would like to turn the conference over to your host, Director of Investor Relations, Ms. Jane Penner. Please go ahead, ma'am.

   TD
JANE PENNER, DIRECTOR IR, GOOGLE INC.: Good afternoon, everyone, and welcome to today's first-quarter 2012 earnings conference call. With us are Larry Page, Chief Executive Officer; David Drummond, Senior Vice President Corporate Development, and Chief Legal Officer; Patrick Pichette, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Nikesh Arora, Senior Vice President and Chief Business Officer.

Also, as you know, we distribute our Earnings Release through our Investor Relations website located at www.Investor.Google.com. Please refer to our IR website for our Earnings Releases, as well as the supplementary slides that accompany the call. This call is also being website from www.Investor.Google.com. A replay of the call will be available on our website in a few hours.

Now, let me quickly cover the Safe Harbor. Some of the statements that we make today may be considered forward-looking, including statements regarding Google's future investments, our long-term growth and innovation, the expected performance of our business, and our expected level of capital expenditures. These statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially. Please note that these forward-looking statements reflect our opinions only as of the date of this presentation. And we undertake no obligation to revise or publicly release the results of any revisions to these forward-looking statements in light of new information or future events. Please refer to our SEC filings for a more detailed description of the risk factors that may affect our results.

Please note that certain financial measures that we use on this call, such as operating income and operating margin, are expressed on a non-GAAP basis, and have been adjusted to exclude charges related to stock-based compensation. We have also adjusted our net cash provided by operating activities to remove capital expenditures, which we refer to as free cash flow. Our GAAP results and reconciliations of non-GAAP to GAAP measures can be found in our earnings press release.

With that, I will now turn the call over to Larry.

LARRY PAGE, CEO, GOOGLE INC.: Thank you. Hi, everyone, and thanks for joining the call today. It's great to be here with all of you. I'll talk about our new class of stock at the end of my remarks, but first I want to focus on our performance. We had a very strong quarter, with revenue up 24% year-on-year, at $10.6 billion. Since becoming CEO again last April, I've pushed hard to increase our velocity, improve our execution, and focus on the big bets that will make a difference in the world. Google's a large company now, but it will achieve more and do it faster if we approach life with the passion and the soul of a start-up.

This has involved a lot of clean-up. We've given many of our products, including search, a visual refresh so they now have a more consistent look and feel. And we've closed or combined over 30 products. We have so many opportunities that, without hard choices, we end up spreading ourselves too thin, and don't have the impact that we strive for.

Creating a simpler, more intuitive user experience across Google has been another important focus. I've always believed that technology should do the hard work -- logistics, scheduling and communications -- so users can get on with what makes them happiest -- life. Our products work seamlessly together so people don't have to navigate Google to get stuff done.

Chrome for Android, which launched this quarter, is a great example of this kind of simplicity we're shooting for. It has made switching between devices painless. All of your tabs are there across your desktop and Android. You can even click the back button on a different device, and it just works. Just try it out, it's a great experience.

It's the same with Google Play, which we also shipped this quarter. You can now access all your movies, your books, apps and games from the web or from your Android device. No cables, downloading or syncing required. We spent years working with partners to get all of this great content. So, it's really exciting to see it brought together in a beautifully simple way that people can enjoy.

Google+ was truly at the heart of our efforts to create a simpler, more intuitive experience for all of our users. You should think of it in two parts. One is just our social spine. Once you're logged in and have upgraded to Google+, you're just using one Google, not a series of disconnected products. It's still early days, but with over 120 Google+ integrations to-date, we're on the right track.

And your user experience on Google just gets better. You can see friends' recommendations when you're using Google Play. And you don't think about that as Google+, but it just comes from that infrastructure. And we're seeing a positive impact all across the web. Google users can now recommend search results they like, a goal we've had ever since we started the Company.

The other part is the social destination, which is accessed on your Mobile Clients or on www.Plus.Google.com. This social destination part grew from a base of zero, not starting with all Google usage, like the part I was previously talking about, and is growing quickly. In fact, we see impressive engagement and fast growth here. It's just not all of Google. We are starting up a new community. We're excited about the amazing speed with which some people have amassed over 1 million followers. And I have just been lucky enough to pass 2 million. I get high-quality feedback on the public posts I make, which I really enjoy.

And every day we make Google+ better. Just yesterday we took another big step forward with a beautiful new UI for Google+. And the new customizable navigation ribbon, in that redesign makes it much easier to access your favorite apps. There's better discoverability for hangouts, and you'll love the larger images that you see across that interface.

Last time there was a bit of confusion over the metrics I gave about Google+. So, I want to be clear about these two parts of Google+, and the fact that we have made great progress on both parts. As you would expect, the social spine is proportional to Google and all of the users across Google. And Google is pretty big. Well over 170 million people have now upgraded to Google+.

So, to summarize, there are two parts to the Google+ experience. The part that is the social spine, and the other part that is the social destination part of Google+ exclusively. Both of these are growing fast. But the social destination part of Google+ is growing as a new product with very healthy growth.

I'm also excited by our big bets. We have some amazing new products that were seen as crazy when we launched them, but now have phenomenal usage. They can easily pass the toothbrush test -- they're important enough that millions of people use them at least once or twice a day. Chrome has over 200 million users. Our display business has reached an annualized run rate of over $5 billion. And 850,000 Android devices are activated every day. And YouTube just keeps on growing. The usage is staggering, even by Google's standard. They had over 800 million monthly users, uploading over an hour of video per second. I'm incredibly proud of these achievements. They wouldn't have been possible without an amazing team of Googlers, and the long-term focus with which we are able to run the Company, which brings me to this afternoon's announcement about our stock.

Now, throughout our evolution, from being a privately-held start-up to a large publicly-listed company, we have managed Google for the long term. And enjoying tremendous success as a result, especially since our IPO in 2004. The founders, Sergey and I, really hoped, though we did not expect, that Google would have such significant impact. And that this progress has made us even more impatient to do important things that matter in the world. Our enduring love for Google comes from a strong desire to create technology products that enrich millions of people's lives in deep and meaningful ways. To fulfill these dreams, we need to ensure that Google remains a successful, growing business that can generate significant returns for everyone involved.

When we went public in 2004, we established some clear, well-publicized expectations for investors around our governance. We wrote a couple of things in our original founder's letter I just want to read here. New investors will fully share in Google's long-term economic future, but will have little ability to influence its strategic decisions through their voting rights. And we are creating a new corporate structure that is designed for stability over the long time horizons. By investing in Google, you're placing an unusual long-term bet on a team, especially Sergey and me. I wanted to quote all that because these were the clear, well-publicized expectations we established for investors. And while this decision was controversial at the time, we believe with hindsight it was absolutely the right thing to do. Eight years later, these statements are still remarkably accurate, and everyone involved has realized tremendous benefits.

Given Google's success, it's unsurprising this type of dual-class governance structure is now somewhat standard among newer technology companies. In our experience, success is more likely if you concentrate on the long term. Technology products often require significant investment over many years to fulfill their potential. For example, it took three years just to ship our first Android handset. And then another three years on top of that before the operating system truly reached critical mass. These kind of investments are not for the faint hearted. Long-term product investments, like Chrome and YouTube, which now enjoy phenomenal usage, were made with a significant degree of independence.

However, day-to-day dilution from routine, equity-based employee compensation and other possible dilution such as stock-based acquisitions, will likely undermine this dual-class structure and our aspirations for Google over the very long term. We have put our hearts into Google, and hope to do so for many years to come, so we want to ensure that our corporate structure can sustain these efforts and our desire to improve the world.

Today, we announced plans to create a new class of non-voting capital stock. These shares will be distributed via stock dividend to all existing stockholders. The owner of each existing share will receive one new share of the non-voting stock, giving investors twice the number of shares they had before. Effectively, a two-for-one stock split, something many of our investors have long asked us for. These non-voting shares will be available for corporate uses like equity-based employee compensation that might otherwise dilute our governance structure.

In November 2009, Sergey and I published plans to sell a modest percentage of our overall stock, tending in 2015. We are currently halfway through those plans, and we don't expect any changes to that, certainly not as a result of this new potential class. We both remain very much committed to Google for the long term. It's important to bear in mind that this proposal will only have an effect on governance over the very long term. In fact, there's no particular urgency to make these changes now. We don't have an unusually big acquisition planned, in case you were wondering.

Investors and others have always taken a big bet on Sergey and me. And that bet will likely last longer as a result of these changes. We are honored that so many of you have put your trust in us, and recognize the tremendous responsibility that rests on our shoulders. We think this is a good thing because users rely on Google to produce and operate amazing technology products, and to safely and responsibly store their data. That is our passion.

Thank you very much. And I will now hand over to David to explain some of the more technical aspects of this proposal.

DAVID DRUMMOND, SVP CORPORATE DEVELOPMENT AND CHIEF LEGAL OFFICER, GOOGLE: Thanks, Larry. So, first of all, I wanted to say that we'll be filing a proxy statement soon, which will have more details about today's proposal. But for now, I want to give a few broad strokes. First off, as Larry said, what we announced today is basically a two-for-one stock split. And here's how it works. What we're doing is creating a new class of stock, Class C. That new stock will have equivalent rights to our existing Class A and Class B stock, except it will have no voting rights. And it will also be issued through a stock dividend on all Class A and Class B shares. So, after the dividend, the stockholder who currently owns one share of Class A common stock with a single vote will continue to own that share plus one share of Class C capital stock that does not have a vote. Our existing Class A shares will continue to trade as they do now. And the new Class C shares will also be listed, so stockholders will be able to trade those shares, the Class C, just as they can with the Class A shares today.

Now, one thing to emphasize. Because all stockholders will be treated equally, and will receive one share of Class C for every share they now hold, everyone, including Larry, Sergey and Eric, will retain the same voting interest they had immediately prior to the dividend. It's also important to note that as part of this, Larry, Sergey and Eric have all agreed to subject their shares to a transfer restriction agreement. This agreement maintains the same link between their voting and economic interests that exist today. So, if any of Larry, Sergey or Eric sell or transfer their non-voting Class C shares, there's a stapling provision in the agreement that requires them to either sell an equal number of Class B shares or convert an equal number of Class B shares into Class A shares. Now, the stapling requirement will end when their ownership levels fall below certain thresholds. So, the basic thing to understand here is that the stapling provision is designed so that, subject to these thresholds, the votes held by the founders and Eric will be reduced proportionately as their economic interest in the Company declines.

Now, a word about the process we used. Our Board of Directors carefully considered this proposal to create a new class of stock before reaching a decision. The process the Board followed was robust, and the deliberations were extensive. Back in January 2011, the Board established a special committee comprised of independent non-management Board members to consider this new class of stock or other alternatives. The committee met on numerous occasions over the 15 months that the special committee considered the proposal, and that was separately from the Board. The committee recommended and the Board unanimously approved today's proposal.

In terms of next steps, the proposal is subject to the approval of a majority of the voting power of Google's common stock. And they'll vote together as a class. That will happen at our annual meeting on June 21 of this year. Given that Larry, Sergey and Eric control the majority of voting power, and support the proposal, we expect it to pass. Following that, the Board will set a record date for the dividend, and move the process forward. So, for more detail on the proposal, you can find the founder's letter that Larry and Sergey issued this morning, as well as a postscript from me on our investor relations site. And as I said, next week we'll file a preliminary proxy statement with the SEC, which will have even more details about today's proposal.

With that, I'll turn it over to Patrick to talk about the quarter.

PATRICK PICHETTE, SVP AND CFO, GOOGLE INC.: Thank you, David. Good afternoon, everyone. And thank you for joining us. Closing this first year with Larry leading Google as CEO, all of us at Google feel a renewed sense of velocity, focus, and optimism. And our Q1 operating, but also financial, results are a good reflection of this spirit. So, let's jump right into the financials.

Our gross revenue grew 24% year-over-year to $10.6 billion, 1% quarter-over-quarter. And our Google websites also grew, revenue grew 24% to $7.3 billion, with strength across most major geographies and verticals. Google's network revenue was up 20% year-over-year to $2.9 billion, 1% quarter-over-quarter. And network revenue was still negatively impacted by the search quality changes we began to make a year ago in late February, otherwise known as Panda. Other revenue was up 56% year-over-year to $420 million, and 2% quarter-over-quarter. Our aggregate paid click growth was very strong, just shy of 40%, up 39% year-over-year, and up 7% quarter-over-quarter. Aggregate cost per click growth was down 12%, and down 6% quarter-over-quarter.

So, given the recent trends in CPCs and clicks, allow me to spend a bit of time today addressing this. The most important thing for you to understand is that our business is healthy. We believe that shifts in CPC and paid clicks, taken independently, really do not reflect the fundamental health of our business. Now, allow me some details on this. In general, we attribute these trends to a combination of really five core factors. Those include FX, and then there's three mix effects. For example, the mobile versus tablet versus desktop shifts; emerging markets versus developed market shifts; and even the basics of Google.com versus our network. And then finally, ad quality changes, which is also a huge factor. So, as you can see, it's a complex set of dynamics with multiple variables at play.

Many in the financial community have tried to isolate, or often I hear, pick one of these among these factors, as the primary driver for CPC or click trends. Some even say it's all about mobile. Others suggest that it indicates weakness in demand for Google advertising. On the latter point, I want to be very clear that's not the case. One important signal we have for advertiser demand is bidding behavior. And in fact, our advertisers' bid continue to be very strong, and are growing.

So, the dynamics around CPCs and paid clicks are just simply very complex because of all of these big factors, and change continually. So, trying to pick a horse, so-to-speak, just doesn't make sense. We internally track all these factors with the help of a number of statisticians, economists and engineers, who dig into all these details on an ongoing basis.

So, we won't go into that level of detail every quarter. But again, the key thing to understand is that we believe that shifts in CPC or paid clicks, taken independently, simply don't reflect the fundamental health of our business, which we believe is actually very healthy. If anything, the recent lower CPCs present a great opportunity for advertisers to get an even better return on their ad spend. And lower cost, better ROI, attract advertisers, and thus this is good for Google for the long term, as well. So, enough said on CPCs and paid clicks.

Let's just turn to geographic performance. The US, UK and rest of world are growing still at a good pace, as reflected in our results. In our earnings slides, which you'll find on our Investor Relations website, you'll see that we've broken down our revenue by US, UK and rest of world to show the impact of FX and the benefits from our hedging programs. So, please refer to those slides for the exact calculations.

Our revenue in the US was up 22% year-over-year to $4.9 billion. Our non-US revenue accounted for 54% of our total revenue, or $5.8 billion, up 26% year-over-year, which includes modest $37 million benefits from our hedging program. The UK was up 19% year-over-year to $1.2 billion.

Let me now turn to expenses. Our traffic acquisition costs were $2.5 billion or 24.5% of total advertising revenue. Our other cost of revenue was $1.2 billion, excluding stock-based compensation of $74 million. Finally, operating expenses, excluding SBC again, totaled $3 billion. SBC totaled $482 million for the quarter. And the increase year-over-year in OpEx was primarily due to payroll, increased advertising and promotional spend, and professional services.

So, as a result of all this, our non-GAAP operating profit was $3.9 billion for Q1, resulting in a non-GAAP operating margin slightly above 37%. These robust margins give us the confidence to continue to fully fund these strategic growth areas such as mobile, Android, YouTube, Chrome, all the areas that Larry talked about. And Nikesh will go into more details of these initiatives in a minute.

Turning to headcount, which was approximately 610 for the quarter, and we ended up the quarter with roughly 33,077 employees full-time. Our effective tax rate was lower this quarter, 18%. And this reflects the mix of earnings between domestic and international subsidiaries, and hedges. And also some capital gains offset by carried-over capital losses.

So, now let me turn to cash management. Other OI&E, so, other income and expenses was $156 million for the quarter, positive. And it reflects a higher realized gain on our investments, offset somewhat by lower interest income, and by the impact of our FAS 133 expenses from our hedging program. For more details on OI&E, once again I refer you to the slides that accompany us on our IR website. Operating cash flow was very strong, $3.7 billion.

CapEx for the quarter was $607 million versus last quarter at $951 million. The majority of our CapEx spend was related to production equipment this quarter, as well as data center operations and facilities. As a reminder, we will continue to make significant CapEx investments. And these have shown to be lumpy from quarter to quarter, mostly depending on when we're able to make these investments. So, in total, very pleased with our free cash flow, $3.1 billion.

Let me close with my usual reminder that our revenues typically exhibit seasonality in the first half of the year, while our expenses do less so. So, it's just a forewarning for everybody who is tuning their models.

I'll hand off now to Nikesh who will cover in more detail our business performance in the quarter. Additionally, since Susan, who is typically on the call, is on a well-deserved spring break with her family this week, Nikesh will also cover some of the product highlights, primarily in ads. With this, I'll turn it over to Nikesh.

NIKESH ARORA, SVP, CHIEF BUSINESS OFFICER, GOOGLE INC.: Thank you, Patrick. I will now give you an update on our business activities. As Larry and Patrick have mentioned, we had another quarter of excellent performance, resulting in $10.6 billion of revenue this quarter. Our results are actually reflective of three major trends that are happening in the online advertising space. Let me just touch upon those.

First, we're seeing a big move to solutions. Our clients and partners more and more want complete solutions that work across all screens -- desktop, mobile, tablet, and, in the future, television. And also work with all kinds of formats, whether they're search, display or video ads, rather than having individual solutions with different devices and formats. So, we're driving our teams to sell solutions across the entire marketing funnel. From building brand awareness to conversions, we are converging our teams of over 8,000 people to selling these complete solutions in 60 countries, making us one of the largest online solutions player.

Secondly, the big trend is -- we're seeing a breakthrough on brands. More than at any point in the last decade of online advertising, we're at a point where major brand advertisers, from movie studios to CPG companies, are finally looking to digital media as a central part of their marketing efforts. We are making huge progress. YouTube has gone from an interesting ad buy to a key buy for brands. In May we'll be hosting our first upfront for brands and agencies showcasing the latest channel content and opportunities for marketeers, something television has been doing forever, we will do that for YouTube [in the year].

Third, we're beginning to see a trend on cross media measurement. Search advertising has always been highly measurable, and we have been leading the industry in extending the measurability. Not only in search, but in display, mobile and now video. We're actually taking that one step further, and trying to move that measurability into offline sales. Our experience is that businesses may allocate experimental budgets to new areas, but they invest serious money only when they can measure the results. We are rolling out best-of-breed measurement technologies so all clients can measure their ROI, whether their goals are online conversions, brand lifts, or just the ability to compare offline and online media.

Let's talk about some specific product areas. Search -- our desktop search business has maintained robust growth with strong traction with our top partners around the world, even in the face of economic uncertainties that we've been noticing in Europe. I think search advertising has broken through that sound barrier of being an online channel, which has now finally proven to drive in-store sales. For example, we partnered with Ikea in Italy in a study showing that each click on a page search ad generates $7.60 in revenue. That interaction with paid search, in conjunction with television, drives 20% of contribution to sales. There's a lot of room to improve on that, but it's a clear demonstration of how online advertising is no longer just restricted to online sales but also having a huge impact in the offline world. Last week we launched a range of features to improve location targeting, so that marketeers can reach users by zip code, or have their physical location show up more prominently in their ads.

In sales, I want to highlight Google Analytics, which is an unsung hero. Over 10 million marketeers on web sites globally use Google Analytics to measure the effectiveness of their online presence in real time, from large eCommerce sites to small blogs. That means that our technology is at the heart of over 10 million businesses, helping them get the most out of the web. Last quarter we made several important improvements to Google Analytics, helping marketeers to measure the impact of the traffic from across over 400 social networks. I didn't even know there were 400 social networks.

Let's talk about display. On display, we saw robust revenue growth, as our clients continued to see the value of integrated advertising solution in driving business results. For example, we signed a deal with Unilever in Brazil for a campaign that ran across all Google properties, including Youtube, search, Google Display Network and Gmail. We also recently partnered with leading sportswear company, Reebok, to develop a global display campaign across YouTube and AdMob, and Mobile YouTube, as well.

On the platform side in display, we continue to make progress. We are now the leading platform provider for agencies and publishers to help drive their business using display advertising. We are focused on building a unified buying and selling platform that helps them manage their advertising across all media much better than they have been able to in the past.

Our good relationships with our clients are helped by rapid product development and innovation. Last quarter we launched the Google Display Network tab in AdWords, which makes it easier for all AdWords clients to build, monitor, and refine display campaigns across millions of sites in our network. This is helping bring the world of search in display even closer.

Let's take a minute to talk about YouTube. As I mentioned, YouTube is an amazing success story. It's gone from an interesting buy to an obvious buy. Our watched paid sales have accelerated, particularly in key emerging countries, but also in mature ones. Today, most of our instream ads in YouTube are skippable via our TrueView ad format, which is fast becoming an online video standard. It's great for users, and it's great for advertisers. For example, the UK mobile operator O2 is actively now using YouTube to support their brand launch. They're using several YouTube products, including TrueView, YouTube Mobile. They even live-streamed the New Year's Eve concert from the O2 arena in London globally on YouTube.

In addition to this, we're also rolling out our 100 new original channels on YouTube featuring top talents like Jay-Z, Madonna, Tony Hawk, as well as innovative new media companies, and YouTube's old successful partners. We think YouTube is fast becoming the platform for the next generation of channels, which is great because we're also seeing initial success selling the sponsorships for these channels to large advertisers such as Toyota, Unilever, GM. This is all in anticipation of the big up-front event coming up in May.

Let's change gears and talk about mobile. Mobile is quickly becoming a backbone of many clients' overall advertising strategies, and has huge headroom to grow. We continue to innovate with our product offerings with a number of new tools for advertisers. One development we're particularly excited about is our new enhanced click-to-download format. This format in search helps marketeers and developers promote apps. These things help improve ROI. They provide users with more relevant download information about apps, such as star rankings, pricing, et cetera. And all this happens right in the ad created. So, we keep actively working to help develop the mobile ecosystem, from enabling mobile commerce to empowering local businesses.

In Q1, we began to scale our GoMo campaign, which is our Go Mobile campaign. This initiative helps businesses get more and more assertive, and set up great mobile websites, so they can keep driving traffic to those websites and expand their businesses. We've done these efforts across the world -- in North and South America, in Europe, in Asia, and Africa.

Moving beyond advertising, our enterprise business also saw excellent progress, as large organizations and small businesses continue to see the value of Google Apps as a cost-effective and feature-rich productivity suite. Some of our top customers to go Google in Q1 include global pharmaceutical company, Roche, more than 90,000 users; the state of Colorado, which announced they intend to move 26,000 employees and users to Google. Also the Universities of Pennsylvania and Rome have gone Google. Not only that, small business adoption of Google Apps is on fire, with SMB sign-ups almost doubling in the past six months. So, we're happy with the business, and we're happy with the way enterprise continues to progress.

Let me go back and show some more color on the country performance, that Patrick also talked about. From a regional perspective, we saw generally stable performance in the Americas. We saw sustained traction in most parts of Europe, and we saw acceleration in Asia. All this was driven by strong performance from our long-tailed sales channel. Growth in North America was steady, as US revenue was boosted by seasonal events such as Super Bowl, Valentine's Day, tax season. Canada was a little slower.

Growth in Western Europe was robust in spite of the macroeconomic conditions. We continued seeing good growth in the UK. Germany, France and Italy grew slightly less quickly than before. We saw strong acceleration in Asia. Japan grew faster this quarter, led by successes again in our small- to medium-client base.

Let's talk about marketing and our partnerships business. Our marketing partnership teams continue to support the fantastic growth we've seen this quarter across all of our business lines, products and services. We continue to roll out initiatives to support Google+, which Larry talked about. We rolled out our That's a Plus campaign, with spots airing during the Grammy's, the Oscars. Google+ and Hangouts are getting great traction.

We had President Obama, Governor Romney; they both conducted very successful hangouts in the platform. Even NASCAR held a hangout ahead of the Daytona 500. But the most interesting was Seaview Survey did an underwater hangout live from the Great Barrier Reef. It's amazing to be able to see our great products like Hangout be so successful. I recommend that all of you try a Hangout soon.

As Larry mentioned, we also launched Google Play, which provides users one place to find, enjoy and share apps, music, movies and books instantly, anywhere across the web and on their Android devices. To support the launch, we ran a seven days to play promotion, offering discounts on apps and media. And our YouTube video has received over 3 million views to-date. Our partnership teams also kept its great work, supporting our products by being very close to our partners. For example, we launched Google Street View in Russia, which lets users walk around historical centers of Moscow and St. Petersburg.

We were also thrilled that this quarter our Google Cultural Institute helped bring Nelson Mandela's archives online. We expanded our successful art project to include new museums, from the Getty Museum in LA to the museums in Paris and Qatar. The project now provides access to more than 30,000 ultra-high-resolution images, paintings, sculptures and photographs of 151 museums and other institutions in 40 countries.

So, in closing, I think Q1 was an excellent quarter. It has led us off to a very good start for 2012. We look forward to continuing to serve our users, customers and partners for the rest of 2012 and beyond. I also want to say thank you to all the Googlers in our global business team, all of our partners in the product and engineering teams that allow us to make these wonderful things happen, and allow us to continue to drive the business.

With that, thank you. I'm going to hand you back to Patrick.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thank you. So, Jamie, our operator, is going to give us the instructions to get to the Q&A. So, Jamie, why don't we just jump right in.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Spencer Wang with Credit Suisse.

SPENCER WANG, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Two quick questions. First for Patrick. You mentioned the headcount growth was only about 600 this quarter. That's obviously slower than what you saw in 2011. Is this roughly the pace we should expect for 2012? Or were there perhaps some timing factors? And then secondly for Larry, you talked about Google+ unifying the Google product. So, when you think about things like Google Wallet and Offers, the mobile strategy maps, do you think of these as individual products or are they part of, perhaps, a broader local strategy? And if so, how do they fit together? Thanks.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thank you, Spencer. Why don't I just jump on the technical question, then let Larry get to the second one. I think that the headcount fluctuations, you'll remember last year when Larry said that we were at what was the edge of what was tolerable. This short-term variability is actually the very best proof point that we don't manage quarter to quarter and try to smooth things out. It just happens that in the first quarter, this time of year, it's a bit different. When you come back in Q3 when you have all of the graduate students that actually start with us, so there's a bit of fluctuation there. So I wouldn't read that much into the numbers. We're basically continuing to push on plan for our hiring for this year.

LARRY PAGE: The question about our products, I think we're working very hard -- and I've talked a lot about this -- to make our Google experience be more unified and feel like one great experience for people. And many of the products you mentioned, Google Wallet, Offers, Maps, they apply across many of the things we do. And so I think you'll see better integration of those products over through the rest of our products, as already exists with Wallet for example across many different parts, like Google Play, and so on. I think you'll see that increasingly happen over time just as we make these experiences better. They'll come up when you expect them to come up and when they make sense for users. So I think that's definitely a big area of focus for us.

SPENCER WANG: Great, thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Mark Mahaney with Citi.

MARK MAHANEY, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Two quick questions. First, in terms of appealing to major brands, Nikesh, I think you talked about how you're seeing major brands engage more with YouTube and other assets. Could you talk about how you're trying to go after those dollars? Are there new things that you're doing now that you weren't doing two years ago to accelerate that momentum? And then just real quickly on the mobile CPC issue. Can you just comment again on, over time, over what period of time you would expect mobile and desktop CPCs to merge? Or do you think that's a realistic expectation? What would cause that to happen or not? Thank you.

NIKESH ARORA: Let me take the first question quickly. And then I'll give you a little color on the second. Then Patrick can jump in. In terms of what we're doing differently, as I mentioned, YouTube has gone from being an interesting place for brands to be to being a must buy. So we're seeing tremendous demand for inventory which is brand related. And for the most part the online world in the past has been more performance related -- ie, people wanted to get some transactions, they wanted to get more people to their website. Now they're seeing the benefit of using the web for brand affiliation and for brand recognition. So we are beginning to have a different sales pitch with the large brands which is oriented towards them coming and getting their brand seen on the web. And YouTube is a phenomenal tool in that regard, which acts like an anchor property. And then we're able to package our demographic based inventory around the Google Display Network around YouTube, and actually get the brands to engage in large campaigns which can run in the millions of dollars. This was a capability we couldn't have a few years ago because the inventory didn't exist, and all the demographic tools didn't exist. So clearly this is a new space and a new pitch to our brand advertisers. And as I said, we are trying to light this up across our sales force around the world in 60 countries.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Let's go through the mobile CPC question. Mark, I think that this one is, think of it as so much upside for us because essentially mobile is exploding in query growth. And the formats themselves are just adapting already a lot, and from a relatively crude base to so much more in the future. So that you're absolutely right, that right now they don't monetize as well because we're in what search used to be in 2002, 2003, 2004. As these formats continue to get better and better, we would expect much better performance on them.

LARRY PAGE: This is Larry. I'll add something, Mark. I think the mobile CPCs, people always spend the most effort on whatever the major source of traffic or revenue is and those are growing really quickly. Currently, obviously, there's more on desktop. I think over time, it will actually reverse and I think that the ability to, on your mobile to do local kinds of transactions, to really easily communicate with people, and to do the kind of capabilities you have on your mobile device. And the fact that you spend most of your money locally, I think that over time that may actually reverse and the CPCs actually may get better.

But I think we're very bullish about that. We're making a lot of investments in that area in things like Offers and so on, and Wallets. And we're very excited about the potential there. And also click-to-call and other things that we do. So I think, for example, it's a lot easier to call someone from your mobile than it is from your computer right now. And so if that's how you're relying for transactions, actually mobile CPCs should be higher for that. I think you just haven't seen the focus on it and we're moving more and more focus onto that, both on our sales side, and our customers are moving focus onto that. I'm very bullish on that.

MARK MAHANEY: Thank you, Larry, Patrick, Nikesh.

OPERATOR: Ben Schachter with Macquarie.

BEN SCHACHTER, ANALYST, MACQUARIE RESEARCH: Larry, in your 2012 update letter you speak of all these notions of changing the world and ambitious goals on risky projects and having a healthy disregard for the impossible. Without getting into too much detail, at a high level what types of projects is Google working on that would really surprise us? And are you remaining committed to the 70/20/10 rule where these non-core areas might get only 10% of the investment? And then separately, just on the Google.com TAC piece, that continues to increase as a percentage of Google revenue. Is most of that coming from payments to mobile partners? And given the growth of mobile, should we expect that to continue to increase meaningfully? Thanks.

PATRICK PICHETTE: If you don't mind, Larry, why don't I answer the last one first because it's really easy and then you can jump on the rest. On TAC, if you look at our percentages as a percentage of revenue year-over-year, it's basically stable. It moves a little bit here and there, and you have partner mix and then FX mix between mobile and others, but it's not actually changing in any dramatic way. So what you have to see in there is just a regular mix of both traffic and partners that come in and out all the time, as well. So I wouldn't read too much into that. I'll let Larry answer the real sexy question.

LARRY PAGE: Thanks Ben, for the great question. I didn't mention specifically the 70/20/10 in my letter. I should have. That's a good addition. We definitely still see that most of our resources should be going to our core businesses, which are really search and ads and a few of those things I mentioned really fall into that core, I think. And then there's 20% on near things and maybe another 10% on the really speculative things. Through our whole history we've really struggled to even have 10% on the speculative things. Generally it's much lower than that. I think the real thing that's needed on those projects is some management. It does take out bandwidth. You saw our announcements of Google Glass last week, which I was very excited to see go out. You've seen the driverless cart kinds of things. It does take our executive time to deal with those things, and so on. And so I think that's the real investment we make rather than being huge amounts of dollars on those kinds of things, generally.

We've got a limited number of things we can do. As I've been saying, we've been trying to focus. We're trying to make sure we have the right speculative bets, as well as the right bets we're making on our core products and so on. I'm pretty excited about our ability to do that. I think it's hard coming from the outside because I mentioned in the letter I published today that Android took three years plus three years to really get to where it is today. That's six years. And you all haven't seen Android right for the six years. We've seen it for the six years and we really invested in it. It's not so much money at the earlier stages but attention. And that's an important, I think, discipline for the Company to have.

OPERATOR: Brian Pitz with UBS.

BRIAN PITZ, ANALYST, UBS: Similar to your detail on cost per click would you discuss the key drivers of higher paid click growth? Is it quality changes, product listing ads or something else? And more broadly maybe you could discuss how product listing ads do impact results as we're tracking a substantially higher number of these ads on your site. Thanks.

PATRICK PICHETTE: The short answer is yes. And that's what the core answer of my message to the market was today. You have a combination of international factors, you have a combination of new formats. Ad formats drive a lot in terms of paid clicks. If you think of even the site links extensions, like we have a new generation of site links for this quarter. This is a perfect example of a product where, by adding additional lines that are more targeted, so instead of having just trucks or -- and then you go down into the second layer, you have less CPC for that additional site links. But if it's a better ad, people click a ton more on them. So it is really all of those five factors that actually drive them. And that's why we're continuing to be pretty happy with the health of the net effect, which is real growth. Certainly internationally, you can see our mix between international and non-international. And that's driving it, as well. So you have all these factors at play and we're pretty happy with what we're doing there.

BRIAN PITZ: Great. Thanks.

OPERATOR: Doug Anmuth with JPMorgan.

DOUG ANMUTH, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Two things. First, just want to follow up on the question on mobile and TAC. If you could help us understand beyond CPCs how the economics of mobile are different. And perhaps a little bit more detail on how you're paying OEMs and carriers. And then, secondly, any updated thoughts on the cash balance and an update perhaps on the split of US and international cash. Thanks.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Let me start with the last one first. We don't give the breakdown of our US and cash. We do it irregularly. We haven't done so of late. We continue to have a very strong cash balance, both US and international. You'll notice if you go into the details of our cash balance and on our balance sheet we have just slightly under $2 billion of Sec lending programs. So when you really look at our net cash balance you have to take that Sec lending out because it's on both sides of the balance sheet. But for the rest of it, incredibly healthy cash balance, both domestic and international. And Nikesh, do you want to give a quick update on the mobile CPCs and economics?

NIKESH ARORA: Yes. Again, I'm not going to talk about specifically the TAC and mobile. But, as you know, we get people using our devices both organically as well as through our distribution partnerships with carriers and OEMs. And typically the OEMs and carriers participate in some of the economics around the Android marketplace for Google Play. And some of them participate in the economics around Google Search, just the way we would do syndication on the web platform, which we do with many partners around the world. We have similar deals on the mobile front. I think in the mix that it comes out, washes out and it adds up into our number which we show in our total number we invest on the mobile. But mobile is no different from the way the desktop business operates out there.

PATRICK PICHETTE: And we benefit from the terrific growth. Thanks for your question, Doug. Let's go to the next question, please, Jamie.

OPERATOR: Carlos Kirjner with Bernstein.

CARLO KIRJNER, ANALYST, BERNSTEIN RESEARCH: Two questions, if I may. If you think of the future of Internet search three or four years out, how important will the social signal be, and how important will personalization be? In other words, will the company with the best social signal be able to offer the best search? And if the answer to that question is no, why is Google investing so much in Google+? And the second question, if I may, you'll probably end the year with about $50 billion in cash and marketable securities, and that will give you quite a lot of strategic flexibility. Given that, what's the rationale to continue to increase that amount and not return cash to shareholders?

LARRY PAGE: I'll take the first part, Carlos. Thanks for the question. This is Larry. I think that it's a very good question. And I think one of the things I actually had in my remarks and I took out was to talk a little bit about Search. I just didn't have time to put it all in. And I actually covered the question you're asking. I think one of the most amazing things I think we can do today that we couldn't do even a few months ago is to really -- I have this friend Ben Smith who is a person at Google. He has a common name. Now when I do a search, actually it finds the right person and it puts him in the search box. So for the first time, the search box isn't really doing searching a string, just a sequence of letters. It's actually searching for that person that I know.

Now, it's obviously not all the searches you do but being able to search for people well is important. And having real feedback from users about what they like and don't like, and things they're sharing and so on is very useful for search. We have a lot of those signals already, but we can always use more signals, we can always use better relevance and we can always use more data to generate that. So I think it is very important. I think social data about identity and ability to easily share things with other people and comment on them and things like that is a basic utility for people in all of our products. I was talking about Google+ really working across all of Google for identity and sharing and notification and other things that it does really well. So that all applies to search and I think it's important for search. I think search is going to change a lot. We're going to make it a lot better over the next 5 or 10 years, as it's changed a lot in the past. And it will include a bunch of those signals and a bunch of other things, as well.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Carlos, why don't I take the next one, the issue of our cash balance. We have a healthy cash balance, I had mentioned a minute ago, and we still believe that it's an incredible strategic asset for us. You saw it last year when we decide to make the purchase of MMI. And we continue to monitor this cash balance. And for the time being we really believe that that strategic asset has a ton of value. So we will continue to monitor it and we have a process by which we actually review it on a regular basis with the Board, and those questions are always asked. So we have a good governance process around it. But for now, and the time being, we have nothing to announce on it. Thank you, Carlos for your question.

CARLO KIRJNER: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Heather Bellini with Goldman Sachs.

HEATHER BELLINI, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: I was wondering, Larry, if you could walk us through your view on Google's tablet strategy via Android and the relative importance of having success with these devices in terms of achieving your long-term goals.

LARRY PAGE: Thanks, Heather, that's a good question. I think that we're very excited about tablets. There's a number of Android tablets out there. Obviously we have strong competition there, as well. I think you've seen us really invest substantially also in things like Google Play which really give you great access to entertainment, media books, and videos and so on, as well as the apps. We think that's an important component of what we're doing. I think there's also, obviously there's been a lot of success on some lower-priced tablets that run Android, maybe not the full Google version of Android. We definitely believe that there's going to be a lot of success at the lower end of the market, as well, with lower-priced products that will be very significant. And it's definitely an area we think is important and we're quite focused on.

OPERATOR: Justin Post with Bank of America-Merrill Lynch.

JUSTIN POST, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: I have one for Larry and one for Patrick. Larry, Android is obviously a key focus you talk about a lot in your letters. Can you help us understand the strategic value for Google since you're not licensing it? Do you see more revenue per device if it runs on Android or lower TAC? Or what else can you tell us about what the real advantage to Google's advertising business is? And then, Patrick, obviously hiring and CapEx in Q1 this year a lot lower than Q1 last year. Can you tell us if you factor in your revenue growth when you make that spending decision, your outlook? Does that give us any clues on your outlook for revenue growth over the next couple years? Thank you.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Why don't I jump -- because, mine, again, is not a very strategic one, it's more how we proceed. It's lumpy because there's just timing decisions. There's probably a few areas where we would have liked to actually make investments in Q1, and for a bunch of logistics reasons or otherwise we couldn't. And you'll notice that's why there's like $350 million difference between Q4 and Q1. And you should just expect it to be lumpy. That's just the nature of -- data centers are big and clunky and when you buy some piece of real estate it's big and clunky. So there is quite a bit of variability into it. But, again, I wouldn't take any one data point to start making a trend out of. So it's tough, but I think that you can see we're committed to capital. If you look at the last couple of years, we've really made significant investments and we'll continue to do them because it's a real strategic asset to us, as well. I'll let Larry answer the first question.

LARRY PAGE: Justin, on your questions about Android, I think they're pretty short-term focused. And I think it's good to think about the longer-term issues. We don't get very many new operating systems, only a few in my lifetime, and I think they're pretty important. And I think Android's really about increasing the pace of innovation, usage of mobile devices, and our ability to get great user experiences out there to our users, which I think we're doing a great job of. I mentioned over 850,000 devices per day are going out. And it's important to remember we're very early stages of that. I'm amazed, the computer that I'm carrying in my pocket is as good as the one I had a few years ago on my desktop. I think we're only at the very early stages of what's possible with those devices. And I'm excited about a whole bunch of things we're doing in that area.

We already mentioned things, like I said I'm very bullish that CPCs will improve on mobile over desktop due to all those capabilities. And so I think the benefits we get from Android are a lot. Obviously, we have great integration with our products and search and Google+ and photo uploading. And there's 100 things that we do really well on Android that benefit us across the board, across our users across the board, and our products across the board. And I think that's going to continue to be the case. I think that does lead to better economics for us, too, because we're providing amazing experiences for people that are well integrated and work well and they demand. So I'm very positive on all those things.

JUSTIN POST: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Lloyd Walmsley with Deutsche Bank.

LLOYD WALMSLEY, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Larry, just wondering, as you look out on a very long-term five-year view, do you see tablets taking perhaps a majority of home Internet usage? And if so, how strategically imperative is it for Android to have a big success in the tablet space, given partner TAC could impose a high cost to the extent Android doesn't have a hit?

LARRY PAGE: I think I already answered this question previously about tablets. Like I said, we think it's an important area. I think your computing experience, obviously if you have an Android phone or use Google online, you care about all those things in terms of your experience. And so I think you're thinking about your user experience, you're thinking about across all the devices used. I think people are going to get a lot more devices. We see a convergence between all the services on those devices. Right now I feel like each device you get is kind of a hassle to deal with. You're thinking about each individual device and all the issues with it. I think that's not really right. I think you're going to have a pretty unified experience and a great experience from the user point of view and you won't have to manage all these devices.

So I think you want to think about all these screens around you working seamlessly and working well for you. And I think, obviously, tablets are important. We have Google TV. Obviously big screens are important. Computers are important. Phones are important. All those devices are important. And I expect that they'll work well together. So I think that's how we would think about it. I don't think any single device there is going to drive all these or all the convergence that needs to happen.

LLOYD WALMSLEY: Great. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Ross Sandler with RBC Capital Markets.

ROSS SANDLER, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: I have a question for Nikesh. Can you give us an update on the growth rates you're seeing today in your core search business by small, medium and large advertiser tranches? I think you mentioned in the prepared remarks that Japan had strong growth primarily due to smaller advertiser tranche. How does that growth look in the various advertiser size buckets across your geos? And then is the speed of small advertiser adoption increasing right now versus prior period, given all the new local products that you have?

NIKESH ARORA: Yes, I think the one way to think about it is that fundamentally we have one auction, and that auction every advertiser participates, whether it's the small advertiser or large advertiser. The way we think about it is that we try and go ahead and get more and more advertisers to see the benefit of online advertising and the solutions that we offer. So as more and more advertisers come into the auction, it drives the price up of the auction for both large and small advertisers. The way to think about it is that there's a price. You talked about CPCs and paid clicks. But it's really the third variable that goes into it, how many advertisers can we bring into the auction and how many various things can we get them interested in, whether it's Mobile, whether it's YouTube, whether it's display, whether it's search

There has been a lot of effort we have put in from our end, both to get more small businesses online. We've been running [GX bureau] campaigns around the world where we get small businesses online. We've also been cleaning up our signup flows for our AdWords products which is a self-serve product where very small businesses can sign up. We have been working on getting people to have more mobile sites and getting people launched into mobile campaigns. So effectively it's a lot of effort towards getting more and more advertisers into the ecosystem. And as that happens around the world, you will see seasonal patterns or some spikes when we worked harder on small businesses in one quarter in certain parts of the world. But eventually it all benefits the auction and we see the trend over time ends up working the same way for large and small advertisers.

ROSS SANDLER: Thanks, Nikesh.

OPERATOR: Anthony DiClemente with Barclays.

ANTHONY DICLEMENTE, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: I just have one question for Nikesh or whomever wants to answer it. It seems like, even though as you're shifting to mobile, you have this presumably double-digit pricing stepdown for CPCs. But in the display world, certainly that pricing difference could be even more dramatic, in some cases one-half or two-thirds, prices getting cut on that shift to mobile. You guys at Google have the unique ability to compare and contrast the difference in price between search and display and how the two are monetizing relative to desktop. And so any color on that comparison would be appreciated because I think there are folks out there that have a view that actually search, core search monetizes better on that shift to mobile than display does. And I would love to just understand that better. Thanks.

NIKESH ARORA: Let me try and explain to it from the advertiser perspective. What we're striving towards is advertisers are interested in ROI. Advertisers actually are not interested in whether they're on the mobile product, the display product, the search product, on the web or the search product for mobile. What we are fast converging towards is we're basically sitting down and understanding ROI targets of our advertisers. And then we have immense amounts of inventory at our behest whether it's mobile inventory, or display or search or desktop inventory. Or inventory through our network. What we are trying to work towards is being able to dynamically allocate across these various products what allows them to get the maximum ROI. In that case they don't really care about whether they got that transaction to happen off one platform, one format or the other. That's what we want to aspire to.

That works really well in performance advertising because there is a specific objective the advertiser has. On display on brand, it works slightly differently, obviously, because you're talking about CPMs. But generally that's the way to think about it. In the long-term we think mobile will monetize better. And we really don't see the difference happening on display and search, as you alluded to. Larry, you want to add something?

LARRY PAGE: I'm just going to close the call here. I really thank everyone for spending so much time with us today. And thank you all for spending time with us today and for being so interested in Google. And now I'll turn it over to the Operator.

OPERATOR: Thank you. That does conclude today's conference. We do appreciate your participation.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
goog : Google Inc.
   IN
i8395464 : Internet Search Engines | iint : Internet/Online Services
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | c32 : Advertising | c15 : Performance | c31 : Marketing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020120426e84c00439
  


 HD
 Q4  2011 Google Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
11,493 words
   PD
19 January 2012
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©012 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day, everyone, and welcome to the Google Inc. fourth quarter 2011 earnings conference call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time, I would like to turn the conference over to Ms. Willa Lo, Investor Relations Manager. Please go ahead, ma'am.

   TD
WILLA LO, IR MANAGER, GOOGLE INC: Good afternoon, everyone, and welcome to today's fourth quarter 2011 earnings conference call. With us are Larry Page, Chief Executive Officer, Patrick Pichette, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Susan Wojcicki, Senior Vice President, Advertising, Nikesh Arora, Senior Vice President and Chief Business Officer. Also, as you know, we now distribute our earnings release through our Investor Relations website located at investor.google.com, so please refer to our IR website for our earnings releases, as well as the supplementary slides that accompany this call. This call is also being webcast from investor.google.com. A replay of the call will be available on our website in a few hours.

Let me quickly cover the Safe Harbor. Some of the statements that we make today may be considered forward-looking, including statements regarding Google's future investments, our long-term growth and innovation, the expected performance of our business and our expected level of capital expenditures. These statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially. Please note that these forward-looking statements reflect our opinions only as of the date of this presentation and we undertake no obligation to revise or publicly release the results of any revision to these forward-looking statements in light of new information or future events. Please refer to our SEC filings for a more detailed description of the risk factors that may affect our results. Please note that certain financial measures that we use on this call, such as operating income and operating margin are expressed on a non-GAAP basis and have been adjusted to exclude charges related to stock-based compensation. We have also adjusted our net cash provided by operating activities to remove capital expenditures, which we refer as free cash flow. Our GAAP results and reconciliation of non-GAAP to GAAP measures can be found in our earnings press release. With that, I will turn the call over to Larry.

LARRY PAGE, CEO, GOOGLE INC: Good afternoon, everyone, and happy new year. Welcome to our first earnings call of 2012. Great to have all of you here. I'm very happy with our results. Google had a very strong quarter with revenues up 25% year on year, 9% quarter on quarter, and we blew past the $10 billion mark for the first time. Pretty exciting.

Looking back on 2011, I am most excited by the fact that we significantly improved our velocity and execution. My priority when I became CEO in April. With Google Plus, we shipped on average a new feature every day since we launched in June. That's more than 200 updates in total. Those things include a bunch of new Hangout features. In fact, David Beckham just did a great Hangout with his fans here this morning. We launched Circles and Gmail and Plus pages for businesses and many, many other things.

I'm also pleased to announce that there are over 90 million Google Plus users, well over double what I announced just a quarter ago on our earnings call. Engagements on Plus is also growing tremendously. I have some amazing data to share there for the first time. Plus users are very engaged with our products. Over 60% of them engage daily and over 80% weekly. As I said last quarter, Google Plus is much more than the individual features themselves. It's also about building a meaningful relationship with users so that we can dramatically improve the services we offer. Understanding who people are, what they care about and the other people that matter to them is crucial if we are to give users what they need when they need it.

Take last week's search announcement, which I'm really excited about. We've now included personal results in search, so you can easily find information like photos and Plus posts that are super relevant to you, as well as the people you care about or are interested in. You can even restrict all personal results or easily view Google in the world mode, just as you would have before. I really like it, and I encourage all of you to try it out, too.

Need to improved execution and velocity is focus. There are so many opportunities for Google today, but to make a real impact in the world, we need to make hard choices about where to focus our efforts. Since we last spoke, we've announced that we are closing 12 more products, including Buzz, Knol and Friend Connect, integrating a whole bunch of others into features of existing products. This means we can double down on the really big bets we have made, like Android, Chrome, Gmail, Display and YouTube, and I'm pleased to say those big bets are really paying off. We're seeing extraordinary velocity, the kind of velocity we could only dream about. Android is, quite simply, mind boggling. 700,000 phones are lit up every day, and I'm pleased to announce 250 million Android devices in total, up 50 million since our last announcement just in November. In just two days over the holiday weekend, 3.7 million Androids were activated. And today, we're announcing over 11 billion downloads from Android markets. Wow. Ice Cream Sandwich, which is a new Android release in October, is by far our best build yet. And our exciting new phones, I simply love my Galaxy Nexus, super fast, great for photos, has an amazing 720p screen. Chrome is on fire, too, it's a wonderful example of the kind of beautifully simple, intuitive experience that really improves users' lives.

People thought we were crazy. Who wants another browser? Turns out, a lot of people wanted to get at the web quickly and securely, and we've got an amazing, fast-growing fan base all around the world. From the start, Gmail had security, accessibility, get all your emails from anywhere on any device, and insane storage. That made it a winner with consumers, businesses and education. From an internal data project eight years ago, I'm proud to tell you today that Google Gmail now has more than 350 million active users, and it's growing rapidly. As I've always said, our emerging high use products can generate huge new businesses for Google in the long run, just like search. And we have a ton of experience monetizing household products over time. Take display. We brought the science of search to the art of the display, creating a business that our latest figures show has now reached an annualized run rate of over $5 billion.

I have some exciting new numbers also for the double-click Ad Exchange. Spending is up over 130% year on year, and the number of buyers and sellers have both more than doubled over the same period. I am very pleased with the advertising on YouTube. TrueView gives users much more choice over what they watch, and advertisers only pay when someone watches their ads. It's not just in advertising that we're doing well. Enterprise is doing great, with over 5,000 new customers signing up every day. In fact, last week, we signed our biggest ever deal, about 110,000 users at BBVA, one of the world's leading banks. All of our experience as the well-run technology businesses with tremendous consumer usage make a lot of money over the long-term.

Now, all of this is made possible by the exceptional people that work here. I've always believed that you attract the best talents by working on things that matter in the world and creating a great workplace environment. People want to feel part of the family, even when they are at work. So, I'm super pleased that Google topped Fortune 2012's Best Company to Work For list, which was published today. We've taken the number one slot three times now, more than any other company. I want to thank everyone at Google for all of their hard work that has made this possible.

Let me finish up by saying that 2012 promises to be a fantastic year. We're still in the very, very early stages of what technology can do. By building a meaningful relationship with users, we can start to offer them just what they need, exactly when they want it. Everyone here at Google is super excited about our work today and what the future holds. It's great to be here. Thank you for taking the time to join us today, and I'll now hand over to Patrick.

PATRICK PICHETTE, SVP, CFO, GOOGLE INC: Thank you very much, Larry, and good afternoon, everyone, and thank you for joining us again. Like Larry, I'm also very happy with our results. Google had a strong, a really strong quarter, in fact, with revenues up 25% year-over-year, crowning a year of disciplined investment, strong growth, and actually great operational and financial performance. Let me go through these financial results. Then I'll turn it over to Nikesh and Susan for more commentary on our operating performance. So, let's jump right in.

Our gross revenue grew 25% year-over-year to $10.6 billion, 9% quarter over quarter growth. By the way, it's worth noting that although currency rates had an immaterial impact year-over-year, it in fact had a negative impact on revenue quarter over quarter. In fact, if we applied last quarter's exchange rates to our Q4 revenue, these would have been roughly $240 million higher. So, FX is a key component here. Google website revenue was up. In fact, just shy of 30% year-over-year to $7.3 billion, and 8% quarter over quarter, with strength across most major geographies and verticals.

Our Google network revenue was up 15% year-over-year to $2.9 billion and 11% quarter over quarter. It's important to note here that the network revenue was, again, negatively impacted by the search quality improvements we made early last year. And also that the momentum in our display business continues, something that Susan will talk about in a few minutes. Our other revenue was up 50% year-over-year to $410 million and 6% quarter over quarter. Our global aggregate paid click growth was very strong, up 34% year-over-year, and 17% quarter over quarter. Our aggregate cost per click growth was down 8% year-over-year and quarter over quarter. Remember, too, that this is an aggregate number, which includes both Google.com and our AdSense properties. On this it is important to look at CPC's and clicks together, there are numbers of factors that affect each, again, something that Susan will address in the next few minutes.

If we turn to our geographic performance, the US, UK, and rest of worlds all were growing at strong pace, reflecting in our results. In our earnings slides, which you can find in our investor website -- relations website, you'll see that we've broken down our revenue by US, UK and rest of world to show the impact of FX and the benefits from our hedging programs. So, please refer to those slides for the exact calculations. Revenue from the US was up 22% year-over-year to $5 billion. Our non-US revenue accounted for 53% of our total revenue, or $5.6 billion, up 28% year-over-year, which includes a modest $25 million benefit from our hedgings program. The UK was up 21% year-over-year to $1.1 billion.

Let me now turn to expenses. Traffic and acquisition costs were $2.5 billion, or 24.1% of total advertising revenue. Other costs of revenue was $1.2 billion, excluding stock-based compensation of $77 million. And finally, operating expenses, which excludes stock-based compensation, totaled $2.9 billion. Our stock-based compensation totaled $459 million, and the increase year-over-year in OpEx was primarily due to payroll, increased advertising and promotional spend and legal and professional services. As a result of all this, our non-GAAP operating profit was $4 billion in Q4, resulting in a non-GAAP operating margin of 38.2%. A strong margin performance that gives us the confidence to continue to fully fund our strategic growth areas in search, display, mobile and apps.

If we turn to head count, it was up approximately 1,100 for the quarter, and we ended the year roughly at 32,500 full-time employees. Our effective tax rate was 22% in Q4, and this reflects the mix of earnings between our domestic and international subsidiaries. But also, an impairment charge for Clearwire, which is not deductible for tax purposes.

Let me now turn to cash management. In other income and expenses, our line was minus 18, which is a large negative variance. In fact, over $300 million quarter over quarter. This reflects a couple of things. First is the impact of our significant FAS 133 expense from hedging program, which accelerated the expense of our portfolio this quarter, now that this portfolio is much deeper in the money. In addition, as I mentioned, we took an impairment charge for Clearwire. So, for more details on our OI&E, which changed quite a bit this quarter, again, please refer to the slides that accompany this call on our IR website.

Our operating cash flow was very strong at $3.9 billion, just shy of $4 billion. Our CapEx for the quarter was $951 million versus last quarter at $680 million, and remember that the majority of our CapEx spend was related to facilities and production equipment. And as a reminder, I wish to continue to make -- will continue to make significant CapEx investments, and these have shown to be lumpy from quarter to quarter, depending on when we're able to make these investments. In consequence, we're very pleased with our free cash flow, which was $3 billion. So in summary, with such a strong performance, we continue to be optimistic about investing in our growth agenda. Let me now hand it off to Nikesh, who will cover more of the details of our sales performance for the quarter. Nikesh?

NIKESH ARORA, SVP, CHIEF BUSINESS OFFICER, GOOGLE INC: Thank you, Patrick. I will now provide an update on our business activities. We've had an excellent quarter, good growth over the holiday season, robust year end growth on Black Friday and Cyber Monday has led to strong performance across our product portfolio and $10.6 billion in revenue this quarter.

Let me talk first about how our sales team has driven the introduction of innovative ad products that deliver impressive results for our advertising customers and outline performance by region, and finally, a few highlights from our marketing and partnership teams. First on search, our core desktop search maintained robust growth as we continue to help our customers grow their businesses. The other robust core growth supporting online sales were increasingly helping our advertisers to use search for branding, as well as something interesting, which is driving in-store sales for them. For instance, by using the power of data insight, we collaborated with Carrefour in France, analyzed over two years worth of data, demonstrate how EUR1 invested online ads helps deliver almost EUR8 of in-store sales. We expect to promote these kinds of programs further in the coming quarters. Additionally, we saw similar success in a study with SFR Mobile, France's second largest mobile carrier, where we demonstrated 20% marketing ROI for off line sales resulting from online advertising. So, our search business continues to be strong.

Let's move on to display. As Larry mentioned, we are continuing to see great revenue growth. Our investments have really paid off the last few years. Display has now reached an annualized run rate of over $5 billion as we engage with multiple advertisers and get tremendous support from our agency partners. What is particularly satisfying is how we are able to drive this growth as a consequence of our continued investment in innovation, the products like Ad Exchange and new ad formats like TrueView. I'm sure Susan will talk a lot more about these. All these are resulting in more efficiency and revenue for both us and our publisher partners.

On the sales side, we have continued to align our teams now to combine display and search sales to help meet the needs of our advertising partners. We continue to activate the display ecosystem of agencies, advertisers and other publishers. Advertisers like Ford, GM, Electronic Arts, L'Oreal and other agencies continue to see the efficiency of online branding and move more and more of their marketing spend towards our products. The Google display network and YouTube. For example, at L'Oreal, we demonstrated that online advertising is far more efficient than television as our new formats on YouTube which include TrueView instream, inslate and insearch have provided significant reach for their branding campaigns, with millions of impressions, great click-through and efficient CBMs. Let's move to mobile.

We had another record quarter for mobile advertising as mobile search continues to surge across all platforms. A number of our clients are using mobile within their campaigns continues to grow rapidly. For example, Melia Hotels of Spain with 350 hotels in 35 countries, they use mobile search campaigns to support their mobile eCommerce activities. As a result Melia has experienced a 60% increase in visitors from mobile devices, and their mobile-driven bookings have multiplied by 12 in 2011. We've also worked hard to develop the mobile ecosystem. This quarter, we kicked off the Go Mobile campaign in the city of Mobile, Alabama, where we helped hundreds of customers build their mobile sites for free, starting a program that will inspire, educate and empower businesses to continue to Go Mobile.

Let's move to enterprise. As Larry mentioned, we are seeing great traction in our enterprise business, both in large partners who tend to be early adopters and future looking and in many small businesses who see Google Apps as a comprehensive and quick solution. We now have more than 5,000 customers signing up to Google Apps every day. As Larry mentioned, BBVA was the first major bank to go Google with Apps. Costco, one of the world's largest retailers, has also gone Google. In addition, in Q4, we signed government deals with the states of Maryland, Utah and five top universities, including Berkeley, Howard and Michigan.

Let's move quickly to country performance. From a regional perspective, we continue to see strong performance in the Americas. However, generally, country growth rates are flat or softened slightly, partly due to comparisons over the very strong Q4 in 2010. North America saw slight decreases from preceding quarters. Year to year growth rates, however, the US (inaudible) remained robust, boosted by a strong holiday season. In particular, Cyber Monday led the way as the biggest day of the quarter. Western Europe was broadly stable as the UK, France and Italy was steady while Spain accelerated slightly for the third quarter in a row. However, revenue growth in Germany slowed this quarter. Our key emerging countries continued to see rapid growth across all of our product areas.

Let me switch gears to marketing and partnerships. Our marketing and partnerships programs continue to provide strong foundations for the growth of our business. You may have seen many of our initiatives on Google Plus this quarter, in addition to the Hangout with David Beckham Larry mentioned. Our sales teams have helped our customers create over 1 million Google Plus pages, as Larry pointed out, including global brands such as Toyota, Zappos and the New York Times. Additionally, we continued the momentum of our Get Your Business Online program. In 2011, this program has helped bring hundreds of thousands of business online across the world. And we got 100,000 businesses to come online in 20 countries in Q4 alone. Last quarter, we expanded internationally to India, Sweden and Malaysia, as well as domestically at additional states like Michigan and New York. Our partnership team continues to drive great results with our partners, creating 35 of our direct search partners deals and our long standing search distribution deal with Mozilla was in here as well. These and other efforts helped our syndicated search revenues accelerate in Q4, as we saw the full impact of large deals and fast growth of key partners.

In closing, Q4 was a great quarter for us, finishing a strong 2011. We are excited to continue serving our customers, partners and users in 2012. Before I hand it over to Susan, I want to give a shout-out to our business teams around the world and our partners in product engineering for these great results. I will now turn it over to Susan, who will discuss product performance this quarter. Thank you.

SUSAN WOJCICKI, SVP ADVERTISING, GOOGLE INC: Thanks, Nikesh. Larry mentioned last week's launch of Search Plus Your World, and I would like to start by talking about that a bit more. Google search has always been about finding the best results among billions of web pages. And until now, those results have been limited to the public world of the Internet. What we added last week was the ability to search your own world, including Google Plus posts, photos, and profiles relevant to you, all from the same search box. Let me give you a few examples of how this transformed my searches.

Last week, I searched on CES, the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas, to find out more details about the show. In addition to the public results, my search magically included pictures my friends and colleagues had taken while at the show, as well as products they thought were interesting to share. In addition to seeing all the standard news for CES, I was able to get a much more personalized view of the show. This weekend, I also searched on Yosemite, since I was thinking about our summer plans. In my results, I was able to see pictures my friends had taken while in Yosemite and posts about interesting things to do there. There was even an article from my mom that she had shared with my family circle, warning us not to get too close to the waterfalls.

Turning now to ads, we continue to improve ads quality, and we launched about 20 improvements this quarter. Patrick mentioned that paid click growth was very strong this quarter and that CPCs declined. It's important to look at clicks and CPC metrics together, since more clicks can often lead to decreases in average CPC and vice versa. When we make ads quality or format changes, CPC and paid clicks may be impacted differently. For example, when we introduced site links, we saw an increase in clicks, but the additional clicks were on lower CPC ads, which reduced the average CPC. Many of the ads quality changes in Q3 increased paid clicks at lower CPCs, and they were revenue-positive with good user and good advertiser metrics. These ads quality changes from Q3 had a cumulative effect on Q4 metrics. Another important and key driver of the change in CPC growth was foreign exchange. And lastly, there are mix effects with mobile and emerging markets.

Moving on to new ad formats, these new formats now appear on about 30% of queries that show ads. Product listing ads, which include prices and pictures of products, saw a lot of success over the holiday season. Traffic to consumer sites from product listing ads was up over 600% year on year. This quarter, we expanded product listing ads so they can show up to five products, which was great for holiday shopping. We are also working to make it more efficient for advertisers who use AdWords. Many businesses have a large and dynamic catalog of products and it can be time consuming for them to select the key words and the CPCs for each product. So this quarter, we beta launched dynamic search ads, which generates the ads automatically, based on what's on a customer website. This enables businesses to advertise a lot more of their products, and our system can also monitor the advertisers available inventory and show ads only for what is in stock.

For small, local businesses, we ramped up AdWords Express. This product lets businesses get up and running with a campaign in just a few minutes. Customer sign-ups have more than tripled in the past six months. We now offer AdWords Express in the US, UK, Germany and France, and we are trialing it in several other countries. In display, which now has reached a 5 billion annualized run rate, as Larry mentioned, we're creating a comprehensive solution to buy and sell display ads across many types of digital media, such as desktop, video and mobile. One key driver of growth has been our success in audience buying. This technology enables marketers to deliver ads to specific audiences across the web, such as end market hybrid car buyers or adventure travelers. Many audience buyers purchase via the Ad Exchange, which now has customers in 26 countries and is growing very rapidly.

We also expanded to video and mobile inventory on the Ad Exchange and on the Google display network, we're also growing audience buying. From Q3 to Q4, the number of active advertisers using interest category marketing increased over 60%, and that was from an already large base. By understanding users' interests, we've been able to serve much more relevant and useful ads to our users. Our success in display has also been driven by brand advertisers with video formats being an important factor. Our TrueView instream ads give viewers the option to skip the ads. This means that users who see the ads are more likely to be interested in those products, and advertisers are incented to create compelling ads. View rates range between 15% and 45%, and the people who choose to watch those ads are highly engaged. Over 60% of our instream ads are now skippable. It's an increase of over four times since the beginning of the year. We now serve TrueView video ads across the Google display network and on YouTube mobile.

I would also like to give a quick update on Offers, which has been bringing online users to offline stores and services. Offers are now live in over 30 cities, and we're starting to feature national offers from partners like REI, JetBlue and Toys R Us. We expanded our collection of deals to include offers from partners so that users get a wider variety and partners get access to a broader user base. And lastly, among the many launches that we did in the quarter, I would like to highlight one project we did called Memories for the Future. This site compares before and after street view photographs of the areas affected by last year's tsunami in Japan. We drove thousands of miles so that future generations can see what happened. Thanks, all, for your time. Now, back to Patrick.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thank you, Susan. So, what we'll do is, we'll turn it over to Jamie to set up the Q&A session.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: Thank you, sir. (Operator Instructions) We'll take our first question today from Brian Pitz with UBS.

BRIAN PITZ, ANALYST, UBS: Great, thanks. Maybe you could just give us a sense for mobile usage. Did you see a major shift in mobile usage among the consumer during the holiday? And then I've got a quick follow-up.

LARRY PAGE: Yes, thanks, Brian. This is Larry. Let me give that question to Nikesh.

NIKESH ARORA: Yes, thank you, Larry. Thank you, Brian. Look, we're seeing mobile usage grow by leaps and bounds. It's happening by a proliferation of Android devices around the world, it's happening by a proliferation of tablets around the world, it's happening generally by people getting more and more active on their mobile devices as they discover the utility and the various apps that allow them to be able to go find things, whether they are local searches, they're product searches, whether searches for generally things on Google. So, yes, we are seeing tremendous mobile usage, and we also saw a significant uptick during the holiday season, where people were looking for products and searching for eCommerce-related activities during the holiday season.

BRIAN PITZ: So, just as a follow-up to that, so do you think that the reason for the significant decline in the CPC is the down 8% is a function of the clicks going through mobile more so, or is it more, some of the other factors that you explained to us? Because I'm just trying to get a sense for the down 8% CPC number, was I guess significantly different than what we were expecting, and I understand the trade-off with the clicks. But is mobile largely responsible for that?

NIKESH ARORA: I'm going to pass that question on to my friend Susan here, who is going to talk about the CPC.

SUSAN WOJCICKI: Hi, Brian. So there are definitely multiple factors whenever we look at these metrics, because these metrics are aggregate. But I would say the two biggest factors this quarter were FX, as well as the changes that we had made to ad quality or format changes, which increased the paid clicks, and again, were revenue-positive, advertiser-positive, user-positive. But those clicks, as I explained, may be on -- may be lower CPC, like in the example that I gave in my script with site links. So, those were the two factors. But again, it's always important to remember, there are many factors that contributed to these aggregate numbers.

BRIAN PITZ: Great. Just a quick housekeeping. Patrick, can you just clarify what's in that $5 billion display run rate? Is that comparable to the $2.5 billion you provided before? Thanks.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Yes, it is exactly the same definition, so you take out all the text ads and then you look at both mobile and desktop. So, go back to the same definition.

BRIAN PITZ: Great. Thank you.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Let's go to the next question, please.

OPERATOR: And we'll go next to Spencer Wang with Credit Suisse.

SPENCER WANG, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Thanks. Good afternoon. Two quick questions. I guess first, for Nikesh, it looks like international, excluding the UK, revenue probably slowed the most kind of sequentially. Was wondering if the macro economy played at all a role, and if so, any sense of magnitude there? And then secondly for Susan, with respect to the $5 billion display run rate number, there's obviously a lot of stuff that goes in there between YouTube and mobile and the ad network. I was wondering if you could just give us some maybe color on what the blended tack rate that would be for that $5 billion. Thanks.

PATRICK PICHETTE: So, I'll take both questions, if you don't mind. First, we will not -- we don't provide the tack rate on the blended. And you're right. If you think of the big properties that are in there, right, so you will have the GDN, we'll have YouTube, we'll have all of the additional elements of our display business, which includes the TerraSense and all of the other optimizers, but also the AdMob on mobile. So, that's kind of the key elements of it, but we do not kind of comment on the details of the blended tack on them.

On the economy, look, we had actually quite a solid Q4 performance and we're really pleased of our revenue growth. Even despite the FX issues, so you have to separate the FX issues from the economics fundamentals of our business, and performance in Europe was actually quite healthy, despite the environment that we got there. And that's driven by the secular shift of offline to online continues, and the secular shift of more mobile continues. So from that perspective, right, obviously, we don't control the economy. We don't control exchange rates, but we're actually quite pleased with the performance that we've had internationally in addition to the UK and the US. Thanks for your question Let's go to the next question, please.

OPERATOR: And we'll take our next question from Mark Mahaney with Citi.

MARK MAHANEY, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Thanks. I just wanted to ask about YouTube. I know that's within that display bucket, could you quantify it at all? Is the growth you're seeing out of YouTube similar to what you're seeing in the overall display bucket? And specifically, are you seeing signs that TV ad budgets specifically are migrating online into assets like YouTube? When you ask advertisers who are spending more money on YouTube where those dollars are coming from, where are they coming from? Thanks.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Let's do a one-two punch quickly. YouTube is doing absolutely terrific. And on the advertising side, Nikesh would probably be the better answer to give the details. Or Larry, whichever of the two.

LARRY PAGE: I assume the advertising side, I think you know, we're tremendously excited about our growth on YouTube, and the amount of success we're having in advertising there is very significant. But it's not significant compared to the overall kind of video advertising space, it's a tiny percentage of that. We have a huge amount to grow. I don't think the advertisers are thinking about it as being a significant percentage of their other spend on video. So, we don't really see that. Next question?

OPERATOR: And we'll go next to Ben Schachter with Macquarie.

BEN SCHACHTER, ANALYST, MACQUARIE RESEARCH: On the Android, the numbers are obviously very, very strong, but could you talk about the monetization potential that's beyond search? What has to happen with Android for you to actually make money on this, and how are you going to do it? And then secondly, the revenue growth did decelerate more than I think most people expected, and you had such strong tail winds with mobile and display. Do you think that some of the deceleration came from people going to information directly through apps or going directly through vertical search, like going to Amazon directly for commerce or Expedia directly for travel? Thanks.

LARRY PAGE: Yes, maybe -- Ben, maybe I'll take the first one there on Android. I think we are in the very -- as I mentioned in my remarks, we're in the early stages of monetization for a number of our new products, and Android is one of those. I think we do make money from search on ads. We do make -- we mentioned that we're a very strong advertising business on mobile, which we obviously -- a lot of those people are on Android as well. And I think that you'll also see -- we announced 11 billion downloads on the Android market. A lot of those are free, but we also are having a lot of people buy stuff there, too. So, we see a lot of potential for us to make money on Android. I think you'll see us increase that a lot over time. It's hard to give you details about that right now, but I'm very, very optimistic.

PATRICK PICHETTE: On the second part of the question, let me jump in. If you look at our growth, first of all, you're right that FX played a part. You also have to remember that last year at this time, right, we had such a strong comp, we had such an amazing Q4 of 2010 that the year-over-year comparison in a way represents also this really high kind of level on which to start from. And so from that perspective, and if you also look at our mix between our own Google websites versus all of our network, our core properties continue to be actually very strong. So for all these reasons, I wouldn't be worried of the way that you've described it, in fact. We've got continued very strong growth. Thanks for the question, Jaime -- Ben. Let's go to the next question, please.

OPERATOR: And we'll go next to Heather Bellini with Goldman Sachs.

HEATHER BELLINI, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Hi. Thank you for taking the question. I just had another follow-up on CPC and kind of, as you look out, given to the first half of the year and given the metrics that Susan rank ordered or impacting them in Q4, how do we think about how those metrics that you rank ordered might impact them in the first half of the year or just even looking out over the next quarter? What are the things we should be paying attention to?

PATRICK PICHETTE: Yes, at the highest level, maybe Susan can jump in if she wants to add additional. If you think of the core elements of it, she mentioned quality and all of the [patent] changes and everything that we talked about, right, it's full year is going to be represented only by next spring. And then FX, right, we don't control ourselves.

HEATHER BELLINI: Right.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Obviously it has a significant impact. The rest of it is actually the mix between how the innovation that we drive through our products, which is if you have a great product that drives a ton of clicks and it happens to have lower costs, or CPC, then that's still to the benefit of everybody. So, then that's really about our innovation agenda, but we don't give forward guidance on that.

HEATHER BELLINI: Right. But it just looks like those trends that you mentioned that impacted Q4 are in existence as we look out, at least initially, into 2012.

PATRICK PICHETTE: I think you have to make the call on the FX yourself. And then on the --

HEATHER BELLINI: Aside from FX, obviously right.

PATRICK PICHETTE: And then the quality, I think we're going to flow through the year sometime in the spring.

SUSAN WOJCICKI: The one thing that I would just add is the way we think about the business is, we're focused on how do we provide better ads for our users and for our advertisers, and we look at all of those metrics combined. And what we saw in Q3 was we made a bunch of changes. They were small. There was no one individually that actually affected things, but it just so happened that the changes that we made drew more attention and caused an increase in paid clicks. And so, as I mentioned, there are many factors, but really what we use is the guiding metrics are to understand that something is revenue, advertiser and user positive.

HEATHER BELLINI: Thank you.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thanks for your question. Let's go to the next question, please.

OPERATOR: We'll go next to Carlos Kirjner with Sanford C. Bernstein.

CARLOS KIRJNER , ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & CO.: Hi, thanks for taking my question. How can you reconcile the 15% year on year growth in Google patent revenue with 130% growth in the double click exchange and the 5 billion run rate for display? It seems that something must be decreasing, and how do you make these numbers close?

PATRICK PICHETTE: Look, I think that you have to remember, in the highest level, you have to remember that sites and network lines in our financials are not good proxies for search and display revenue, right? In its most simple term, YouTube, which is display, right, ends up in our Google sites and yet AFS, which is search, is included in network. So, when people actually do the math, right, it's really easy to get confused between these lines. So, I would kind of caution you to have one which is growing at 15 -- obviously being -- jumping to the conclusion that's the display. That doesn't work.

CARLOS KIRJNER : So, does that mean that a material portion of the $5 billion come from YouTube?

PATRICK PICHETTE: All I'm saying is we don't give the breakdown, but you could -- I just want to make sure that you -- caution you that because of these mix issues, right, it can lead to interpretations that are wrong.

CARLOS KIRJNER : Thank you.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thanks, Carlos. Let's go to the next question, please.

OPERATOR: We'll go next to Doug Anmuth with JPMorgan.

DOUGLAS ANMUTH, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Great. Thanks for taking the question. Just wanted to go back to the CPCs for a minute. It sounds like we can obviously take the FX out, but it sounds like you're saying that the improvements in 3Q were perhaps a much bigger factor than the mix shift toward mobile in terms of CPCs. Susan, can you provide any more color there in terms of the improvements that you made which could drive sort of a meaningful shift like that? And then secondly, tack as a percentage of advertising revenues have been down for many straight quarters now, and here they've ticked back up a little bit. Can you clarify that at all, the reason for that? Thanks.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Yes, on the latter, let me just jump in on the latter and I'll let Susan give a bit more commentary, but it's a mix issue between partners. So, as you have partner mix, it will just affect -- but it's not a dramatic number, by the way, right, it's still kind of hovering around 24, so it hasn't plummeted in any way, shape or form.

DOUGLAS ANMUTH: Is it more partner mix or is it possible that it's more mobile mix, like desktop to mobile?

PATRICK PICHETTE: Yes is the short answer. But partners mix affects it as well. Like it's not only mobile, I guess is my point. I'll let Susan give you more details on the colors, if any, on the changes that we've done that would have impacted the CPC.

SUSAN WOJCICKI: Hi, Doug. So the two biggest factors, as I mentioned, were the FX and also the changes that we made to -- in terms of ads quality or format changes that we made. And those were changes that we made in Q3. There was no one significant one that drove the metrics. Like this quarter, we made 20 different changes. Last quarter, we made something similar, and it was the combination of those different changes.

Now, it's important to remember that we rolled those out over the course of Q3, and so that meant that if we rolled one out at the end of Q3, that you wound up seeing that impact in Q4, and so there was a cumulative effect. But again, there was not any one big one. It was the sum of a bunch of other changes. And those changes that we wind up making are changes that may make the ads more readable, that may be more visible, they're UI treatments or quality changes. There are a bunch of different things that make it more visible so the users are noticing the ads, and we see those as positive. We measure the metrics. How do our users respond, how do our advertisers respond, and they are revenue positive.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Another way to think about this is, in many quarters, we would have a bunch of them that would actually move on the CPC, bunch of them that would have moved on click. It just happens that in the latter part of this year, they kind of all moved one way, which is not neither good nor bad. It just happens that the quality team and the advertising teams actually have unheard of these types of opportunities, So, it's a bit of circumstantial as well.

DOUGLAS ANMUTH: Thank you.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thanks for your question. Let's go to the next question, please.

OPERATOR: We'll take our next question from Jeetil Patel with Deutsche Bank Securities.

JEETIL PATEL, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Great, thanks. Two questions. First of all, I think Larry, early on you referred -- you talked about shuttering a couple of products and then doubling down on key products that are showing quite a bit of success. I guess, can you speak to, are you still innovating across new products around the consumer, and anything that's not tied to advertising as we look ahead? Second question, can you talk about, I guess when you look at mobile distribution costs, in general, do you envision a scenario where mobile distribution costs stay about where they are today, or how do you think those kind of play out over time as you think about the development of the mobile market?

LARRY PAGE: Thanks, Jeetil. Maybe I'll take the first question and Nikesh can take the second part of the question. I think we -- I didn't mean to imply in any way that we are stopping innovating, and I think we will continue to launch new products in new areas and things that are not necessarily advertising supported, as we have been doing for a while. And I'm very excited about that. We may not launch hundreds of such things. We may launch a few of those such things over the next few years.

I think we'll try to make sure we're more concentrated in our efforts and make sure we're producing really amazing products for our users and for our customers that are really well thought out and work really well, and we put a lot of effort into those. We've really just been concentrating our efforts around our innovation and making sure we're doing a really great job on the things that we really care about and that really matter to the world. And so, that's very consistent with sort of everything I've said. Nikesh?

NIKESH ARORA: I think on mobile distribution, it's pretty similar to what happens in search today. Many consumers get their mobile applications from Google directly on their devices. Some people get them from distribution partners and some people get them through our carriers. To be honest, the distribution cost depends on the mix of the devices, and you can see traditionally the mix is less and less specific to other distribution partners, and more and more people are organically getting access to the device and applications that they choose, given the large plethora of opportunities and options that they have.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Great. Thank you for your question. Let's go to the next question, please.

OPERATOR: And we'll go to Justin Post, Bank of AmericaMerrill Lynch.

JUSTIN POST, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Thank you. A couple things. Patrick, on the hedging program, you had $134 million loss on the expenses of getting the hedges, but you only made $25 million, and it was a pretty volatile quarter. Do you have a lot of backlog saved up for next year in profits, and is this working the way you want? Then maybe for Larry, obviously, CPC growth is really accelerating. Can you explain why that's good for Google and why you think you're going in the right direction? And the mix seems to be a big controversy, but obviously you're making these changes. Can you really explain the positive benefit to the user experience or to the Company? Thank you.

PATRICK PICHETTE: All right. So on the first question, actually, thanks for your question, Justin, because I'm sure a lot of people are thinking about that. Our hedges -- so the costs that we accelerated is actually relative to the entire portfolio of hedges that we have that spans over 18 months forward. So, think of it as a complete program that extends 18 months out, and of which -- think of it as a bond ladder with a lot in the short term and less in the long term. All of those hedges you have to mark to market. And when you have to mark to market, if they are so much in the money, then you have to actually accelerate your expensing of them.

So, you're absolutely right that today as we stand, as we close our books on the 31, they signaled about the weakness of the euro because the euro had lost quite a bit in the quarter and relative to our portfolio. So we would -- if things stayed exactly the same, we wouldn't reap a lot of benefits in the coming quarters and wouldn't have those expenses because we took them all in one shot. I hope that makes sense, and it's really tied to FASB 133 that doesn't allow you to do it early.

LARRY PAGE: I can say a little bit about CPC from my perspective. I think, and I don't have the detail here for the quarter or whatever, but I do think that CPCs do vary a fair amount, and we're not surprised by that. There are lots of product changes that we can make that can increase CPCs or decrease CPCs and kind of have an inverse effect on the number of clicks and sort of not change the actual dollars spent, for example. And that's not that surprising, because we can do things that -- and product changes that affect people's attention to ads, as Susan mentioned, or that affect the quality of the conversions that advertisers receive so they might receive better quality clicks for each CPC that they've got that's more likely to convert into what they care about. And so we are constantly optimizing all of those things, across a number of different product areas and ad placements and everything else, and our advertisers are doing the same, and the algorithms are also doing all that. I think in any healthy economic -- economy like we have of advertising, we're going to see variation in the different factors we use to measure it, and I'm not surprised by that.

JUSTIN POST: Are you happy with the results in the quarter? Are they going the direction you expected, based on the changes you made?

LARRY PAGE: As I said, I'm very happy with our results overall in the quarter. And I think those are a function of all the metrics that we gave you. But, yes, I'm happy with our results.

SUSAN WOJCICKI: Yes. One additional thing I would like to say about the increase in paid clicks is the increase in paid clicks in a lot of ways is a proxy for were the ads useful, did the users find them interesting enough to click on them, did we have enough advertisers who serve ads? So an increase in paid clicks shows that our advertising system is working, that we have more advertisers, we have more clicks, and as Larry alluded to, there are many different variables that go into it, but an increase in paid clicks is something that we see as a sign that our advertising system is in demand and it's healthy.

LARRY PAGE: Maybe we can get our next question not about CPCs.

PATRICK PICHETTE: (Laughter) Next question, please, Jamie.

OPERATOR: And we'll take our next question from Scott Devitt with Morgan Stanley.

SCOTT DEVITT, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Thanks. I'll ask about paid clicks and their relationship to CPCs. There's third party data that suggests that paid clicks continue to grow faster than free clicks. And so the 34% paid click growth that you reported, it would seem to make that fairly accurate, that there's a mix shift that's occurring in favor of paid versus free. And with search quality improvements as the driver of this potentially, it would seem that advertisers would be paying more for better distribution, yet CPC is down. So if you are to look at your business on a same-distribution basis normalized for mobile and increased ad coverage and all the other potential drags on CPC, the question is a simple one. If you look at advertisers, are they paying more or less on a unit basis for distribution?

PATRICK PICHETTE: I think that -- let me make two statements on this. The first one is, like we shy from talking about anything about specific, which is third party data, because typically we find there's so much errors in methodology issues with them. I think what we're seeing, what we have clearly seen this year once again is more holiday shopping happened online this year again, right? Nikesh talked about record Cyber Sundays and Fridays that are black and all of these things have hit record year after -- this year again, and we're seeing again the transition of offline to online.

I think that Susan's last point is really the critical point, which is as we're moving and exploring formats that really work well for both the advertiser and the user, you should see a symptom, which is more clicking, and that's exactly what we see. And if there's a slight pressure on the CPC as a consequence of it, but overall, we get a better result, that's actually a pretty healthy environment and inventive one. And again, as we mentioned, as Susan said, it happened that in Q3, we had just a number of them that just went one way. And I wouldn't read any data points in that in saying that's the future or that it will not revert back to others. That's just the nature of experimentation in our systems. So with that, why don't we go to the next question, please.

OPERATOR: And we'll go next to Jason Maynard with Wells Fargo.

JASON MAYNARD, ANALYST, WELLS FARGO SECURITIES, LLC: Hi, guys. I guess I'll spare you on CPC. I actually have a couple questions for Larry on Google Plus. Last quarter, I think you referred to it as your social layer, and I guess I almost think of it like Google's -- it's like your social operating system, I guess to a certain extent. I would love to get your vision on how you think G Plus can improve engagement across all your properties. And then the second question would be, identities that are on Facebook and Twitter, do you think ultimately those firms will open up the data stream and we could see even richer results with clearly Facebook and Twitter-like information? Thanks.

LARRY PAGE: Yes. Thank you. Thank you, Jason, for the question. Great question. I think we see, as I mentioned in my opening remarks, we see really engaging with users on really deeply understanding who they are, getting them the right things that makes sense for them and so on, is really important. And I think we're at the early stages of that, and Google Plus is a big part of that effort. And if you look at some of the things we have done, I think that if you look at in search, you could do a search now and get somebody's name and have that name really appear as a chip in the search. And that means that it's no longer a string they are searching for, it's actually a real person. That notion of identity is really a deep part of what we're doing, and it's an example of how we can make all of our products better by really understanding people. So, we definitely think about that, and there is a reason why we called it Google Plus in that way.

I think you're -- you've got the right idea in general about that. I think that with other big companies, other big companies that work on social data and so on, we've seen very much a general tendency to wall that data up into a walled garden and not make it that available. But where we have publicly been able to access that data, for example in search, we provide a lot of third party social data in search, and we love doing that. We'd love to have more switch data. But in general, I would say companies generally have been walling that data up, and we'd love to be able to use more of it.

JASON MAYNARD: Great. Can I maybe ask a follow-up and get a prediction from you in terms of how many G Plus users you expect in a year or so?

LARRY PAGE: Oh, my goodness. I won't try to predict that. We're very excited about the growth we've had, and we're certainly seeing a tremendous number of people being added every day.

JASON MAYNARD: Cool. Thank you very much.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thanks for your question. Jamie, let's go to the next question, please.

OPERATOR: And we'll go next to Ross Sandler with RBC Capital Markets.

ROSS SANDLER, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Thank you. Can you hear me?

PATRICK PICHETTE: Yes, we can.

ROSS SANDLER: Okay, two quick questions, neither on CPC. Susan, on Google Offers, quick question there. Given Groupon and Living Social's early success in this space, it seems like scale is an advantage in the local and national deals area. Is there any reason why Google's only in 30 markets to date? It seems like you've got all the merchant relationships that you need. Is there something else that's preventing a broader rollout? And then follow-up for Nikesh on Europe, you mentioned in your prepared remarks that Germany was a little weak in the quarter. Can you give us a little color on which verticals? Was it travel, retail, finance? A little color on the verticals that were weak, or was it broad-based? Thank you.

SUSAN WOJCICKI: Hi, Ross. So right now we have 30 markets to date, and that's just what we have to date. So, as there are more markets, as it makes more sense for us over time, then we will roll out more markets. But I do think that there is -- it's very important to understand what's working in a specific market and in the city and perfecting that and really understanding the dynamics that make sense for us for the success of that city. And so as we expand, we'll expand with that knowledge, and we'll expand as it makes sense for us in terms of the users, the solutions and build in all of those learnings that was made in those initial 30 markets.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Nikesh, any comments on your side?

NIKESH ARORA: Yes, I guess in terms of verticals, generally auto has been strong around the world. We've seen that. Then in different markets, different verticals have been special. In terms of the US, we had education, we had health. So, there have been different vertical performances around the world. Germany has been a market which has been doing really well for us the last few quarters. Part of it is we're running up against some very tough comps versus last year. But it was generally sort of weakness across the board. It wasn't specific to any particular vertical that has changed.

ROSS SANDLER: Great.

LARRY PAGE: I should mention, too, you can actually go to Google Insights for search and you can look at our search query graph over time for any of these verticals yourself. There's some great data.

ROSS SANDLER: Great. Thanks, guys.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thanks, again, for your question. Probably have time for one or two more questions. Let's go to the next question, please, Jamie.

OPERATOR: We'll go next to Herman Leung with Susquehanna International Group.

HERMAN LEUNG, ANALYST, SUSQUEHANNA INTERNATIONAL GROUP: Great, thanks. Just two quick questions. First, I remember last year in the fourth quarter, there was a pretty big change that you guys made on the quality side, which I think you mentioned a bit on the prepared remarks. Wondering if that -- how much of a head wind that was relative to the fourth quarter of this year, if there's a way you can sort of quantify that. The second question is, the hiring rate that you guys have made 1,100 people this quarter, wondering -- that's a bit of a slowdown from the previous quarters in the past. Wondering if there's something there to look into. Thank you.

PATRICK PICHETTE: So, one-two punch on this one, Herman. On the first one, we mentioned it because we thought it was material. It was such a big impact last year. We don't comment on the specifics, but it was sufficiently material that you're absolutely right that it created a head wind for us this year, no doubt about it. And that's why we mentioned it. On the second question, you remember that in Q3 we kind of had a double hitter where Larry had already said that we had reached what was kind of tolerable in terms of the pace of hiring.

LARRY PAGE: The edge of what is manageable.

PATRICK PICHETTE: The edge of what is manageable. Thank you, Larry, for that clarification. And we also had at the end of Q3 all of the -- we had the summer -- everybody that leaves comes from school, comes into Q3. So, we had quite a bit of a bump in Q3. We're really pleased by -- and you can see in our results now that actually it's a good evidence of we're managing -- we have managed down our numbers into Q4 and a good evidence of -- we are managing it to make it digestible for us. Thank you for your question, Herman. Why don't we go to one more question. We just have time for one more.

OPERATOR: And we'll take our final question from Youssef Squali with Jefferies & Company.

YOUSSEF SQUALI, ANALYST, JEFFERIES & COMPANY: Thanks a lot for squeezing me in. So first, one product we didn't talk much about is Google Wallet. So, I was wondering that based -- if based on your early test, is that a product that you're planning on doubling down on? And if so, what is the path to either adoption? And second on MMI, I know the deal hasn't obviously closed yet, but just given the size of that transaction, it certainly has the potential to really change Google's growth and margin profile pretty significantly, which is a big concern to many. So, at a very high level, Larry, I was wondering if you could maybe just talk about your commitment to be a principal in the handset business? And if so how do you avoid channel conflicts with the partners?

SUSAN WOJCICKI: Hi, Youssef. This is Susan. I can talk a little bit about Google Wallet. And so as Larry has mentioned a number of times, we want to focus on products that people use every day, products that are core, and all of us use our Wallet every day, and we think this is a big opportunity for us. We are continuing to invest in our wallet business, and we see a lot of opportunity. For example, there might be opportunities in the future in terms of how online and offline are linked together and better opportunities with the way different parts of our business wind up working. So, we are very excited about Wallet, and we will continue to invest in it.

LARRY PAGE: I should mention on Motorola, obviously, we're going to break that out separately as we track the changes to the margins and so on. I think that you'll be able to track the business separately, so that should not be an issue. We've been very clear with Motorola's obviously going to remain a license of Android, and Android will remain open. When we announced the deal, we really said our strategy is working with different manufacturers on lead devices is going to continue, and Motorola will bid with -- like any other OEM for those devices, so that process will be unchanged. And obviously, I think we've done a great job managing our partner ecosystem. That is a difficult thing to do, and I think we do it quite well, and I expect we're going to continue to do that well with Motorola. And obviously, it shows our commitment to Android and making sure that we have the freedom to innovate, as do all of our OEMs.

PATRICK PICHETTE: So, even more specifically, you can expect segmented reporting for Motorola. So, the Google will continue to be very clear in terms of its performance and transparency to investors. Motorola will also, on its own, be very clear and transparent to investors.

And just before we close the call, just a reminder to everybody, is that the head count question that was asked a minute ago reminded me. As we launch into Q1, it's important to remember that there's a lot of expenses. As people kind of think of resetting their models, I just want to remind everybody, because every year we go through this, that employer taxes and 401(k)s and all of the things that launch into Q1 typically get reset. And so I just want to give a friendly reminder to all the people that have financial models out there, to make sure to take that into consideration, because it surprises everybody every year. Rather than get another surprise at the end of Q1, I thought I would remind everyone. On that note, I think it's really -- I'd love to once again, on behalf of the four of us here, thank you profusely, our Googlers. They do an amazing job, and as we said, landing a great quarter, crowning a terrific year and really well set for an absolutely exciting year for 2012 and look forward to it. On that, Jamie, I'll let you close the call.

OPERATOR: Thank you, sir. That does conclude today's conference. We appreciate everyone's participation.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
goog : Google Inc.
   IN
i8395464 : Internet Search Engines | iint : Internet/Online Services
   NS
c151 : Earnings | c22 : New Products/Services | ntra : Transcript | c32 : Advertising | c15 : Performance | c31 : Marketing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020120202e81j004xt
  


 HD
 Q3  2011 Google Inc Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
10,436 words
   PD
13 October 2011
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©011 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day, everyone and welcome to the Google, Inc third-quarter 2011 earnings conference call. This call is being recorded. At this time, I'd like to turn the conference over to Ms. Jane Penner, Head of Investor Relations. Please go ahead, ma'am.

   TD
JANE PENNER, IR, GOOGLE INC: Good afternoon everyone, and welcome to today's third-quarter 2011 earnings conference call. With us are Larry Page, Chief Executive Officer, Patrick Pichette, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Susan Wojcicki, Senior Vice President, Advertising, Nikesh Arora, Senior Vice President and Chief Business Officer. First, Larry, Patrick, Nikesh, and Susan will provide us with their thoughts on the quarter. Also, as you know, we now distribute our earnings release through our investor relations website located at investor.Google.com so please refer to our IR website for our earnings release, as well as supplementary slides that accompany the call. This call is being also Webcast from investor.Google.com. A replay of the call will be available on our website in a few hours.

Now, let me quickly cover the Safe Harbor. Some of the statements that we make today may be considered forward-looking, including statements regarding Google's future investments and our long-term growth and innovation, the expected performance of our business and our expected level of capital expenditures. These statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially. Please note that these forward-looking statements reflect our opinions only as of the date of this presentation, and we undertake no obligation to revise or publicly release the results of any revisions to these forward-looking statements, in light of new information, or future events. Please refer to our SEC filings for a more detailed description of the risk factors that may affect our results.

Please note that certain financial measures we use on this call, such as operating income and operating margin, are also expressed on a non-GAAP basis, on a non-GAAP basis and have been adjusted to exclude charges related to stock-based compensation. We've also adjusted our net cash provided by operating activities to remove capital expenditures, which we refer to as free cash flow. Our GAAP results and reconciliations of non-GAAP to GAAP metric measures can be found in our earnings press release. With that, I'll now turn the call over to Larry.

LARRY PAGE, CEO, GOOGLE INC: Well, thank you, and it's great to be here, and thanks for taking the time to be with us today. When I look back over the last quarter, the word that springs to mind is gangbusters. Revenue was up 33% year-on-year and our quarterly revenue was just short of $10 billion, not bad for a 13-year-old. I'm also incredibly excited about the progress we've made on the product side. Ever since taking over as CEO, I have focused much of my energy on increasing Google's velocity and execution, and we're beginning to see results.

Look at Google Plus. We had 100 features launched in 90 days, the team is really cranking. We had hangouts on the phone, hangouts on air, Will.i.am did a hang out from his concert in Central Park, you can now share circles, you can search Google Plus, and you can play games in Google Plus, and far most exciting of all, open sign-ups, Google Plus for everyone. Looking at the numbers for Google Plus, I was taken aback. I now want to announce that we've passed the 40 million user mark on Google Plus. People are flocking into Google Plus at an incredible rate, and we're just getting started.

The engagement we're seeing is phenomenal too. Over 3.4 billion photos have already been uploaded in Google Plus, but it's still incredibly early days for Google Plus, because our goal is actually far bigger than the individual feature launches themselves. Our ultimate ambition is to transform the overall Google experience, making it beautifully simple, almost automagical, as we understand what you want and can deliver it instantly.

This means baking identity and sharing into all of our products, so that we build a real relationship with our users. Sharing on the web will be like sharing in real-life across all your stuff. You'll have better, more relevant, search results and ads. Think about it this way. Last quarter, we shipped the Plus and now we're going to ship the Google parts. The new visual design, beautiful consistent UIs for Search, News, Maps, Translate, and lots of other features is only the beginning of that process.

Last quarter, I talked about focus, and we've made great progress here too. To create products that really change people's lives, that they use every day 2 or 3 times a day is really hard, so we have to make tough decisions about what to focus on, or we end up doing things that don't have the impact that we strive for. Since we last spoke, we've begun the process of shutting over 20 different products including Sidewiki, Google Pack, Google Notebook and Fast Flip and we'll continue to simplify and streamline our products going forward. This prioritization is crucial if we are to really invest in the extraordinary opportunities in front of Google today.

Let me give you a few examples. Chrome. Usage is going through the roof. We've now hit over 200 million users, and still growing fast. Turns out that people really care about getting to the web quickly and securely and having a whole ecosystem of apps at their fingertips. I'm super pleased with Google Maps, it's a favorite with our users, especially on mobile devices. In August, we launched in 40 new countries, taking our total to 130 countries.

The growth of Android is mind-boggling too. Over 190 million devices have now been activated globally. I'm super excited about the soon-to-be released new version of Android called Ice Cream Sandwich. That's right, Ice Cream Sandwich. You won't believe what we've managed to get done in this release. We're also seeing a huge positive revenue impact from Mobile, which has grown 2.5 X in the last 12 months to a run rate of over $2.5 billion.

Generally, I have found that high-usage products will make a lot of money over time for well-managed technology companies, and that's why it's so important to run these businesses for the long-term. That said, we must never lose sight of the fact that today's revenues and growth serves the engine that funds all of our future innovation.

People are a crucial part of Google's long term success, since great companies are no greater than the efforts and ingenuity of their employees, so our goal is to hire the best people at every level and keep them at Google. Our hiring has to be manageable if we are to balance our short and long-term needs. You may have noticed quite substantial hiring this quarter driven in part by a lot of University graduates, despite the seasonal effect, the total number of people we hired was about the same as last quarter. Our attrition remains low, which is great, though obviously contributes to our overall current headcount. As I have said previously, I continue to believe that our headcount growth is the edge of what's manageable.

Let me finish by saying that we are still at the very early stages of what technology can deliver. These tools we use online will look very different in 5 years time. We're building those tools now as Google Plus, which is why I'm so excited to be here. So thank you, and again, we had a great quarter, and now I'll turn it over to Patrick.

PATRICK PICHETTE, SVP, CFO, PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING OFFICER, GOOGLE INC: Thank you, Larry. Good afternoon, everyone, and thanks for joining us. Let me first turn to the specifics of our performance in the quarter from a financial perspective. Our gross revenue grew 33% year-over-year to $9.7 billion and 8% quarter-over-quarter. Note that while some currency fluctuation boosted our revenue again this quarter, a little bit, even in constant FX terms, our growth rates remain very strong.

Our Google website revenue was up 39% year-over-year to $6.7 billion, and 8% quarter-over-quarter with strength across most major geographies and verticals in fact. Our Google network revenue was up 18% year-over-year to $2.6 billion, and 4% quarter-over-quarter. On the one hand, year-over-year network revenue growth slowed slightly, due to a few factors including the Search quality changes that we made earlier this year that we already commented on. On the other hand, the momentum of our Display business which comprises only part of the network line, continues, and I guess we'll have more to say on this in a few minutes.

Our other revenue was up also 52% year-over-year to $385 million and that was up 24% quarter-over-quarter. Our global aggregate paid click growth was very strong, up 28% year-over-year, and up 13% quarter-over-quarter. The corollary, the aggregate cost per click growth was up 5% year-over-year and down 5% quarter-over-quarter. Remember, too, that doesn't aggregate number, which includes both Google.com and our AdSense properties. As usual, there's some variability quarter-over-quarter in these metrics, but overall, we continue to be very pleased with our revenue, and the performance of our ad system. Again, Susan will give you a few more comments in a few minutes.

So turning to our geographic performance, the US and rest of world are growing at a very healthy pace, and our results clearly reflect that. Even the UK continues to show some positive momentum. In our earnings slides, which you'll find on our investor relations website, you'll see that we've broken down our revenue by US, UK, rest of world to show the impact of FX and the benefits from our hedging program, so please refer to those slides for the exact calculations.

Our revenue from the US was up 26% year-over-year to $4.4 billion. Our non-US revenue accounted for 55% of total revenue or $5.3 billion, up 41% year-over-year, which includes a modest $1 million of benefits from our hedging program and this is compared to $89 million benefit in Q3 of last year. The UK was up 25% to $1 billion, and year-over-year growth in fixed FX still is pretty healthy and would have been 20%, or is 20%.

Let me now turn to expenses. Our traffic acquisition growth and costs were $2.2 billion or 23.7% of total advertising revenue and our other cost of revenue was $1.1 billion, which excludes stock based compensation of $72 million. Finally, operating expenses, also excluding SBC, totaled $2.8 billion and SBC itself totaled $499 million in Q3. So our increased year-over-year in SBC is primarily due to the annual equity refresh, which we do at this time of year, and the increase in year-over-year for our OpEx was primarily due, as usual, in payroll, increased professional services and advertising and promotion spend. So as a result of all this, our non-GAAP operating profit was $3.6 billion in Q3, which excludes SBC, and are resulting in non-GAAP operating margin of 37.3%.

Headcount was approximately up by 2,585 versus Q2, ending the quarter with 31,353 full-time employees, and as Larry already noted, there are 2 factors at work here. Q3 usually has significant headcount additions, and this quarter is no exception, due to a bumper crop of University hires. In fact, we had the second highest number of University hires in Google's history this quarter. Additionally, acquisitions this quarter added a large number of people as well. Our effective tax rate was 19% in Q3, flat with Q2, and the lower tax rate is driven by a mix of earnings between domestic and international subsidiaries.

Now, let me turn to cash management. Other income and expense was $302 million for Q3. OI&E was driven by strong portfolio management performance and additionally, we saw lower than expected FX cash flow hedging expenses, due to the strengthening of the US dollar in September. For more details on OI& E, again please refer to the slides that accompany this call on our IR website.

Operating cash flow was very strong at $4 billion. Our CapEx for the quarter, down from last quarter, to $680 million and the majority of the CapEx once again in Q3 was related to facilities and production equipment and as a reminder, we continue to make these significant investments in CapEx and these have shown to be lumpy from quarter to quarter, depending on where we're able to make these investments. We're very pleased with our free cash flow and consequence of all this which was $3.3 billion.

So before handing it over to Nikesh, I know that many of you have had questions about general economic outlook and have been kind of asking us those questions. Look, what we're seeing is not terribly surprising or different from what you're all seeing, watching on TV, reading in the press. And while obviously we don't control the economy or the exchange rates that fluctuate so much, we do very much control our own operating agenda, and that's why we will, as always, stay focused on what we control our agenda for the long-term, with a strategy and investments that are not calibrated for quarter-to-quarter views but really designed to create, as Larry said, fantastic products that transform our users' lives and create significant value for our shareholders. With that let me hand it off to Nikesh, who will cover details in our sales performance this quarter. Nikesh?

NIKESH ARORA, SVP, CHIEF BUSINESS OFFICER, GOOGLE INC: Thank you, Patrick. I'll give you an update on our business activities. To reiterate what Patrick said, we saw strong performance across our portfolio, supported by the strength of our products. Our sales, customer support, marketing and partnership activities drove $9.7 billion in revenue this quarter.

First let me talk about results for our advertising products, then our performance by region, and finally, some highlights from our amazing marketing team. On Search, our core desktop search business maintained its momentum. Google.com growth was faster than one year ago. Our syndicated search revenue also accelerated this quarter, with new large [global dees] contributing to our growth. Their [multi links] work better by working closely with our clients to grow the value of Search advertising. What's interesting is, we're increasingly able to link search marketing efforts to both online and offline sales with various other media. This quarter, we worked with our clients such as leading apparel retailer H&M to promote sales through classic search campaigns, additionally clients like J&J and Sharpie use search advertising support large online branding campaigns with other media like YouTube and our Google Display Network.

Moving on to Display, growth this quarter was robust. With products like YouTube and Google Display Network, we're giving advertisers more options to engage with their customers online. What's interesting is we've seen a marked increase in our average spending since 2009. 2009, our top 20 Display deals averaged approximately $2 million each and now, when our top deals are over 7 times larger, averaging approximately $15 million each.

Some of our biggest Display campaigns this quarter from came DreamWorks and Disney, we've launched Space Lab, a partnership between YouTube and Lenovo, this is a video competition for 14 to 18-year-olds in which winners will have the opportunity to send a science experiment to the International Space Station. So we keep doing interesting things to try and keep driving more usage and more revenues for YouTube and our Google Display Network. We have equally strong traction with our ad agency partners, with whom we're very excited about the partnerships we've developed. Just over the past 6 months, we've signed Display deals with agencies which total almost $600 million to help deliver online advertising options to our shared customers, which are part of our Display initiative.

Next turning to Mobile advertising. Larry mentioned $2.5 billion, as a run rate. Our revenue growth continues to accelerate, even in mobile, driven primarily by mobile search. This growth obviously is driven both by the underlying expansion of Android devices and tablets as well as stellar performance by our sales teams, while working closely with our customers to help them craft compelling mobile advertising solutions. Many advertisers have greatly increased the size and frequency of their mobile campaigns, mobile is becoming a must-have. This includes clients like Intercontinental Hotels Group, which spans pretty much across our entire portfolio of properties, including Mobile Search, Mobile GDN and AdMob.

Moving our sites to enterprise, we see continued revenue acceleration in our enterprise business, more companies are fundamentally going Google. Our apps products continue strong growth with the recent app wins with people like Goodyear and SoftBank of Japan. We're particularly excited obviously, also, that we've just deployed apps to 450,000 teachers in Morocco. Finally, Chromebooks have been available for purchase since mid-June and we're beginning to see lots of interest and good uptake, both from the businesses and educational institutions.

Let's shift gears and look at our country performance. If you look across countries, we continue to see strong business growth despite uncertainty in the global economy. In particular, North America was broadly stable this quarter, US revenues have stayed on their growth trajectory, and Canada has actually accelerated. In much of Western Europe, we have seen some softness in ad sales; however in markets like Spain, we are seeing that our sales execution efforts are continuing to keep our revenue stable and in some cases accelerate the revenue growth.

Of course, across Asia and our key emerging markets we grew much faster. Japan's post-earthquake recovery has continued, and has been driven primarily by large advertisers. We also see revenue growth in Australia, India, Brazil. They are all strong and they continue on the strong growth trajectory.

Finally let me spend a few minutes on marketing and partnerships. Our marketing and partnership programs continue to help scale and grow usage of our products. To start, we're very proud of our Get Your Business Online program. This is a campaign which basically, we work with our partners, we help small businesses and bring their companies online. This is great for the business, it's great for the economy, and this is great for future add spending, so during Q3 we helped 7,000 US businesses get online in places like Texas, Vermont, Kansas and Missouri.

We also drove multiple customer launches this year. Our teams have helped expand the footprint for Google Offers, our Deals business to about 11 cities in the US, after our pilot last quarter in Portland. Additionally, we continue to grow Chrome user base, which I talked about, the penetration continues to go with our campaign called The Better Web Campaign. We've laid the foundation for Chrome Books, which I talked about. If you haven't had a chance, if you fly Virgin America, you might have the opportunity to surf on a Chromebook in flight. Finally, we've supporting the growth of Google Plus which we're very excited about, building a richer user experience by connecting users and prominent public figures, celebrities, including Will.i.am from right on stage, Britney Spears, Richard Branson just to name a few.

In closing, we had a phenomenal Q3 and we hope to continue the good work for our customers, partners and users in Q4. I'll now turn it over to my partner and colleague, Susan, who will discuss the product performance this quarter.

SUSAN WOJCICKI, SVP - ADVERTISING, GOOGLE INC: Thanks, Nikesh. Let's start by talking about Search. We had another great quarter for Search quality, with over 100 launches. We improved our preview feature, so that when you hoverer your mouse over search results, a large thumbnail of the site appears on the right. We also expanded the site links feature to include more links, with full snippets for each link.

A good example of this is when you search on Metropolitan Museum of Art. You can see links to exhibits, the store, and general information. What I love about features like these is they magically make Google easier to use.

The same goes for our new speedy flight search option. When you enter a query like SFO to JFK, and then click on the flight link on the left-hand side panel, you can see all of the different flight options. You can sort it in a variety of ways, airline, pricing, non-stop, times, and bring up a map that shows the flight route and other potential destination and prices. Flight search combines ITA expertise with Google technology. We are still very early with the product. Think of this first version as the take off, not the final destination.

Turning to our ads business, as Patrick mentioned before, our revenue growth was very strong. We are pleased with the paid click growth, which increased this quarter, while keeping ad quality high. After a number of quarters of strong CPC growth, we continue to see year-on-year CPC growth. As we have said in the past, these average CPC metrics incorporate a number of factors, including mix effects such as mobile and emerging markets as well as true changes to keyword prices. It's also important to look at clicks and CPC metrics together, since more clicks can often lead to decreases in average CPC and vice versa.

We also made a number of improvements to our core advertising product. Starting with the local and the small business market, we launched AdWords Express in the US, and started product trials in the UK, Germany and France. There are a lot of businesses who want to advertise online, and they haven't done so because they're too busy running their business. AdWords Express makes it possible for these businesses to start running an ad campaign in just a few minutes. The advertiser gives us some basic information, and we do all of the rest, the keywords and the bids are automated. We're excited about this product because we believe it's the first time we've successfully simplified all aspects of AdWords, while keeping its effectiveness for local and small businesses, and the results so far are quite positive with our advertisers. With regard to the local market, we also expanded Google Offers to 11 cities, the latest launch was in Miami last week.

On the other end of the spectrum are large businesses and agencies. We made a number of significant improvements to Google Analytics this quarter, since we know when site owners have more insights into site traffic, and better information about how to optimize their campaigns, they tend to increase their spend. This quarter, we launched multi-channel funnels in Google Analytics. This gives marketers aggregate information an insights into the full path to conversion, including clicks from paid and organic searches, and Display ads, not simply the last click, so advertisers can tell which marketing and ad programs are working.

We also added realtime reporting to Google Analytics, so that marketers and publishers can see what is happening on their site right now. This is especially useful to measure the immediate impact of social media, so if you put up a new blog post, or you send out a Google Plus update, you can instantly see what happens to your site traffic. We also launched a premium version of Analytics with more data, advanced tools, dedicated support and service level guarantees.

Nikesh mentioned how well things are going with Display advertising. From a product perspective, we would like to highlight interest category marketing. We completed rolling it out to all advertisers at the end of Q2, and since then thousands of advertisers have signed up and the annual run rate has doubled. With interest categories, we look at the types of pages a user visits, and associates their browser with relevant interest categories such as ecotourism, mobile phones or hybrid cars. Then advertisers can show that user relevant ads across all types of sites. Users can opt out at any time, but the results of interest category ads is that they are more useful to users and more effective for advertisers, which in turn leads to higher returns for publishers.

We are making it a lot easier for advertisers to set up and manage video ad campaigns on YouTube and the Google Display Network as well. We began beta testing AdWords for video, which integrates video buying campaigns directly into the AdWords interface. The momentum around Google Plus is starting to apply to our ad products as well. Users can now plus-one Display ads on the Google Display Network and have plus one buttons on search ads and results since the end of Q1. Although it's still pretty early, our data shows us that ads and results that are socially annotated are more relevant for users.

Finally, we shipped Google Wallet to Sprint Nexus S 4G phones and started working with Visa, American Express and Discover as partners so their cards could be added to future versions of the apps. This morning I bought my latte using my phone as a wallet. I'm looking forward to leaving my traditional wallet at home in the future. That's it for now. Thanks, and back to Patrick.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thank you, Susan. So, we'll circle back with Jamie to open up the call and take your questions. Thank you, Susan, Nikesh, and Larry so everybody grabs their handset and we're ready to go, Jamie. We'll look for your instructions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: Thank you. (Operator Instructions). We'll take our first question from Brian Pitz with UBS.

BRIAN PITZ, ANALYST, UBS: I've noted the proliferation of newer richer ad formats like product listing ads. Can you help us to understand the impact on your financial model? Are they more or less profitable to you, and then secondly, on your comments on western European ad sale softness, is the softness across all formats or are Mobile and Display holding up generally better? Thanks.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thank you for your question, Brian. I think I'll ask Nikesh to answer that.

NIKESH ARORA: Yes, I think we are constantly improving Search as well as improving our ad format so if you look at our revenues, we are always there trying to drive new ad formats to our customers, because we believe they provide better information, both to the user as well as their bid for the advertiser. Effectively, I'm not going to comment on the profitability of the ad formats, except for the fact they are great for users and advertisers, and if good ads are delivered and users click on them more, obviously, it will have impact on the financials. I think you can figure that one out.

In terms of my comment on the western European ad sales, it was more of a relative comment vis-a-vis prior quarters as opposed to an absolute comment about softness. Generally, we're seeing the economic impact in some of those markets might flow through to some of these things, but it's just mildly soft and we're generally comfortable, generally, grades are going up, people are happier with Mobile, people are happier in Display, we're seeing Search query growth so it's a bit of a mix across-the-board but it's a slight softness, not weakness.

BRIAN PITZ: Great, thanks.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thank you for your question. Let's go to the next question please?

OPERATOR: We'll go next to Mark Mahaney with Citi.

MARK MAHANEY, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Thanks. On that pay click growth, that's real sharp acceleration, yet the organic revenue growth didn't sharply accelerate, so could you just provide some color on that? Is that just this market shift towards Mobile searches? What's driving that and secondly, what's behind that other revenue, that really spiked as well? Thank you very much.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thanks, Mark. I'll let Susan take that. Susan?

SUSAN WOJCICKI: Yes, hi, Mark. So there were certainly a number of factors at play in terms of the CPC and the paid click growth, but the most important thing that I want to emphasize is that it's really important to look at these 2 factors together, since they often move in reverse from one another. The other thing is there certainly was a mix factor, where we do see changes in our mix, and that sometimes does have impacts on how our CPCs are, how the aggregate winds up being affected.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Just on other revenue, let me comment on the other revenue. It really is the year-over-year impact of ITA, so Mark, that's really the key issue there.

MARK MAHANEY: Thank you very much.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thank you. Let's go to the next question please?

OPERATOR: We'll go next to Spencer Wang, with Credit Suisse.

SPENCER WANG, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Thanks for taking the question. Just 2 quick ones if I could. First, Larry, on the $2.5 billion Mobile run rate revenue, could you give us a rough sense of how much of that is Mobile search versus Display, perhaps, and then the second question relates to the people strategy. Given Larry, what you said about being at the edge of what's manageable, should we expect headcount growth to moderate in Q4 and into 2012, and are you contemplating any sort of adjustments to base salaries, as you saw earlier this year? Thanks.

LARRY PAGE: Yes, thanks for the question there. And I think that we're not going to break out more than we've already given you there, so we thought it was important to show the tremendous success of our business, and so we wanted to give you a nice milestone for that, but we aren't going to break out more data. And also about headcount, like I said, I'd already said we're at the edge of what's manageable in terms of our headcount growth, and you see the numbers, as I said, were consistent with last quarter. I think we are always running our business very carefully and prudently, and making sure we're investing in the right places, and we make those kind of decisions every day, and we don't give guidance on what we're going to do in the future.

SPENCER WANG: Great, thank you.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thank you. Let's go to the next question, please, Jamie?

OPERATOR: We'll go next to Ben Schachter with Macquarie.

BENJAMIN SCHACHTER, ANALYST, MACQUARIE RESEARCH: Hi guys, congratulations on the quarter. A couple questions. First, could you discuss the strategy around video content? It seems to me there's sort of UGC, premium and then, all the stuff in between. Is that how you're thinking about it, and if it is, how are you thinking about emphasizing each area, and then just quickly on emerging markets, you mentioned India and Brazil. Any chance you could quantify some of that, how fast are these markets growing, how big are they overall some are these top 10 markets? How big are they in the overall scheme of the different countries? Thanks.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Ben, thanks for your question. I think we think about, certainly YouTube is just tremendously successful, and it's growing gangbusters in every way, and we see that site as redefining ways we think about video and I'd also note that it's a very small percentage of people's overall video usage still, so we see opportunities for tremendous growth there. I think the other interesting thing about YouTube is it really blurs the lines between the kinds of content you're talking about. You can move from one type of content to another very easily, and we're finding our users don't really think about it that way. They think about having a great user experience, and we see it as serving our users well, and serving all the content creators well, regardless of their size, and that seems to be working great for us. And for the second part, Nikesh will take that.

NIKESH ARORA: Yes, we're not going to break out the numbers for India and Brazil, but what I can give you directionally is both of them are very important markets for us. Our products are successful, you see search traffic continuing to rise, YouTube is very popular, Chrome is very popular, so we're very happy with the usage of our products and we believe there's tremendous sort of runway in product usage in those markets because of the changing characteristics of those markets, both from an online penetration perspective and the economic growth perspective of those markets. So with that sort of tail wind behind us, we have great teams on the ground which are driving businesses to come on line, and we're seeing tremendous growth in the ad side pretty much across-the-board in Display, Search and Mobile. So we're very happy with the success in those markets, and the progress of those markets. I'll just give you that as a direction statement.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thanks for your question. Let's go to the next question please?

OPERATOR: We'll go next to Heather Bellini with Goldman Sachs.

HEATHER BELLINI, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Hi, good afternoon and sorry for the background noise. I'm at the airport, but I wanted to ask if you could give us a sense for how much growth in Mobile impacted click growth this quarter, and how sustainable you think that level is. And also, if you could just tell us a little bit on the progress you're seeing in narrowing the gap between CPCs, between Mobile and traditional Search. Thank you.

SUSAN WOJCICKI: Hello. Yes, this is Susan here. So first of all, we don't really break out how mobile impacted any specific part of paid growth or CPC. I will say that our ad system is designed to be very flexible. There are always lots of different factors at play that we see changing in terms of users, queries, advertisers, bids, and so really, we are designing our ad system to be as flexible, based on what we're seeing at that specific moment. In terms of narrowing the gap between CPCs of Mobile and traditional Search, we see a lot of opportunity for us to continue to grow Mobile, and for example, advertisers having landing pages that are mobile-enabled, we can continue to improve a lot of our algorithms, so we see opportunity for us to continue to improve that over time.

LARRY PAGE: I would mention too, Heather, that the mobile phones are just getting amazing. You'll see our work there and other people's works coming out that I think that your experience on phone could actually get to be better than your experience on a computer. The phone knows where you are, and can help you even when you're mobile and so on. So I definitely, we definitely see that the experience on Mobile improving greatly, especially with Android.

SUSAN WOJCICKI: We've introduced a number of formats, just kind of building on Larry's point so we have advertisers we can give location, we can actually say if you search on one specific store, that store is 0.1 miles from where you're located right now with a map, or include a phone number, when you click on the phone number, then that's like a CPC, so we're seeing that there are a lot of formats that we can really optimize for mobile which will make for a great user and advertiser experience.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thank you for your question. Let's go not next question, please, Jamie?

OPERATOR: We'll go next to Justin Post with Bank of America-Merrill Lynch.

JUSTIN POST, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Thank you. Larry, I know you have to be careful because of litigation but maybe you could help us understand what steps Google can take to help defend the Android ecosystem on a big picture basis? There's a lot of questions about some licensing threats out there. And then secondly, maybe it's for Patrick. Can you tell us what verticals performed well in the quarter? I know you've been able to do that in the past, but which verticals really did well in the quarter, and maybe others that might have been a little slower, thanks.

LARRY PAGE: Yes, thanks, Justin for your question. I think we are very, like I mentioned, we're very excited about Android and we see our partners and the whole ecosystem continuing to grow hugely, and while there's been lots of people trying to attack that and so on, we see absolutely no signs that that's effective and ultimately, we think that other companies actions there will alienate their customers and their relationships with the other companies. So if anything, we see our strategy as getting stronger there. Obviously, we announced our intention around Motorola, and we're serious about protecting the Android ecosystem, and making sure that it continues to be incredibly successful but we feel good about our efforts there.

PATRICK PICHETTE: And on my side, Justin, look, we again are quite a reflection of the economy around us, so the US some of the verticals that have been stronger, right? Travel, auto, you go to rest of world interestingly, retail, which is not as strong in the US than it would be in the rest of world, because there's more activity in real estate and retail in rest of world. And in the case of the UK, automobiles have been kind of particularly strong, and so these are the kind of verticals, again they are a snapshot and reflection of the economy around us, and maybe Nikesh has more color commentary on it.

NIKESH ARORA: Thank you, Patrick. I agree with everything Patrick said. I think the only sort of non-secular event happening that we are continuing to see strength in the CPG verticals because we are doing well in Display and CPG are traditionally verticals that advertise more in display. So there was a bit of a opportunity there, whereas search wasn't their prime focus but those guys are doing really well with the display offerings we have for them. But I agree with Patrick with everything else.

JUSTIN POST: Thank you.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thanks, Justin. Let's go to the next question please?

OPERATOR: We'll go next to Doug Anmuth with JPMorgan.

DOUGLAS ANMUTH, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Great. Thanks for taking the question. 2 things. First, one business you didn't really talk about was Google Offers. I was hoping you could add some more color there in terms of your strategy, and what you think you can do differently in this space. And secondly, I know this is probably tougher, but just related to MMI, we've obviously seen examples in the past around CPTN and Intel and McAfee around writing in concessions in certain ways. Is that something that Google would potentially be willing to do in terms of licensing patents to open source software and also delivering product updates and road maps at the same time as for MMI. Thanks.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Okay, I think Nikesh will take the first question there.

NIKESH ARORA: Thank you for your question. I guess it's early days for Google Offers. As I mentioned, we have expanded from one Portland trial to over 11 cities in the US, and we are leveraging some of the sales efforts we already have with our ads business. We are leveraging our relationships with small and medium size businesses.

Google Offers for us is just one part in the overall opportunity to work with SMB, so it's early days. We're very happy with the progress we've made so far. You might have seen us launch Google Wallet, it's also part of an enablement strategy for that, so, so far so good. Very pleased with the progress so far.

LARRY PAGE: And as you know, Motorola Deals is under review and I think it will be premature for us to comment about anything we might do with regards to that.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thanks for your question, Doug. Let's go to our next question please, Jamie.

OPERATOR: Thank you. Our next question comes from Scott Devitt with Morgan Stanley.

SCOTT DEVITT, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Great, thanks. Just had 2 questions. In certain areas like shopping, payments, travel, reviews, and mortgages, the Company seems to continue to get deeper into the purchase network, closer to the actual transaction and Susan, you noted the ITA example on the call. I was wondering if you could talk a little more broadly about this more vertical approach, the benefits of it, and the categories you're particularly focused on and then secondly, non-cash stock based comp I think was up 31% sequential, and 50% year-over-year, Patrick, you noted the annual grant. I was just wondering if this is the new run rate or if there was something one-time or potentially there's been a change in the cash versus non-cash comp. Thanks.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Why don't I answer the last question first and then flip it over to Susan. I mean, it really, you're seeing the full-year impact of our salary raises last year flowing through in all aspects of our compensation, so when we did the equity refresh this quarter, obviously, it's augmented by the fact that people have 10% more salary and all of the corollary issues around it. So it is a one-time item, but you're changing the plateau if you wish, and then it flows through into the next year and then it will stabilizes itself. That's the best way to think about it and then on the issue of the verticalization? I'll let Larry take a crack at it, please.

LARRY PAGE: Yes, thanks, Patrick. I think that we really think about Google as providing the exact right answers when you need them, and those things are not necessarily particular websites or whatever. They are actually maybe actually trying to get very specific pieces of information like you do, with an airline ticket for example, as we were talking about, so I think we see this as a general instance of a problem of just making search work better, across anything you might want to be able to do, and we're pursuing that in a lot of different areas, and have for our whole history basically. So I think you'll see us do a better job of providing a great user experience on more and more specific things over time and that's what we do when we make a better search engine.

SCOTT DEVITT: Thank you.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Why don't we go to the next question. Thank you for your question, Scott.

OPERATOR: We'll go next to Ross Sandler with RBC Capital Markets.

ROSS SANDLER, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Thank you, guys. I've got 2 questions. First, a quick follow-up on Android. So we've seen some of the Android partners now agreeing to pay Microsoft licensing fees, so in order to protect the ecosystem, is Google planning on subsidizing a portion of these fees, or is there, how does that strategy play out?

And then second question on Google Wallet. Is the long-term plan here to partner with other financial transmitters like PayPal and maybe the credit card networks for some of the heavy lifting in the payment space or does Google plan on kind of vertically integrating with the banking system to offer customer service and risk management around transactions for the Google Wallet customers? Thanks.

LARRY PAGE: Well, thanks, Ross for your questions. I think that maybe I'll answer just generally. Rather than seeing for example, Microsoft competes in the marketplace with their own SmartPhones, they've really continued resorting to legal measures, to hassle their own customers, right? So it seems kind of odd, and we haven't seen the details of those total agreements, and I suspect that our partners are making good deals for them, themselves there, and so while there's a lot of press around that, we're really looking forward to our announcements with Samsung next week, which I think will be very exciting and like I said, we see Android growing gangbusters, and we don't see anything that's going to stop that.

On your second question about Google Wallet and so on, I think we're at a very early, we just released a phone with Sprint, the Nexus S that's sold out, and has had tremendous demand, and we think that the customers who have gotten that experience are amazingly excited about it, and like Susan mentioned, she can buy her coffee that way, and that's an amazing experience, and we're just at the very early stages of that.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thanks, Larry for your answer. Why don't we go, Jamie to the next question, please?

OPERATOR: We'll go next to Jeetil Patel with DB.

JEETIL PATEL, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Hi, a couple of questions. Can you talk about in the Mobile business as a whole, how do you structure some of the revenue-sharing agreements that you have on the advertising side relative to in-browser searches, and I guess who is it typically that you're typically paying for that distribution, the wireless carriers, the handset vendors and how do you see that evolve going forward and then I have a quick follow-up around kind of vertical integration. You've seen companies launch new devices, hardware-wise to layer on top of some of the content and applications they sit on, you've obviously looked at Motorola now, and you're stacking from hardware OS into the applications environment. Do you think that as you look at mobility, the world, there's a unique opportunity to develop a much richer, deeper relationship, and I guess maybe a little bit more elaboration on the vertical integration there, that you're looking at.

LARRY PAGE: Yes, I mean I think it's an exciting time. There's a lot of innovation going on in different business models and so on, I think we're very excited about our Android ecosystem, and the growth of that, and I think that we have a very successful strategy there as you see from the numbers that we talked about, over 190 million devices and growing quickly. So I think there's many, you're asking about different kinds of structures, but we're very excited about the structure we have now, and about continuing that growth and continuing to evolve that platform ecosystem. And maybe Nikesh can take the second part.

NIKESH ARORA: Thank you. I think Larry is right there. There are many interesting models out there. As you know, Android is an open ecosystem and our mobile strategy is a very partner-focused strategy. So in many cases, we work with various partners to deliver the experience to the end-user, and there are different partners, there are different value they bring to the equation, whether it's distribution, whether it's making Google Search part of the services, whether it's allowing us to be an ad serving platform. So each of the relationships is slightly different and they have different negotiated deals with them, but generally speaking, I think we believe there's a fair value transfer to whoever in the ecosystem brings value to the table. And we get our fair share for providing services in that ecosystem.

LARRY PAGE: We've been very successful with these models on the web and we have a lot of experience with it, and I think we're good at doing those kind of deals.

JEETIL PATEL: It seems like owning content at least in the mobile space seems to be a differentiator. Is that something that you possibly look at longer term, is that owning more the content structure out there?

LARRY PAGE: I think again we're not going to comment on what we might or might not do. I think that we've had very successful models for a long time without owning content. And I think many of the models you see don't involve people owning content, but actually selling it or distributing it in various ways, and I expect that will continue.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thank you for your question. Jamie, let's go to the next question please?

OPERATOR: We'll go next to Jason Maynard with Wells Fargo.

JASON MAYNARD, ANALYST, WELLS FARGO SECURITIES, LLC: Thank you, good afternoon guys. One of the threads through a lot of these questions in the Mobile market is how do you increase monetization and where we're at. And one of the things I'd love to get your view on is, where are we at in the process of bringing together some of the disparate local services, how does Offers intertwine and when does that take on a little bit more of a unified field versus a set of one-off products that a user would use?

LARRY PAGE: Thanks, Jason. I think that's a great question. I think the first thing to keep in mind is that we're still very early in the mobile business and you see it's incredibly exciting business, just a lot of activity. The user experiences are getting tremendously better and just growing like crazy and there's a lot of economic activity and so on. So we've done well by having a long term view of that, and I think that we also sort of want to balance having total integration with really fast iteration and fast progress and experimentation and I think you definitely, I mentioned our unified look and feel that we've rolled out on Google, which I'm very excited about, and we'll continue to do things like that, that really unify experience and make it more intuitive for people. But we're also going to do some experimentation also on new things and have a little bit less integrated, so it's always a mix of that.

I think that Offers specifically, we think about our local business as being, how do we help merchants and users, users like yourself, get really good information and help the merchants get the right users at the right time, and for the right amount of money and so on. And that's a very hard problem, across a whole bunch of different areas, basic information about merchants interaction between the merchants and end-users and we have things going on in all of those spaces. And it's going to be a mix of again rapid iteration, and also the integration of those things into then a more cohesive whole and I'm very excited about that space. Our next question?

OPERATOR: We'll take our next question from Anthony DiClemente with Barclays Capital.

ANTHONY DICLEMENTE, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Thank you very much. I have 2. The first question is for Patrick or Susan. You sized your Mobile business as a run rate which was very helpful. I was wondering if you could do the same for your Display business, particularly interested YouTube, and so if you could comment on pricing and volume trends at YouTube in the quarter, at least directionally, that would be helpful, and then I have a follow-up.

PATRICK PICHETTE: So as you know, we don't provide any guidance. We had this extraordinary moment this quarter in Mobile where we had a confluence of so many things going on and that we thought it was, on a one-time basis, again, appropriate to kind of provide number of users, the Android ecosystem that's going gangbusters and therefore, we thought appropriate to round it up with kind of a snapshot of where we stand. So for that reason right, and because of the competitive nature of the environment in which we are, we don't divulge typically these numbers and you shouldn't expect us to actually give you more information in the future on them, whether it be Display or Mobile or others.

In the case of YouTube it's the same thing. As Larry said, we're incredibly pleased about the growth of YouTube, whether it be the number of videos viewed a day, the revenue growth rates, the performance overall of the content, and the ad system within it, so all I could say is this is a really kind of well-growing property for us, in which we're really excited.

ANTHONY DICLEMENTE: Okay, thanks. And then just for Larry, I'm just wondering if you could comment on your broader media strategy. Unlike traditional cable providers, the Google platform isn't limited by geography, it's not limited by the contiguous networks or territories, so I just wonder, there's been some conversation in the marketplace about a multi-channel video offering in the US made to supplement your media product and so I was just wondering if you could talk a little bit about that, even just philosophically, that would be helpful.

LARRY PAGE: Yes, it's hard to talk about what we might do in the future again, but I think in general, I just think there's a lot of opportunity in providing better services for end-users around media, and you see that. There's tremendous growth in all these businesses that are doing that. And I think we're obviously in a good position to help users find the content and the media and so on that they're looking for. And we're in a great position to also help those companies and publishers and authors and content creators to find the right users, and get paid both through advertising and directly. And so I think that's just logical place for us to be, and a logical place where you'll see a lot of activity in general. Take the next question?

ANTHONY DICLEMENTE: Thank you.

OPERATOR: We'll go next to Jim Friedland with Cowen & Co.

JAMES FRIEDLAND, ANALYST, COWEN AND COMPANY: Thanks. 2 questions. First, you talked about shutting 20 products, and you've got further products in Q1 I believe, and is there any way you can give us sort of a percentage in terms of how much resource that opens up, is that sort of a 10% increase, or any kind of color you can give us there. And second, what level of Google Plus users do you need to see a material improvement in ROI and search, and really move the needle for the business there, and just maybe in terms of active users? Thanks.

LARRY PAGE: I think those are great questions, Jim, thank you. I think that I'm not prepared to give you specific numbers about projects we shut down or whatever, but I will tell you its been a pretty significant effort we've had to really streamline our business, and we've made, like I said, tough decisions about where we should be focusing, so that we really can generate amazing products and businesses, and those are not easy decisions. So I think there's significant resources involved in the kinds of things we're talking about, and it's also a fair amount of work also for us to just go through that process, but I'm excited about that increased focus for us.

I think as I mentioned on Google Plus, I think we're seeing tremendous growth which I'm very excited about. We're still very early. It's been out just slightly more than one quarter now and not even fully open until only for a very small part of that, so I think we're very early in that, but on the other hand, I encourage you to all try out Google Plus and sign up and flock to it and you will see data in Search about what other people are doing, and you'll see someone had plus-one something and so on, and I think those things can be very meaningful to you as a user. So I have no doubt that there will be a significant impact from that.

JAMES FRIEDLAND: Great. Thanks very much.

PATRICK PICHETTE: We have time for one more question so Jamie could you give us the last question, please?

OPERATOR: Thank you, sir. That final question comes from Colin Sebastian with RW Baird.

COLIN SEBASTIAN, ANALYST, ROBERT W. BAIRD & CO.: Great. Thanks very much for taking my questions. Just 2 brief ones, first on Chrome and your efforts their to expand penetration. Can you talk about the specific drivers of growing distribution, adoption, maybe how we might expect us to impact margins over time. And then secondly, the growth in the Google site revenues, I wonder if you could add a little bit of color there on the specific uptick, if that's an acceleration from display on YouTube as well as Mobile or is that the core Search-related? Thanks very much.

PATRICK PICHETTE: I'll take the latter, and then maybe Nikesh will cover the chrome. On the latter the answer is yes, yes, yes, and yes. So yes, YouTube, yes Mobile and yes, formats and that's why you see such an acceleration of our revenue and that's why we're so excited about it and maybe Nikesh, of you have comments on the Chrome and our penetration and how it's working?

NIKESH ARORA: I'd love to answer a question like that like yes, yes, yes, yes but unfortunately that's not how the question is phrased. As far as Chrome is concerned, as we have talked about in previous quarters, Chrome is very strategic for us, because we believe it is a phenomenal user experience and has user benefit. It just improves the user browsing experience so phenomenally that we believe it's important that chrome be distributed and shared with almost every user around the world, and a lot of our marketing efforts and distribution efforts have been focused around getting Chrome in the hands of our users. We are doing distribution, with partners, our partners encourage people to download Chrome.

We are doing distribution where we do direct advertising to consumers to get them to download Chrome with a clear user benefit of better browsing, better video watching and better security, so we are doing a lot of that. I think I'm not going to comment on the margin part but you have to understand a great consumer experience from Google as part of Chrome makes Google makes users use more Google services, so from that perspective, we're very happy with the distribution strategy we have in Chrome and we don't see any abatement of that strategy.

COLIN SEBASTIAN: Thanks very much.

LARRY PAGE: I want to thank everyone for all the time that you spend with us. We had a great quarter, very excited about our progress so far and I also want to thank all of our employees who have worked so hard to make these results that you all see, so thank you all very much.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Jamie, we'll let you close the call.

OPERATOR: Thank you, sir. That does conclude today's conference. We appreciate everyone's participation.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
goog : Google Inc.
   IN
i8395464 : Internet Search Engines | iint : Internet/Online Services
   NS
c151 : Earnings | c22 : New Products/Services | ntra : Transcript | c32 : Advertising | c15 : Performance | c31 : Marketing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | uk : United Kingdom | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020111027e7ad003xp
  


 HD
 Q2  2011 Google Inc Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
10,996 words
   PD
14 July 2011
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©011 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day and welcome everyone to the Google, Inc. second-quarter 2011 earnings conference call. This call is being recorded. At this time I would like to turn the call over to Jane Penner, Senior Manager Investor Relations. Please go ahead, ma'am.

   TD
JANE PENNER, SENIOR MANAGER IR, GOOGLE: Good afternoon everyone, and welcome to today's second-quarter 2011 earnings conference call. With us are Larry Page, Chief Executive Officer; Patrick Pichette, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Susan Wojcicki, Senior Vice President, Advertising; Nikesh Arora, Senior Vice President and Chief Business Officer.

First, Larry, Patrick, Nikesh and Susan will provide us with their thoughts on the quarter. Also, as you know, we now distribute our earnings release through our Investor Relations website located at investor.google.com. So please refer to our IR website for our earnings releases, as well as supplementary slides that accompany the call.

This call is also being webcast from investors.google.com. A replay of the call will be available on our website in a few hours.

Now let me quickly cover the Safe Harbor. Some of the statements that we make today may be considered forward-looking, including statements regarding Google's future investments, and our long-term growth and innovation, the expected performance of our business, and our expected level of capital expenditures.

These statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially. Please note that these forward-looking statements reflect our opinions only as of the date of this presentation, and we undertake no obligation to revise or publicly release the results of any revisions to these forward-looking statements in light of new information or future events.

Please refer to our SEC filings for a more detailed description of the risk factors that may affect our results.

Please note that certain financial measures that we use on this call, such as operating income and operating margin, are also expressed in a non-GAAP basis -- on a non-GAAP basis, and have been adjusted to exclude charges related to stock-based compensation.

We have also adjusted our net cash provided by operating activities to remove capital expenditures, which we refer to as free cash flow. Our GAAP results and reconciliations of non-GAAP to GAAP measures can be found in our earnings press release.

With that, I will now turn the call over to Larry.

LARRY PAGE, CEO, GOOGLE: Well, thank you. And good afternoon everyone, thanks for joining us today. It is really exciting to be on the call today and share directly with you the progress we have made in my first quarter as CEO.

As you have seen from our press release, we had a great quarter, with revenue up by 32% year on year and a new record for quarterly revenue at over $9 billion.

We have substantially increased our velocity and execution this quarter, which is a key goal of mine since taking over as CEO. That is why I created a new product-focused management structure with a clear leader responsible for each area.

The new management team is working together fabulously, and has already achieved a lot in just these three months. First of all I wanted to talk about Google+, which we launched a field trial invitation only.

Our goal with Google+ is to make sharing on the Web like sharing in real life, as well as to improve the overall Google experience. Circles lets you choose with precision who you're sharing with. Not surprisingly, this has been very well received, because in real life we share different things with different people.

Hangouts allows for serendipitous interactions, like in real life when you run into a few friends. It gives you seamless and fun multiuser video, and it is really amazing.

Last quarter we launched the +1 button in search results and ads, enabling users to recommend stuff they like and to have those recommendations show up in the search results of people they know. This quarter we released the +1 buttons to the entire Web. And many sites like Huffington Post, The Washington Post and Best Buy, have added +1 buttons.

Google+ is still in field trial with limited access as we scale the system. Users have to be invited and sign up for the profile in order to use it. However, the growth on Google+ has been great, and I'm excited to release some new metrics for you today.

Over 10 million people have joined Google+. That is a great achievement for the team. There is also a ton of activity. We are seeing over 1 billion items shared and received in a single day.

Our +1 button is already all over the Web. It is being served 2.3 billion times a day. So while we still have a lot of work still to do, we are really excited about our progress with Google+.

Google+ is also a great example of another focus of mine, beautiful products that are simple and intuitive to use, and actually was one of the first products to contain our new visual redesign. We also launched our beautiful, consistent and simpler design on our homepage, Gmail and Calendar, with many more products soon to come.

Greater focus has also been another big feature for me this quarter; more wood behind fewer arrows. Last month we announced that we would the closing Google Health and Google PowerMeter. We have also done substantial internal work, simplifying and streamlining our product lines.

While much of that work has not yet become visible externally, I am very happy with our progress here. Focus and prioritization are crucial, given our amazing opportunities. Indeed, I see more opportunities for Google today than ever before, because, believe it or not, we are still in the very early stages of what we want to do.

Even in search, which we have been working on for 12 years, there has never been more important changes to make. For example, this quarter we launched a pilot that shows an author's name and picture in search results, making it easier for users to find things from authors they trust.

Of course, when we started doing search people thought we were crazy. They said there is no money to be made in search over and above a bit of banner advertising. Most new Internet businesses have had that same criticism.

Fast-forward to today. It feels like we are watching the same movie again in slow motion. We have tremendous new businesses being viewed as crazy. Android -- and actually have a new metric to report in Android of 550,000 phones activated a day. That is a huge number, even by Google's standards.

Chrome is the fastest growing browser. We have over 160 million users. Now people rightly ask, how will we monetize these businesses? Of course, I understand the need to balance the short-term with the longer-term needs, because our revenues and growth serve as the engine that funds our innovation. But our emerging high usage products can generate huge new businesses for Google in the long run, just like search. And we have tons of experience monetizing successful products over time.

Well-run technology businesses with tremendous consumer usage make a lot of money over the long term. Now I think about our products in three separate categories. First, there is search and our ads products, the core driver of revenue for the Company. Nikesh and Susan are going to talk more about ads later in the call.

Next, we have products that are employing high consumer success -- YouTube, Android and Chrome. We are investing in these in order to optimize their long-term success.

Then we have our new products -- Google+ and Commerce and Local. We are investing in them to drive innovation and adoption. Overall, we are focused on long-term, absolute profit and growth, as we have always been. And I will continue the tight financial management we have had in the last two years, even as we are making significant investments in our future.

I would like to finish on our people. Great companies are no greater than the efforts and ingenuity of their people. We are continuing to hire the best. Keeping them happy and well-rewarded is crucial to our future. Many of you will be interested in hiring, whether we hired a few hundred more or less than you expected this quarter. But we will optimize headcount for the long term and the opportunities we see.

I'm happy with the investments we have made in people, though we are probably even a little ahead of where we need to be with headcount growth at the edge of what is manageable now. Easy to focus on things that we do that are speculative, e.g., driverless cars. But we spend the vast majority of our resources on the core products.

We may have a few small speculative projects happening at any given time, but we are very careful stewards of shareholder money. We are not betting the farm on this stuff.

All of us at Google want to create services that people in the world use twice a day, just like a toothbrush. We strive to make those services beautiful, simple and easy to use. That way we can provide huge benefit to the world.

We have made a good start, but we are only at 1% of what is possible. Google is just getting started, and that is why I am here working hard to lead the Company into the next level.

Thank you. And, again, we had a great quarter. Now over to Patrick for the financial results.

PATRICK PICHETTE, SVP, CFO, GOOGLE: Thank you, Larry. Thank you, everybody. Thanks for joining us. And Larry is going to stay with us for the Q&A, so I just wanted to make sure that everybody knows he's not going anywhere.

Okay, so let's go through the number. We have, obviously, an excellent quarter, with 32% year-over-year revenue growth in Q2. And it clearly demonstrated the continuing power of Google's product innovation, but also the relentless momentum of the digital economy.

The strength continues to be driven by our core desktop search ads, but also increasingly by new emerging areas, just like the mobile display, including YouTube and enterprise, that we regularly talk about.

So let's turn to the specifics of our performance in the quarter. Gross revenue grew 32% year-over-year, and we have reached $9 billion in revenue, 5% quarter-over-quarter growth as well. Note that while currency fluctuation boosted our revenue somewhat, even in constant FX terms our growth rates remain strong, particularly in what tends to be a seasonally slower quarter.

Google website revenue was up 39% year-over-year to $6.2 billion, and 6% quarter-over-quarter, with strength across most major geographies and verticals. Google Network revenue was also up 20% year-over-year to $2.5 billion, 2% quarter-over-quarter.

Network revenue was again negatively impacted by the search quality improvements made during the latter part of Q1, as you'll remember. And note that Q2 reflects a full quarter of this impact.

This impact is to be expected in the short term, given that it is now different publishers that are receiving traffic and may not have yet optimized their sites for our advertising programs.

Other revenue was also up 20% year-over-year to $310 million, and 15% quarter-over-quarter. Our global aggregate paid click growth was strong, up 18% and down 2% quarter-over-quarter.

Our UI changes to search ads, such as Visurl, drove year-over-year click growth in Q2, along with the ongoing and accelerating shift from off-line to online. The slight decline quarter-over-quarter is just typically consistent with our summer seasonality.

Aggregate cost per click growth was also very healthy, up 12% year-over-year and up 6% quarter-over-quarter. Note that FX also had a positive impact on CPC. And remember too that this is an aggregate number that includes both google.com and our AdSense properties.

Turning to our geographic performance, the US and rest of world are growing both at very good pace, and our results reflect that. While the UK still continues to lag slightly in the global recovery, year-over-year and quarter-over-quarter growth in Q2 continues to show signs of acceleration in the UK as well.

So revenue from the US was up 26% year-over-year to $4.2 billion. And in our earning slides, which you can find on our Investor Relations website, you will see that we have broken down our revenue by US, UK and rest of world to show the impact of FX and the benefits of our hedging program. So please refer to those slides for the exact calculations.

Non-US revenue accounted for 54% of our total revenue or $4.9 billion, up 38% year-over-year, which includes only $4 million of benefits from hedging programs compared to last year where we had $79 million of benefits for Q2.

Year-over-year growth in fixed FX would have been 29% versus the 38% I just mentioned. Japan's future revenue was, again, negatively impacted by the aftermath of the disaster there, but there again we see signs of faster recovery, faster than expected at first.

The UK was up 27% year-over-year to $976 million. And year-over-year growth in fixed FX would still have been a healthy 19% for the UK.

Let me turn to expenses. Traffic acquisition costs were $2.1 billion or 24.2% of total advertising revenue. Our other cost of revenue was $1.1 billion, including stock-based compensation of $51 million. And finally, our operating expenses, which excludes stock-based compensation, totaled $2.6 billion. The stock-based compensation totaled $384 million in Q2.

The increase in year-over-year in OpEx was primarily due to payroll, increased advertising and promotional spend, and also professional services. So as a result, our non-GAAP operating profit was $3.3 billion in Q2, which exclude the stock-based compensation, resulting in a non-GAAP operating margin of 36.7%.

Headcount was up approximately 2,450 versus Q1, ending the quarter with 28,768 full-time employees. When we exclude ITA adds of roughly 450, the net headcount growth is roughly similar to Q1.

Our effective tax rate was 19% in Q2. And the effective tax rate is down due to the mix of earnings between domestic and international subsidiaries, as well as our hedges.

Let me turn now to cash management. In other income and expense our results were $204 million for Q2. A solid portfolio management performance from our team, which like every quarter, is offset by the impact of our hedging expenses associated with FAS 133, which it in itself was also significantly lower in Q2, gave us these great results. For more detail on OI&E, again, please refer to the slides that accompany this call on our IR websites.

Operating cash flow, very strong, $3.5 billion for Q2. CapEx for the quarter was $917 million versus last quarter of $890 million. So pretty much in line.

The majority of our CapEx spend in Q2 was related to facilities expenses and production equipment. And regarding specifically the facility expenses, like last quarter we just happen to have a great opportunity in Q2 to purchase buildings in Dublin and in Mountain View, and we took that opportunity.

As a reminder, we will continue to make significant CapEx investments, and these have shown to be lumpy from quarter to quarter, depending on when we are able to actually make these investments. So, overall, we can be nothing but pleased with our free cash flow, which was $2.6 billion for Q2.

As Larry mentioned earlier, we continued to deliver growth with a disciplined agenda. This means investing and making sure that our resources deployed wisely with focus and a balance between that short and long term that Larry covered.

So with those financial highlights covered, I am going to turn it over to Nikesh, who actually cover now our sales performance in the quarter. Here you go, Nikesh.

NIKESH ARORA, SVP, CHIEF BUSINESS OFFICER, GOOGLE: Thank you, Patrick. I am going to give you a quick update on our business activities, which spans sales, partnership, marketing and customer service around the world in support of our product and revenue.

Let me start by focusing on the first priority for our sales team, the need to continue to drive our revenue growth in core and new businesses. This quarter we continued to drive revenues in our core areas like search, as well as new areas like display, mobile and enterprise.

Core search and desktop has done really well this quarter, with google.com accelerating, and our large advertisers continuing to spend more as they see more value in search.

We have also been able to drive tremendous focus on small advertisers around the world, with programs like GXP, which I will talk about slightly later.

Totally, however, our sales teams are getting better at tailoring integrated solutions for our clients using the full array of our advertising products. These solutions create greater opportunities to improve our customer's marketing ROI.

Clients have used search to focus their targeting capabilities, such as audience and topic targeting, to help improve the marketing effectiveness. Some of our most successful search clients include people like GM and [Egitear].

On the other hand, in addition to our core desktop search business, we continue to be very excited about our investments in display and mobile. Let me first focus on display.

We have seen continued healthy growth in our display product space across all fronts -- advertiser, publisher and technology solutions. 98 of the top Ad Age 100 advertisers have bought display across YouTube and the Google Display Network this quarter.

Customers continue to use our DoubleClick products, and we are happy with the increased use of the DoubleClick Ad Exchange and invites media for [AdLine]. With our announcements to acquire AdMeld, we hope to deliver even better solutions to our publishers and buyers.

Continuing on display on YouTube where we have over 3 billion daily views, we have had great success bringing popular content to our users, further increasing audience engagements. Take, for example, our April broadcast of the royal wedding, which generated 100 million YouTube views.

Our range of platform and content means that advertisers are beginning to use them for superior branding solutions. A great example of our branding products in action was T-Mobile's launch of the Samsung S4G on YouTube. In this campaign T-Mobile took over YouTube running ads on the home page, watch page, mobiles. That particular campaign helped them reach 46 million unique users.

Continuing to talk about revenues, our mobile business continues to be another area of robust growth. The number which Larry has shared of 550,000 Androids, that and the success of smartphones in general mobility devices around the world, is acting as an accelerator to our mobile advertising efforts.

Let me just take one quick example. One format, which was launched by Susan's team, called Click-to-Call, or Click-to-Share, has been particularly successful. (inaudible) is a great use case of these formats. They integrated our ad mall product into a very large campaign to launch a new product. They used a banner to drive traffic to a campaign mobile site and achieved unprecedented results, with almost 700,000 unique visitors accessing their content.

Another leg of our revenues is the Enterprise business. We have seen great results in Enterprise as well. In particular, apps for business continues to grow as organizations move to the cloud. We have had key wins with InterContinental Hotels, [Demova], the state of Wyoming. In addition to that some small simple changes in our product site have allowed us to tremendously accelerate Google Apps for small businesses.

Looking at our revenues from a slightly different perspective, geographies and customer segments, we have seen strong growth in regions and across customers of all sizes. First, let's take a look at geographies. We maintained our strength in large, mature countries, while we accelerated in emerging ones.

In our large, mature countries even though some are facing economic challenges, the secular trend of online advertising and the effectiveness of the teams to continue to drive healthy revenue growth is showing great results.

Several countries are worth noting, as Patrick mentioned. The UK has accelerated this quarter with strong growth by small advertisers. In Japan we have seen recovery driven primarily by display and mobile spending by large advertisers.

Our focused execution in Canada and Spain has led to these markets beginning to show recovery. Finally, we saw tremendous growth in emerging countries, especially Brazil and Russia, where our display products are getting strong adoption from advertisers.

Across each country we focused on improving the product knowledge and selling capability of our salesforce. Our front-line teams can now sell search, display and mobile to the needs of our customers, which is a great trend we are seeing of integrated products selling across multiple mobile ad formats.

As a result, we are becoming better advisors to the digital space for our large advertisers. For example, Nike, Sony Ericsson, Telefonica, all of them partnered with us to create integrated solutions around their sponsorship of [Corporate] America.

Outside of revenue, one key area of responsibility is marketing. We continue to use marketing as a strategic lever. We use marketing to booster our customer acquisitions, as well as usage of our key consumer products.

I am very proud of my team's work on Get Businesses Online, GXP, as I mentioned. In Q2 we successfully launched campaigns in Brazil, Canada, Australia, Thailand. The objective is to try and bring another 1 million small medium businesses across 20 countries online for the first time. As you know, more advertisers get more queries, have more ad serves against it, resulting in a more robust option for us.

In addition, we also saw strong results from our own advertising campaigns, including the most recent one around Google Chrome -- The Web is What You Make of It. I'm sure many of you might have seen Justin Bieber or Lady Gaga in these campaigns. These campaigns have shown tremendous effectiveness and have helped convince more users to switch to the Chrome browser.

Last, but not least, I want to spend a quick minute on talking about something we are more and more passionate about, which is continuing to drive better customer satisfaction on an advertising front. We continue to improve service and support across all customer segments.

We have started providing a large set of advertisers proactive phone support and on-boarding help, which include signing up for campaign building, signing up and getting assistance, as well as free (inaudible) support after they become a customer of ours. As a result of these initiatives and others, spending by our small businesses continue to accelerate.

Overall, as Patrick and Larry mentioned, Q2 was a great quarter. I'm very proud of the work of our teams across the world in various countries who have done tremendous amount of effort to serve our customers, partners and users.

Now I'm going to turn over to my business partner, Susan, who is going to talk about all the positive impact that her products have had this quarter.

SUSAN WOJCICKI, SVP, ADVERTISING, GOOGLE: Thanks, Nikesh. Larry started the call by talking about a few of the quarter's product highlights, and I would like to cover some more of them.

So let me begin with search. We are always looking for new ways to help our users find answers to their questions. This quarter we brought two of the most popular mobile search innovations to the desktop, voice search and search by image.

Voice search traffic for mobile devices is up 6 times in the past year. So we thought this would be a useful feature for our desktop users as well. It is especially useful for searches that you know how to say, but not how to spell. Like Bolognese sauce or Schenectady, New York, neither of which I could easily spell.

With Search by Image you can drop pictures of places, art or even mysterious creatures like the Loch Ness monster right into the Google search box, and Google can identify it and tell you about those pictures.

In addition to these changes, we released about 100 other quality improvements to the search algorithm. More and more people are searching and using apps for mobile phones, where Android has had terrific momentum. There are now 135 million Android devices that have been activated in total, up from 100 million just two months ago. There are also now over 400 different Android devices available globally.

The Android market is also picking up momentum. It has over 250,000 different apps. And users have downloaded apps over 6 billion times, which is double the downloads from just a few months ago.

We are expanding beyond apps too. This week we started renting movies and selling books on phones from Android Market, and earlier in Q2 we launched Music Beta, which lets users upload their personal music collections and playlists to the cloud. All of this media, movies, music, books and apps are instantly available on their Android devices, no cable required.

Smartphones are also becoming key to the shopping experience. Making shopping mobile and local is a vision behind Google Wallet and Google Offers. We announced the Google Wallet mobile app in May in partnership with Citi, MasterCard, Sprint and First Data, and we are now testing it in field trials. And as of this week, Google Offers are available in San Francisco, Oakland, New York and Portland.

So now onto ads, which is the product area that I manage. On the [search outside] we had a great quarter for quality, with over 50 ads quality improvements, and a big upgrade to the ads relevancy system.

We launched the latest in a series of small tweaks for our search ad format. This format, this quarter we added the landing URL to the headline so that users know where a click will take them. This may seem like a small thing, but we launched several of these small tweaks over the past year, and cumulatively they have had a big impact.

There were also a lot of quality improvements across our Display Network, over 20 launches, making it one of our strongest quarters from a quality perspective.

In general, display advertising is moving to a scientific model, based on technologies like real-time bidding. With this technology when you land on a webpage, advertisers decide what they want to pay for the ad space and an auction is held, and the best ad is matched with the publisher's ad space. The product it is a lot more efficient. It provides better performance to both advertisers and publishers, and more relevant ads for users. Real-time bidding is an important technology shift that we are investing heavily in.

Invite Media, which is the buying platform for advertisers and agencies that we bought last year, has doubled its client list in the last year, with over 5 times growth outside of the US.

Mobile display is starting to take off too, with traffic on the AdMob network up more than 3.5 times in the past year. More and more of that traffic is coming from tablets, so we launched a new set of formats designed specifically for tablets. These formats are Web-based. They use HTML, and brand advertisers don't need to make different versions of their ads for different models.

Nikesh also mentioned our great momentum with YouTube, where we are getting strong performance from YouTube skippable ads. Because users can choose to skip these in-stream ads, the people who choose to watch them are much more engaged.

More and more advertisers are choosing to make their ads skippable. And now over one-third of in-stream ads on YouTube are in a skippable format, which is a pretty remarkable fact, given that we launched this format in December.

Finally, I'd like to update our progress on Chrome. Larry mentioned how we passed 160 million users, which is more than double year-on-year. This quarter our partners Samsung and Acer started shipping Chromebooks in seven countries. Chromebooks are designed to be fast, to just work, and to get better over time thanks to our automatic updates. And they are now available through Amazon and Best Buy.

Chromebooks are also available to schools and businesses via a subscription model. The subscription includes Chromebooks, of course, administration, warranty, and support starting at $20 a month.

So, overall, it was a very busy quarter for us. But maybe the coolest thing we did was the Les Paul doodle we ran last month. It was a guitar you could actually play, and users recorded over 40 million songs while it was up. That is about five years of music.

I am looking forward to hearing your questions and comments, and for now back to Patrick.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thank you, Susan. So, Jamie, our operator is going to help us through this. Jamie, you can just set up the call for a Q&A. And, as I said, we will have Susan, Nikesh, Larry and myself to answer any questions you may have.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Spencer Wang, Credit Suisse.

SPENCER WANG, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Two quick questions, if I could. First, for Patrick or perhaps Nikesh, international revenue growth, as you mentioned, was really strong. I was wondering if you could just provide a little bit more color on perhaps what is driving that? If you could give us a sense of how much of that is core search versus some of the newer initiatives like mobile, YouTube and display?

Then the second question is for Larry. I was wondering if you could just talk a little bit, Larry, about the patent strategy. Our understanding is you guys have about 650 patents. So just given the Oracle situation, I was wondering if you could talk about the patent strategy to ensure that you guys can continue to innovate going forward? Thanks.

PATRICK PICHETTE: So I will let Nikesh answer the first part of the question, and then Larry will talk about the patent issues.

NIKESH ARORA: As I mentioned in my prepared remarks, that we have seen tremendous growth across pretty much all product areas. So the growth you are seeing international is driven by mobile, by display, by search.

Clearly, international is not one market. There are many different countries, so we have seen different effects in different markets. Places like Japan, as I said, have been driven more by display and mobile. Various parts of Asia are just getting up the curve for us on display and are strong contributors in mobile.

Having said that, Russia has been very strong for us. Brazil has been very strong for us. Brazil on the back of mobile and display as well, and as well as core search.

So if you think about it, what we are seeing, we are seeing more and more pickup of display and mobile, because we have established sales teams now pretty much on almost every major market around the world to help sell display. And the mobile take-up based on take-up of smartpoints phones and Android, etc., is helping that trend as well.

In addition to that, a lot of effort has gone into bringing small business online, and that increases the number of advertisers in many international markets. As we get more advertisers in our international markets, it has a very positive impact on our RPMs in those markets, so we are seeing that effect as well.

LARRY PAGE: Thank you for your question on Android and patents and so on. Obviously, we have a number of intellectual property in progress too, not just already issued.

I would also just say Android is really on a tear. I mentioned there are over 550,000 new Android daily activations previously. And there is over 400 such devices, 39 OEMs, 231 carriers and 123 countries, and over 78 Open Handset Alliance partners. And that velocity is only increasing.

Now, of course, despite the efforts of some of our competitors there hasn't been any slowdown in any of this. And partners and developers are continuing to expand the Android ecosystem. I should say, of course, we are really committed to Android, and continue to support that platform and ecosystem, and do it in a cost effective manner.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thanks, Larry. Let's go to the next question. And thanks, Spencer, for your question.

OPERATOR: Mark Mahaney, Citi.

MARK MAHANEY, ANALYST, CITI: Two questions, Larry. Could you talk about what you have maybe put in to improve the velocity of decision-making? And as you step back and think about the management improvements you could see over the next year or two, how significant do you think -- how much better, how much more efficiently do think Google could be run than what we have seen maybe over the last two or three years?

Then, Susan, real quickly, social search signals, how important do you think they are now? How key are they? How much of that is Google+ is the strategy for trying to make the core search results more relevant? Thanks.

LARRY PAGE: Thanks, this is Larry. Sorry about that. I am super excited about the changes we have made. I think as companies scale, we always change how we are running the Company over time. So I think we have much more of a product-focused structure now, which I am very excited about and talked about it.

I think that maintaining and improving our velocity and execution is really a noble goal for us, and it requires always a lot of work in companies. And I think that is a super important direction for us, and I'm really excited about it.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Susan, on social.

SUSAN WOJCICKI: So I think the first thing I would say about social is that we're very early right now. And really our focus with Google+ will be to focus on making sure that we have a wonderful consumer and user experience.

From a targeting perspective, there are a number of signals that we use right now. Obviously, keyword on search, contextual interest-based advertising, demographics. So social and social signals over time can be an important part of that, but it would be one of multiple ways that we actually do targeting.

When we did rollout Google+, we do have pluses on all the ads, just as we do on search results. So if a user does click on it and someone on their circle has -- actually does a query and triggers that, then there will be social annotations, which will be useful information for the user to see that their friend have +1 that ad.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thank you Susan. Thank you Larry.

OPERATOR: Ben Schachter, Macquarie.

BEN SCHACHTER, ANALYST, MACQUARIE: Congratulations on the execution and the launch of Google+. Larry, at a high level, what, if any, are some of the key differences in how you think about managing specifically the economic model of the Company today versus when Eric was CEO, specifically, any changes to target margins, revenue growth targets, etc.?

Then, separately, on mobile search specifically, it has clearly been successful in terms of search share. But when we are trying to figure out the overall impact to net revenue and kind of balancing out some of the positives like incremental searches and share gains and higher click-through rates, but also having the headwinds of tax payments for partners and lower CPCs, how should we think about the overall net impact of mobile to the business? Thanks.

PATRICK PICHETTE: So why don't I take the second part of that question, and then Larry can talk about the economic model versus -- in the context of what you said.

Look, for mobile search you have to go back and focus on what we focus on -- build -- businesses that are going to be $1 billion businesses, and that actually contribute significant operating dollar margin. These are businesses that scale to a humongous scale as they grow.

So for us, that is the focus that we have. And the second piece in the specifics of mobile is we really see mobile a bit like search was in 2001, 2002, 2003. All these formats are so new that you know that there is so much more room for optimization on top of it.

It is, in fact, a bit of a mistake to say, okay, today whatever we have is a good proxy for what the future will look like. And that is why we are excited about it, and that is why it we focus so much on mobile.

Now for the economic model and how we run the Company, maybe, Larry, your thoughts on that.

LARRY PAGE: Absolutely, thanks for the question. I think, certainly, Eric is a great partner and leader for me and for Google for the last 10 years and continues to play a big part in the Company. So I don't think there is -- like we said before, there is no major changes in what we are doing.

I will reiterate maybe a little bit -- add a little detail to what I already said. I think about really in our products in three separate categories. And first there is search in our ads business, which is the core driver revenue for the Company. We really invest in that, we work hard on it.

Next, we have businesses that are enjoying really high consumer success, for example, YouTube, Android and Chrome. And we invest in those in order to optimize really their long-term success. And we have some new businesses -- Google+, Commerce and Local -- that we are really excited about and are pretty early stage, and those things we invest in as well.

We don't do things that we don't think will generate really big returns over time. So we are optimizing for our long-term economic success. But we do have these very different buckets of things that we work on.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thanks for your answer, Larry. Thanks for your question, Ben. Jamie, let's go to the next question, please.

OPERATOR: Ross Sandler, RBC.

ROSS SANDLER, ANALYST, RBC: Just two questions. First, on Google+ and then second on Google Offers. So, on Plus, we haven't seen any real integration -- I know it is only a couple weeks old -- but with Google's core competencies around search and other things that you have been very successful at in the past. So can you talk about plans on integrating some of Google's core strengths into Google+ to further, I guess, differentiate the product from other services that are out there?

And then on Google Offers can you just talk about your overall strategy in terms of rolling out offers? You are in four cities today. How fast do you think you're going to accelerate into these newer cities? And is international territories also on the roadmap in the near term for Offers? Thanks.

LARRY PAGE: Thanks for your question. I will answer the first part. It is Larry. Google+ actually has a lot of interesting product integration. The black Google bar that you see is an entry point and notification point for Plus across basically all of our properties. And we are really excited about that, and think it is a big deal.

[I should also say] and there are many things that you would do with Plus and with +1 that affect what you would see in search results. Like I mentioned, if +1 something your friends will see it in search. So, absolutely, I hope I was clear that was our strategy, but we are very focused on improving all of Google, improving the sharing and identity across all of Google.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Maybe Nikesh can give a comment on the rollout for the Google Offers.

NIKESH ARORA: Thanks, Patrick. We won't give out details on how we rollout our offers strategy. I think Susan said it very well in our overall strategy. Because Offers for us is not just an isolated event, it is a combined sort of a Commerce offering, which includes their mobile phone and other things we talked about.

We are very happy with the rollout we have had in the one city where we have been for a while, which is Portland, and we just rolled out two more cities earlier this week.

So from that perspective you can expect us to rollout other cities, but we are going to be testing and looking at the model to see what is working, what is not working, because we want to build the next version of how we rollout an Offers product. So stay tuned.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thanks for your question, Ross. Jamie, our next question please.

OPERATOR: Brian Pitz, UBS.

BRIAN PITZ, ANALYST, UBS: Two quick questions. As we note the proliferation of the newer, richer ad formats like product image ads that we are seeing more and more on your side, can you help us better understand the impact on paid click growth specifically?

Then, separately, can you also give us a little more color on some of the Panda or quality changes you are doing on the network? Any commentary on how much impact to growth of AdSense that had this quarter? And how long should we expect to see more than expected impact from continued quality changes? Thanks.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Why don't I let, actually, Susan tackle those questions. Susan.

SUSAN WOJCICKI: On the richer ad formats, we see a few important opportunities for us. And what we feel about them is that gives us the opportunity to make those ads better for the users. And as we can create better experiences for our users, they are more likely to have the information that a user wants, and so what we would hope to see is a click-through increase over time, and hopefully, for the advertiser on the backend, a better conversion.

In terms of click growth, and what is actually driving the click growth that we see, it is a number of factors. One of them is always going to be query growth that we have. A second thing would have to -- would be on improvements that we have to our backend quality models. So the better the quality model is, the more likely we are to actually match the right advertisement to the right user.

We had a number of good -- as I mentioned, not just good, we had great ads quality launches this quarter. And a number of ad formats that made the ads more readable, and by making them more readable the users are more likely to click on them, and that turns into click growth.

Then on the last question that you had, which was Panda, Panda was a change made by the search team with the goal of improving overall search experience. There was, as we talked about last time, some negative effects from the AdSense partners. However, Panda does -- or any search quality that we make does have a change of ranking, which means that there different sites that wind up getting traffic. And those sites may adjust their monetization strategies over time, and so it may just take some time for that to actually balance out.

And, also, in terms of the last question, we don't really comment about future changes that we are going to make, but we are always thinking about the right way to continue to improve the search results for our users.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Panda is again -- once again, a great example of putting the user first ends up benefiting everybody in the end -- the publishers, the advertisers and the users. Thanks for your question, Brian. Let's go to our next question, please.

OPERATOR: Justin Post, Bank of AmericaMerrill Lynch.

JUSTIN POST, ANALYST, BANK OF AMERICA MERRILL LYNCH: A couple of questions. Larry, thanks for joining the call. While we have you, I am just going to ask a question I get all the time. How focused is senior management on the stock, either as an employee retention tool or a measure of management's performance over say a 3- to 5-year period?

Then, secondly, if I could just ask about the local opportunity. It looks a lot of launches happening for Google. Do you see it as a different ad market than your current search ad market? And how might your model be different than some of the larger players in that market currently? Thank you.

LARRY PAGE: Justin, thank you very much for your question. This is Larry. I think -- well, we have a lot of stuff to do here at Google and, unfortunately, one of the things we don't get to decide is our stock price. So you all are in charge of that.

I think we are -- and so we really focus on our long-term success as a business. And the kind of things I mentioned already are absolute overall profitability over the long term and our revenue growth. So we tend to focus much more on that with a much more long-term view than we do on our stock price.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Susan, views on the difference and the similarities between the local and our traditional ads market.

SUSAN WOJCICKI: Local can be thought about two different ways. Local can be the large retailers who have many different points of presence. So, for example, Starbucks or Pizza Hut or any retailer, which is a large holding company or one large retailer, but then has many different local points of presence. And then there is a separate bucket, which are the small, Joe's Coffee Shop example.

Both of them need different things from a product perspective in order to be able to advertise more broadly. We are working in both buckets to solve and make them advertisers on AdWords with solutions that will work for them.

The large ones need functionality of how do I run a campaign in all of these different locations with different keywords, different pricing? And so we are working to enable location in our AdWords campaigns when you are managing a large account to make that much easier.

The Joe's Coffee Shop example, what we are working on is enabling signing up for AdWords to be a much easier experience. So we actually have a product that we release this quarter called Google Boost. And Boost product is a one-page, 5-minute sign up for advertisers. It is very easy to sign up. We haven't marketed it a lot right now. But we have seen good success with advertisers, and we're hoping to make that more known to our advertisers.

PATRICK PICHETTE: The last piece in the puzzle is obviously, Susan, mobile, which is completely integrated from an ads perspective and targeting as well.

SUSAN WOJCICKI: Yes. So the other thing too is we would like to make all of our products be accessible from a mobile perspective. Click-to-call would be an example. Click-to-call is really nice so that if someone, for example, is local, walking down the street, they can actually call. But it is also really nice from the small retailer perspective, because they can understand that they're getting a call and they're getting a lead, which for them would be much more tangible than actually a click to their page. So we are investing very heavily in that in terms of click-to-call technology and the good tracking for the local advertisers.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thank you. And thanks Justin for your questions. Let's go to our next question please.

OPERATOR: Jeetil Patel, Deutsche Bank Securities.

JEETIL PATEL, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK SECURITIES: Two questions. I guess, first of all, you've got obviously quite a few products and applications that have had success over the years kind of that are out there, obviously, search, Gmail, Chrome, Android, etc.

I guess as you think about next generation of consumer relationship and stickiness, how do you think about like integrating a lot of these core assets together in terms of building a consumer relationship, which moves seamlessly from all these different solutions and formats out there as well as devices?

Then, second, maybe around Google+, obviously it has been two weeks now, but maybe can you talk about the overall trend in terms of 10 million users? How does that compare against maybe the early days of how Android or Chrome or maybe even search or mail ramped? What kind of trajectory, what kind of trend schedule does it look like right now if you were to pinpoint it against another product in the business?

LARRY PAGE: Thanks very much for the questions. Those are good questions. We are -- on the integration points, you know, we obviously have a lot of different products, so we do different things for different people. And one effort that I mention I have been really excited about is this visual redesign. I also mentioned the bar that goes across -- the black bar that goes across the Google+ that gives you notification and sharing and so on.

We are definitely working hard to integrate our products better to make the user experience simpler, intuitive and beautiful and consistent. I'm really excited about our progress just in one quarter on that. And I think you will -- we are certainly working hard on that and expect to continue to over time.

On the Plus growth question, we have been very, very excited about the growth we have seen and the engagement we have seen with the 1 -- over 1 billion items shared and received in a single day. I think that for us there is a lot of barriers to use Plus right now. One thing, you have to be invited and so on, and it is still in field trial.

So I think, given all that, we are just extremely excited about that, but it is very early days. It has less than two weeks since we released it into field trial.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thanks for those insights, Larry. Thanks for your question. Jamie, let's go to the next question, please.

OPERATOR: Jason Maynard, Wells Fargo.

JASON MAYNARD, ANALYST, WELLS FARGO: I have a couple of questions. First, on Local, you've got a lot of interesting services and capabilities, but there is still fairly disparate, and in some instances there's some overlapping features. I am just curious from an end-user perspective, how are you thinking about bringing together your various local Commerce products?

Then, maybe to follow up on the Google+ question, since it is so early, what are your longer-term goals for Plus? Measured by either users or number of items shared, how are you thinking this over, say, a two-year timeframe? Thank you.

LARRY PAGE: Maybe, I will take the first question -- the second question first, on the Plus, how would we think about success of it.

I think we are really -- obviously, like I said, we want people to make products that everybody uses twice a day like their toothbrush. And we would certainly think about Plus that way, and also, just generally having really great sharing experience and identity experience across Google and all of its products.

So that is how we think about Plus there. I think it is pretty straightforward.

On the first question, local integration, Patrick, do you want to take that (multiple speakers)?

PATRICK PICHETTE: Let me suggest that what has been really cool about Local for us, in addition to what Susan mentioned a few minutes ago is, you have to think of it as we are in fact assembling all the pieces of the puzzle. Local is actually a quite complex experience, but when you have maps, you have mobile, you have wallet, you have all the ad serving you basically have the pieces of the puzzle to succeed.

It is not as much what was yesterday's tool that we have, and how do we evolve only yesterday's tools. It is about taking those pieces of the puzzle and really creating truly innovative services. And that is how we have to think about Local. And that is why it is not obvious. But if you look at the arsenal we are building, it is actually quite formidable. So that is why we are excited about it.

Thanks, Jason, for your question. Let's go to the next question.

OPERATOR: Doug Anmuth, JPMorgan.

DOUG ANMUTH, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Thanks for taking the question. I wanted to ask two things. First, Patrick, can you give us some color on the mix of headcount additions? And, in particular, if you look at R&D, it looks like it was flat sequentially. But yet you added more than 2,000 people during the quarter, so I'm hoping you can provide some color there.

Then, secondly, can you give us some context just in terms of how you think about the display business and whether you need more O&O inventory? Thanks.

PATRICK PICHETTE: I will answer the first one, and then I will let Susan answer the second. Listen, on headcount, again, as we said on the call, roughly we have ITA for 450, so roughly about 2,000 for the quarter. And Larry commented on that.

There is still a huge amount of engineers in that. It just happens that R&D is actually in every line item. So you will find in us, but you will find in many other areas of our P&L.

And so you should not worry. We have a complete focus to make sure that we actually have -- you know, a majority of our hiring that is focused on engineering, which is really the core of the business. Then we continue to -- then you have the mix of sales and then just general overhead. But it is really engineering and sales that have been the focus in that sequence.

For display, I will let Susan talk about it.

LARRY PAGE: I will just add too on the headcount question, none of the focus there has changed substantially from our past. Go ahead, Susan.

SUSAN WOJCICKI: On display, our biggest O&O property is obviously YouTube. And given the numbers that we saw, we have seen tremendous growth there and a huge opportunity to monetize video as more users come online and more content winds up being uploaded on YouTube.

But the strategy in our display strategy overall is not -- it is dependent not just on O&O, it also has many other components, the first of being -- to be a platform to enable advertisers and publishers to much more easily buy and sell display advertising.

And then, second, to enable all of the sites out there, which there are of course many, many, many millions -- hundreds of millions of them for them to be able to monetize and sell display advertising, and for us to be able to help them as part of that process, and via our network where we have a lot of different targeting techniques to try to serve the right ad to those users.

So, really, our strategy is part O&O with our sites like YouTube, but then also to continue to build a great network and platform products so that advertisers and publishers across the industry can serve display advertising.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thanks for your question. Let's go to the next question.

OPERATOR: Anthony Diclemente, Barclays Capital.

ANTHONY DICLEMENTE, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: I have one for Patrick and one for Larry. Patrick, if we just isolate the 6% sequential growth in cost per click versus last quarter, I wonder if you could just help us understand the driver of that acceleration? And moving forward should we expect that to continue or moderate given that as mobile queries start to take up more of the query mix?

And then a question for Larry. It would appear that in social media that switching costs for users are high -- perhaps years of photos on a social network platform. As you look at Google+ and the growth there what are the most compelling offsets to the switching cost do you think, or do you perhaps see a future where folks can simultaneously be a part of multiple social networking platforms? Thanks for the question.

PATRICK PICHETTE: So why do I let Susan actually give you a bit of color on our CPC and evolution, and then Larry will take on the latter -- the social one.

SUSAN WOJCICKI: The drivers of CPC, there are a few of them. One of them this quarter was FX certainly. But we have been really focused on our ads quality improvement, and how do we continue to, obviously, make our ads better for our users and for our advertisers.

And in doing so we have actually -- we have done a lot of optimization of our ads that appear above the search results, like Site Links, some of the ad changes and the formats that we made this quarter. And a lot of the ads that appear above the top search results tend to be higher CPC, because they are the first three ads.

So as we continue to optimize and really drive a lot of increased click-through and visibility for the ads that appear above the search results, you will see -- since those tend to be higher CPC because they are at the top of the results, you will see some of that increase.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Larry, on social and switching costs.

LARRY PAGE: So, I think we have been really excited about our Google+ really improving the overall social experience and making it more like how you would share in real life.

That is really a different product than is out there now. And we are getting just rave reviews for that. People really like being able to share with more discrete groups in an easy way and intuitive way. And there is a lot of magic built into the product that causes that.

I will say, and you asked about photos, but we actually have a really good photo experience on Android. Like if you take a picture on Android, and you have the Google+ client, which you would have if you are using it, it uploads your photos automatically. And it's super easy to share them and post them to your friends or your family or whatever. It is a really, really great experience.

There is legacy, and Google as a company believes in users owning their own data, and being able to easily move it out of Google. Some of our competitors don't believe in that. But we think that users will eventually move to services that are in their best interest and they work really well for them.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thank you for your question. It is already 2.30, so why do we take, Jamie, one last question, and then we will have to close the call, unfortunately.

OPERATOR: Jim Friedland, Cowen and Company.

JIM FRIEDLAND, ANALYST, COWEN AND COMPANY: I wanted to ask the question on -- or follow-up on where you guys said that you're a little ahead of where you expected it to be on hiring. Should we think about the hiring, and particularly in R&D, sort of coming in waves where you hire a bunch of people, get them integrated, maybe it slows down and picks up again?

And then the second question test and just on the P&L, other costs of revenue as a percentage of [res dex tack] seemed to be a little high. Is that coming from increased data center depreciation or is it may be coming from YouTube and content-related costs? Thanks.

PATRICK PICHETTE: I will answer the first one, and then -- the latter one -- and then I will let Larry talk about hiring in general. The P&L, yes, it is a combination of factors this quarter. So in that cost is also included headcount. And, so headcount has actually increased. Power has increased because of seasonality. It is summer now, so our power is a little higher. And we have also had kind of catch-up on expenses on some of the equipment.

So there has been a bit of a -- if you think between Q1 and Q2 there has been a bit of a cleanup in some of the areas of equipment that have actually slightly deflated Q1 and inflated Q2 as we finish the cleanup. So there was a bit of a catch-up there.

So I wouldn't read the data point between Q1 and Q2 as -- don't create a graph with that -- with the line. But that is -- it is a bit of everything, including a bit of cleanup in some of the equipment accounts.

For the issue of hiring, I will let Larry actually talk about general, where we stand right now.

LARRY PAGE: Yes, that is a great question. I think just a couple of factors that affected that. And I think -- you know we implemented compensation changes in Q1. We increased our employee compensation. And they have had even more positive effect on hiring and retention than when we expected. That has been a super successful change.

I think, in general, there is just more excited people who want to work at Google and who want to stay working at Google than we expected. So that has had some impact on those numbers.

There is -- of course, there is a limit on how many we can -- and how fast we can productively hire. I said, as in my remarks, I think my judgments were at the edge of that piece being reasonable. We are just adding a lot of people.

I would say that we are always looking for good people, and we are always -- the exact rate is going to depend on success, and where we really want to invest in the Company.

We have a really strong management team, I said, that is working together fabulously. We can absorb those hires and put them to use well. But, like I said, we are definitely -- we are surprised at the success of our previous changes around compensation as well.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thank you very much for your question, Jim. With that, I just want to thank Larry for joining us today, and the Nikesh and Susan for their comments, as well as the Q&A.

I want to thank -- once again, as I always do, all the Googlers out there, our fantastic Googlers that have made this quarter possible, and all of the innovation. Especially, I think it is worth mentioning our Google+ team that had done a phenomenal job in this launch, so two thumbs up. So on behalf of all of us here, congratulations and many thanks to all our gang at Google.

With that, I will let you, Jamie, close the call. And thank you everybody for participating today.

OPERATOR: That does conclude today's conference. We do appreciate everyone's participation.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
goog : Google Inc.
   IN
i8395464 : Internet Search Engines | iint : Internet/Online Services
   NS
c15 : Performance | c151 : Earnings | c22 : New Products/Services | ntra : Transcript | c32 : Advertising | c31 : Marketing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | uk : United Kingdom | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020110728e77e0048t
  


 HD
 Q1  2011 Google Inc Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
12,828 words
   PD
14 April 2011
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©011 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day and welcome, everyone, to the Google Incorporated first-quarter 2011 earnings conference call. This call is being recorded. At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Jane Penner, head of Investor Relations. Please go ahead ma'am.

   TD
JANE PENNER, IR DIRECTOR, GOOGLE INC.: Good afternoon, everyone, and welcome to today's first-quarter 2011 earnings conference call. With us are Patrick Pichette, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Susan Wojcicki, Senior Vice President Advertising; Jeff Huber, Senior Vice President Commerce and Local; Nikesh Arora, Senior Vice President and Chief Business Officer. First Patrick, Susan and Jeff will provide us with their thoughts on the quarter, after which Nikesh will join the group to answer your questions.

Also, as you know, we now distribute our earnings release through our Investor Relations website located at investor.Google.com. So please refer to our IR website for our earnings release, as well as supplementary slides that accompany the call.

This call is also being webcast from investor.Google.com. A replay of the call will be available on our website in a few hours.

Now let me quickly cover the Safe Harbor. Some of the statements we make today may be considered forward-looking, including statements regarding Google's future and investments in our long-term growth and innovation, the expected performance of our business, and our expected level of capital expenditures. These statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially. Please note that these forward-looking statements reflect our opinion only as of the date of this presentation and we undertake no obligation to revise or publicly release results of any revisions to these forward-looking statements in light of new information or future events. Please refer to our SEC filings for a more detailed description of the risk factors that may affect our results.

Please note that certain financial measures which we use on this call, such as operating income and operating margin, are also expressed on a non-GAAP basis and have been adjusted to exclude charges relating to stock-based compensation. We've also adjusted our net cash provided by operating activities to remove capital expenditures, which we refer to as free cash flow. Our GAAP results and reconciliations of non-GAAP to GAAP measures can be found in our earnings press release.

With that, I will now turn the call over to Patrick.

PATRICK PICHETTE, SVP, CFO, GOOGLE INC.: Thank you Jane. Good afternoon everybody. We just happen to have a surprise visit. Larry is joining us for a few minutes at the beginning of the call and wanted to make a few comments, so before we start officially our call, I just want to welcome Larry. Welcome, Larry.

LARRY PAGE, CEO, GOOGLE INC.: Thank you Patrick. It's great to take just a few minutes with all of you.

We've had a tremendous quarter, 27% year over year revenue growth in Q1. I'm really excited about that and I think it shows the strength of our business and our continuing -- kind of continuing growth really in the tech industry. It's really still at the beginning from a user perspective. There's tremendous improvements to be had in our core products and our core business, and we are really excited about that.

I also wanted to mention a little bit about the management team. Everything we told you last quarter has happened as we expected. It's all working very well, exactly as we planned. I'll just reiterate that quickly I am managing the day-to-day operations of Google as CEO, working very closely with my team, and I'm really excited about the progress we've had there. I think we really hit the ground running.

Eric of course is focused externally on the government partnerships, government relations, and partnership outreaches. Last quarter alone, he was in Germany, Brazil, Argentina and Spain. He's been just doing tremendous things for the Company.

Sergey, as we mentioned, is working very intensely on a few emerging projects for us.

Like I said, this is all exactly as we planned, and I'm very, very excited about those changes.

I'd also mention we made a number of changes to just simplify our org and improve our velocity and execution, basically simplify our reporting structures and such.

Now I'm very excited about Google and our momentum, and I'm very, very optimistic about our future.

I also just want to mention we have Jonathan Rosenberg, who's usually done this call, is transitioning out of the Company as we have announced a while ago. I really wanted to thank him for all of his insights and hard work and all of the fine communication with all of you. And so we will clearly miss him, and we really want to thank him from the bottom of our hearts.

So those are the main things I wanted to say. I'm tremendously excited about all of the things that lay before us as a company, and I also want us to say you're in very good hands with the team here, and Patrick, who now should take the call away.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thank you Larry. Thank you for taking a few minutes in the schedule to just drop in. So what we'll do now is we're back -- so we found the phone (technical difficulty) last 30 seconds, and we're going to be back now with the rest of the team to go back to our regular, regular call.

So as an overview, I'll be giving you the regular speech. Susan and Jeff will give you color comments as well in the product area as well as the monetization side, and Nikesh is with us so that when we go through Q&A he'll be able to give you a lot more color commentary in some areas.

Look, we are nothing but very, very excited about our reporting 27% year-over-year revenue growth in Q1. This 27% proves really the logic behind our strategy not only to invest heavily in our core Search business and ads, but also in our new emerging businesses like display, like Mobile, like enterprise.

From an investment perspective, our Q1 results don't only show our continued commitment to invest in hiring, in marketing and in the other areas, but they also, as you can see through our expenses, they reflect for the first time the full impact of the compensation changes we announced in Q4, the 10% salary increase. Google is clearly benefiting from and is also fueling the unrelenting pace of the digital economy that's around us, and its growth that we believe will benefit both Google but in fact the entire ecosystem for a long time to come.

So let's turn to the specifics of our performance for the quarter. Gross revenue, as we mentioned already, 27% to $8.6 billion, and interestingly 2% quarter over quarter. To put this in context, this is quite remarkable if you think that Q4 was an amazingly strong quarter and in fact it adds also the impact of the Nexus One from Q1 of last year and to a lesser extent (inaudible) the events that have occurred in Japan. So Google website's revenue was up 32% year-over-year, $5.9 billion, with strength across all major geographies and verticals.

The Google Network revenue was up 19% year-over-year to $2.4 billion. That network revenue is negatively impacted by two things, the loss of a Search distribution partnership deal and also what has been broadly communicated by Search quality improvement made during the quarter.

Regarding the Search quality improvement, remember that we regularly make such trade-offs. We really believe the quality improvements that have benefited the user always serves us well both in short-term and in the midterm in terms of revenue. So Jeff will cover that in more detail in the coming minutes.

Other revenue was down 10% year-over-year to $269 million. Note that in Q1 of 2010 was the first quarter that we booked Nexus One revenues, and this is what drives the year-over-year decline.

Global aggregate pay-per-click growth -- that's my tongue twister for every quarter -- it was very strong again, up 18% year-over-year, [interesting] 4% of also quarter over quarter, and again reflecting accelerated shift of off-line to online. Aggregate cost per click growth was also quite healthy, up 8%, and only 1% down quarter over quarter. You should all know that the FX had a pretty neutral effect on CPC growth year-over-year and quarter over quarter. Remember too that's an aggregate number and includes both Google.com and our AdSense properties.

Now, turning to our geographic performance, the US and the rest of the world are both growing at a very healthy pace, and our results reflect that. The UK continues to lag a bit because of its global economic recovery and the pace of its recovery.

Revenue from the US was up 25% year-over-year to $4 billion. In our earning slides you can find on our Investor Relations website, you'll see that we have broken down our revenue by US, UK and rest of world to show the impact of FX and the benefit of our hedging program, so please refer to those slides for the exact calculations.

International revenue accounted for 53% of our total revenue, or $4.6 billion. It was up 28% year-over-year, includes a $14 million benefit from our hedging program. That compares to a $10 million benefit of Q1 of last year. If we used a fixed exchange rate, our international revenue would've been roughly $23 million lower year-over-year.

Also it's worth noting that the tragedy in Japan somewhat negatively impacted our international revenue in Q1.

As I mentioned earlier, the UK was up 15% year-over-year to $969 million, as the country continues to experience struggling economy. But even that 15% is really 17% in FX adjusted basis.

Let me turn to expenses. Traffic acquisition costs were $2.0 billion, or 25% of total advertising revenue. For other cost of revenue, $897 million, including stock-based compensation of $49 million. Finally, all operating expenses totaled $2.8 billion, including approximately $383 million in stock-based compensation. The increase year-over-year in OpEx primarily due to payroll, increased advertising and promotional spend, and some of the professional services. So the result of all these expenses are non-GAAP operating profit, which excludes the stock-based compensation, was $3.2 billion in Q1 of this year, resulting in a non-GAAP operating margin of 37.6%.

Headcount was up approximately 1900 people from Q4, ending the quarter with 26,315 full-time employees. Our effective tax rate was 21% roughly; the exact number is 20.5%.

Let me now turn to cash management. Our other income and expenses were $96 million for Q1, in fact a very solid performance from our portfolio management, and unfortunately just masked by the impact of our higher hedging expenses associated with our FAS 133, the accounting of which we know is quite volatile from quarter to quarter. So for more details [on NOI], please again refer to the slides that accompany our call on our IR site.

Operating cash flow very strong, $3.2 billion. CapEx for the quarter, $890 million, significantly below last quarter of $2.5 billion. Remember that last quarter, that increase was largely due to our purchase of New York City office. The majority of CapEx spent in Q1 was related to facilities, expenses and data center operations.

In the facilities space, we spent -- was really driven by the purchase of two buildings, one in Dublin and one in Paris. Just as a reminder, we continue to make significant CapEx investments and we've shown those to be lumpy from quarter-to-quarter depending on when we are able to make such investments. Obviously, we are pleased with our free cash flow, which was $2.3 billion for the quarter.

As I said earlier, our accelerating growth trajectory, it really shows our confidence to expand across products and geographies. Roughly 18 months ago, we began communicating how we were really optimistic about our opportunities, and we had the business confidence to invest heavily in the next phase of innovation and revenue generation. Well, our product innovation over the last 18 months has been nothing short of extraordinary. Let's take a look at this. We've built from scratch the world's most popular smartphone operating system. We've built also from scratch the world's fastest growing browser. In some countries like India, one in four people are now accessing the Web via Chrome. We've reinvented display advertising, creating not only a business but an entire ecosystem with a $2.5 billion annual run rate as of Q3 of last year. We've push the frontier of Mobile Search, creating a whole new Search segment. That is adding to our overall Search volume, and brand-new monetization opportunities.

We've seen YouTube develop into a platform, a win-win platform in fact, where partners to generate significant revenue from their content. End-users watch 2 billion views a day.

Our revenue growth clearly shows the wisdom of those decisions to fuel our growth ahead of the curve. So the [facts speak for] the sales really. The second half of 2010, we grew roughly 25% year-over-year. But even more telling this quarter, growth rate of 27% compared to a comp of 23% just a year ago.

We are building multi-billion-dollar businesses, and we are confident that now is the time to invest. It's with this optimism that we continue to do so aggressively but with discipline, with strong focus on fueling the winning products.

From an expense point of view, we are taking some bold steps but always with good strategic rationale in mind and disciplined in mind. So as our Q1 results continue to reflect some marketing -- you've heard of our marketing going up -- it's a very deliberate choice as an example. We have late made very specific focus on Chrome, customer and advertiser acquisition in the US and international markets. In both cases, we are seeing the fruits of these investments. The same is true for our labor strategy. Finally, we continue to invest in our long-term infrastructure.

So now let me turn it over to Jeff and Susan to provide you more details on the products that are the engine of both our growth and our optimism. They'll also provide you more details on where we are deploying some of these additional resources as they are coming on board. So with that, I'll turn it over to Jeff.

JEFF HUBER, SVP, COMMERCE & LOCAL, GOOGLE INC.: Thanks Patrick. Hi everyone.

In his comments, Patrick mentioned our ambitious hiring this quarter, which was by design. We announced in January with a blog post help energize recruiting that 2011 will be the biggest hiring year in our history, topping the 6000 people we hired in 2007, and we ended up hiring 1900 people this quarter. We're very happy about this because we feel this is a very good time to invest. We look at the factors like our revenue growth and how well our core and growing businesses are doing, and say to ourselves, who wouldn't want to invest in this business? So that's what we are doing, hiring great people to invest in the future. In fact, over half the [newglers] who joined this quarter are going to be working in high potential and revenue growth areas like YouTube, Mobile, Chrome, commerce and local, and enterprise.

So that's what Susan and I are going to talk about today. We'll give you an update on our core business of Search and ads as well as these businesses where we are investing. Susan will cover our ads products, Search ads, Mobile ads, local ads, display ads, and YouTube. I'll talk about Search, Android, Chrome and enterprise.

So let's jump in with Search. Search is the most important thing people do online, and there's loads of opportunities to make Search more intelligent and more personal, intelligent as in better quality. Our primary focus is to always create the best user experience, so this quarter we launched over 90 different quality improvements. Most notably, we made an important change to our ranking algorithms to promote higher-quality sites. This noticeably impacted about 12% of all queries and has done a good job. We found it addressed over 80% of the sites that users reported as a poor experience via a Chrome feature we introduced a while ago. This change did have an adverse impact on revenues for some sites in our display network, but we've continually found improving Search results in our users' experience is always the best thing to do in the long run and for long-term value.

Personal, as in building around people -- we improved social Search this quarter, making it easier to find information and recommendations from the people that matter to you, whether they're publishing on YouTube or Flickr or their own blog or website. We also launched the +1 button, which makes it easy to share recommendations with the world via Google Search results. This is just the beginning. We've got lots more useful and relevant social Search features coming soon.

A lot more of our Searches are coming from Mobile devices. This traffic has gone up more than 500% in the last two years. Android is obviously a big driver of this. We are activating over 350,000 Android devices every day.

Android market is taking off too. Over 3 billion apps have been installed, up 50% in just the last quarter. You can now access the market online, triad@market@Android.com, so you can shop and browse for apps for your computer, click the purchase and they just magically show up on your device.

We also recently launched in-app billing, which has been very enthusiastically received and which gives developers more ways to make money from their hard work.

Another product that's doing very well is Chrome. Chrome users are very valuable to Google, and as we've said in past quarters, we are investing in Chrome marketing. The payoff is worth it. We have over 120 million daily users, over 40% of whom we added in the past year as a result of our marketing efforts. The Chrome OS program is also going well, and we look forward to launching devices with our partners later this year.

Our enterprise business is growing across both businesses and schools. As example, this quarter, we deployed Google apps at Intercontinental Hotel Groups and RR Donnelley signed a reseller agreement with Optus, which is the largest, second-largest telco in Australia, and signed up the University of Texas and Boston University.

We were pleased that our deal with our deal with ITA Software was approved by the DOJ last week and closed this week. Travel Search is an area with lots of potential for innovation, both for end-users and as a platform for the industry. We're looking forward to bringing the ITA team on board and doing great things together.

That wraps up my remarks, but before I turn it over to Susan, I want to take a minute to thank Jonathan Rosenberg, who has been a regular on these calls, for all he's done for Google. Jonathan and I have been friends and colleagues for over 15 years. On behalf of myself and Susan, who also worked closely with Jonathan for the last nine years, I can assure all of you that he will be missed. Over to you, Susan.

SUSAN WOJCICKI, SVP, ADVERTISING, GOOGLE INC.: Thank you Jeff. Hi everyone.

So, there are a lot of things to be excited about in our ads business. I'd like to share a few updates from the quarter and Search display and Mobile apps.

Search is still our core business. Even though it's a really large business, we see significant opportunity for growth, as Larry mentioned. One of the things that we've been focusing on is thinking about how we can serve the most perfect ad for every query. A query for a product will require a very different kind of ad than a query about a movie. In order to do this, we are enabling new, creative types and new ways for advertisers to set up their campaigns.

One example of this is product listing ads, which we released the US advertisers in Q4. If you're a retailer and have hundreds of thousands of SKUs, it's hard to set up a separate feeds for each one of those. So product listing ads automatically creates ads from product feeds rather than from keywords. Then a retailer can run a unique ad for every product without doing any extra work. We are seeing great advertiser adoption and about half of the largest retailers in the US are now running these ads.

If you do a Search for soccer cleats, something I am thinking about buying for my daughter, you can see some of these on the right-hand side. The ads include pictures and prices. That's something you'd want to see if you're going to buy something. The ads are really effective too. They are about twice the click-through of standard text ads in the same location.

This quarter, we also launched a much richer ad format for more brand focused advertisers. We're calling this format [Mediads], because we are starting with the movie and entertainment advertisers. We think this format will work for all types of brand advertisers on Search as well. These (inaudible) can include images or videos, and in the case of the movie studios, it will include a movie trailer. Again, there are no keywords and Google figures out the right queries to serve the ad.

To see one of these ads, try Searching for the movie "Water for Elephants". If you're Searching for a movie, and the movie -- and you wind up seeing the movie trailer in the ad, we're getting you a lot closer to seeing the perfect ad. So as you can see, there's a lot of opportunity for more innovation within Search ads.

I'd like to move on to display right now. I'm very proud of how well our display business has been growing. We bought DoubleClick three years ago. We've done a lot of integration together. As a result, we've seen a lot of progress.

Our Google display network is up five times since acquisition. We've been doubling annually in several of our key markets, like the UK, Brazil and Japan.

Now, most display advertisers can be bucketed in one of two categories. They can think about themselves as being performance oriented where they value conversions and clicks, or more brand oriented where they're focused on raising awareness.

Last quarter, we started to develop some features for brand advertisers. We launched Google Display Network Reserve, which gives advertisers the ability to buy premium inventory on a guaranteed basis, which is how brand advertisers are telling us they want to buy the inventory. We're also giving advertisers tools that help them measure the impact of their campaigns on things like brand lift rather than just clicks and conversions.

Our Ad Exchange, which has been focused on building a unified buying platform so that advertisers and agencies can buy the exact audiences they want across the Internet. The transaction volume on the Ad Exchange has tripled in the past year. Two-thirds of that inventory is being bought via real-time bidding, which is a new technology to enable much more programmatic and scientific ad buying. It also results in better ads for users and gets us closer again to serving the more perfect ad.

YouTube is another part of ours display strategy. Revenue is doubling year-over-year and we share that revenue with over 20,000 content partners. We're starting to see a virtuous cycle. The more money we make for our content partners, the more engaging content they upload. So as you can see, there has been a lot of nice progress in display due to the results of a lot of people at Google.

Moving onto Mobile, we are seeing growth this year really taking off. AdMob, the display network that we acquired last year, has over 150 million iOS and Android devices making requests per month. That's up 50% in the past four months, which gives you an idea of how fast Mobile display advertising is growing.

Many of our advertisers are starting to run Mobile only campaigns as opposed to bundling it with their desktop campaigns. It enables advertisers to move to much more customized Mobile experiences. They will have Mobile landing pages and campaigns that can incorporate location. For example, how far away is the advertiser from where you are standing right now? These customizations again get us to the perfect ad on Mobile, since users also want to have location or they want to have phone number.

We're also seeing click-to-call taking off with more than 0.5 million advertisers using these features. As a result, the Mobile-only campaigns are seeing an increase of 11.5% when they run a Mobile-only campaign as opposed to a bundled Mobile desktop.

These are just a few of the examples and the opportunity that we see in Mobile. This overview is just a few -- and a small set of the many, many projects that we are investing in [across ads].

Now back to Patrick.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thank you Susan and Jeff for this comprehensive look at what's going on across our core products. What I suggest we do now is we turn it back to Jay to give us the instructions on how to get to the Q&A, and just jump right into the Q&A if you don't mind.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Spencer Wang, Credit Suisse.

SPENCER WANG, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Thanks, good afternoon. So a question on spending for Patrick -- I think OpEx, excluding TAC, was up something like 45% year-over-year. So is this the type of spending that you think will be required to sustain high 20% revenue growth going forward, or is this more reflective of near-term investment to support the growth initiative you've talked about and spending tapers off at some point in the future?

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thanks for your question. There is clearly the effect of the one-time salary change for this quarter that is flowing through. In fact, in the increase in salaries, what you have is triple effect this quarter specifically. Everybody at Google got a 10% salary increase. In addition to that, because it's the beginning of the year, the salary increases flow through to many of the benefits like the 401(k)s and the vacation accruals. So many of the resets that are done in the first quarter are disproportionate in additional kind of flow-through costs.

Then finally, we have new Googlers. The newglers I think Jeff made a really good compelling case to explain why we are hiring them and then how we distribute them. So on the labor side, you clearly have a one-time step change, but after that, we're going to continue to be in our regular momentum.

In other areas, if I take marketing for example, marketing has increased through last year because we see the great returns. So for marketing specifically, we continue to -- we don't expect to slow down our marketing because it is proving such a kind of attractive set of returns, both for customer acquisition and for key, key products, like Chrome. So for those, we are actually going to continue our momentum on them.

In many areas of the Company, we continue to be, like most areas, continue to be incredibly disciplined. People have to show up every 90 days to a complete OCQ process where we do quarterly reviews to get your next (inaudible) funding. The discipline of the Company has not changed; we're just really bullish on our prospects.

SPENCER WANG: Thanks Patrick.

OPERATOR: James Mitchell, Goldman Sachs.

JAMES MITCHELL, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Thank you very much. If I could follow-up with a couple of questions around expenses. Also, we are having some issues downloading the presentation slides, so it would be great if you could repost them at some point.

But first of all, Patrick, you mentioned in your discussion of OpEx there were some other professional expenses in the first quarter. Was that a reference to legal costs or other things?

Then secondly, when we look at the substantial marketing spending around Chrome, is that like a short-term campaign or more of a forever war, and (inaudible) took out one of the strategic benefits to Google of consumers adopting the Chrome browser?

PATRICK PICHETTE: So let me start out with just Professional Services, and then I'll let Nikesh give you the context of Chrome as well.

So for OpEx, it's a number of areas. We're pushing right now, we are pushing hard on a few areas, including the geo product, where we are doing a lot of the mapping worldwide, so at the beginning of the year, we just kind of ramped up a number in there. We also have a couple of other areas. We do have slightly more legal expense as well, but also real estate is the third component where, because of the Googlers coming onboard, we just need more services to support those Googlers. So that's the highest-level answer for Professional Services.

For Chrome, let me give you just a 10-second umbrella and then I'll let Nikesh give you more color commentary. There is really a two story on Chrome, and there is a tactical question and there is a strategic question. Chrome is really pushing the Web, and it has a fantastic opportunity that, when people have adopted Chrome, they basically instead of looking for Google and looking for Search, the omnibus gives them immediate access to Google Search. So from a strategic perspective, it has that in Chrome OS. On a tactical basis, everybody that uses Chrome is a guaranteed locked-in user for us in terms of having access to Google. So maybe, Nikesh, if you have more additional comments on the performance of the marketing.

NIKESH ARORA, PRESIDENT OF GLOBAL SALES OPS & BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT, GOOGLE INC.: Just to add to that, I think, as Jeff mentioned, we have over 120 million daily users and 40% of them were added in the past year as a result of our marketing efforts. So you've seen the 30% growth quarter-over-quarter in our Chrome usage. So I think, from all perspectives, the Chrome strategy is working. The way we distribute Chrome is people get it organically or they get it based on our marketing efforts, or they see our marketing and they choose to download it, or we work with partners who help us promote Chrome to our users and to other users. So in that context, we found that marketing very often ends up with an equivalent or better ROI than us having to go to partnership deals. Sometimes you'll see that our TAC and our marketing around Chrome is fungible. Where we spend money and marketing, we take away from TAC as it relates to Chrome. So you can expect us to continue to drive Chrome strategically because it has not just a Chrome specific benefit for us but it also impacts many of our other products that work as part of Chrome. So the lifetime value of a Chrome user is phenomenal.

JAMES MITCHELL: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Ben Schachter, Macquarie.

BEN SCHACHTER, ANALYST, MACQUARIE RESEARCH: I was wondering if you could give us, from a high-level, the view of how Larry views this Company differently today or how we should view it differently, given Larry's position. Is it going to change in any meaningful way?

PATRICK PICHETTE: In short, look, I think the Company's position has not changed. Google is a technology company focused on users and looking for products that can affect billions of people. So the very first lens that you have to think through when you think of Google is are we developing computer science helping, finding answers to problems where billions of people can be served. If you think that way, Chrome makes sense. Android make sense. Search makes sense. All these things are the fundamentals of the Company.

From there, it's very clear that, again, to paraphrase an old saying of ours, the 70/20/10 is very much alive and well. Search is the next $1 billion business. Never forget it. Every quarter -- you've heard this time. 90 kind of improvements on one side, 40 on the other, and that's one a day. That's a lot of engineering work to keep ahead of the -- but these are the next $1 billion businesses. It's in its infancy. And so our two or three other of our key products, which include Mobile, display, enterprise -- so and then the 10%? Well, it's commerce. It's local that we all know is nascent. It's social that we know also is nascent. And so the strategy of the Company is continuing to be in the same core lenses, building same products that serve billions of people and to make multi-billion-dollar businesses (inaudible).

BEN SCHACHTER: If I could follow-up briefly, I was trying to get more at the financial model of the Company, if there's any meaningful difference now that Larry is in this different position. Do you and does he think about the financial model in a different way than we had previously?

PATRICK PICHETTE: No, build great products, and then same financial discipline.

BEN SCHACHTER: Thanks.

OPERATOR: Ross Sandler, RBC Capital Markets.

ROSS SANDLER, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: I hate to beat a dead horse on the operating expense, but just one more follow-up question on that. You guys have stated that a lot of the operating expense uptick has been related to customer acquisition in Chrome. I know there are some salespeople that have been added to the platform. But if you were making these investments, do you feel that your high 20% year-on-year growth rate will be achievable, or do you think these OpEx additions are going to be additive in future periods, kind of four, six, eight second quarter down the road?

PATRICK PICHETTE: I think you have to look at the strategy. You have to take a look at the strategy in the context of the last, like the last four or five quarters have increased in OpEx, but when you look at our trajectory of revenue growth going from 23% to 24% to 25% to 27% this quarter, we are really funding and accelerating, with discipline, our revenue growth. That is the fundamental -- if we don't see a great ROI, you won't see us spending the money. We just happen to have great opportunities to fuel. Why not carpe diem now? It's there to take. That's really the mindset we put at it.

ROSS SANDLER: One other follow-up on that. So the IAB came out and said the display marketplace in the US is around $10 billion, so if we double that and say global display is $20 billion, you guys would be a little bit north of 10% on a run rate basis of global display. How big can that business be? Can you talk about, as display becomes a bigger percentage of total revenue, what impact that has on your overall operating margin just from a mix shift basis? Thanks.

PATRICK PICHETTE: So let me start with the latter and then I'll let Nikesh talk about the former. Clearly, Search is a unique product that has very, very high margin. Because display is more complex, there's more paperwork involved even today with display. It's a somewhat lower margin. It's still a great margin product and it's a product that, because of the -- it's still a very good margin product, and so all of those dollars I want from an operating margin point of view. So there's no way we would let -- and there's a great symbiotic relationship between display ads, take Susan's example. What was a pure display ad before is now embedded in Search. So the symbiotic relationship is very important as well. As to the total size of the market, I'll let Nikesh give you some color commentary.

NIKESH ARORA: Thanks Patrick. I think it's important to look at the advertising market for Display in the context of the overall advertising market, which is a $600 billion to $700 billion market globally. You can go back and say five years ago, the display was sort of stalled around $15 billion to $16 billion as a market, because we didn't have video in the mix.

Now, with video, everything changes. We've been recently doing some campaigns in the UK where we are trying to do some efficiency YouTube versus television. They found YouTube helps people reach 20%, 24% more consumers in a target segment, and you can do that in a dispersed manner. You don't have to buy one ad which 20 million people look at. You can do that on a literally user-by-user basis. So you're seeing the efficiency of the Web applied to video, which is going to change the way the entire display market functions. All of our efforts in the last two or three years have been towards targeting that market, but it's all our acquisition on the technology side, whether it's all of our efforts in trying to create a multi-product sales force across 50 different countries around the world. We are gearing ourselves to be able to sell display with special emphasis on rich media and video, which is going to help us sort of make that a relevant space at Google.

As far as Patrick answered the margin question, but from my perspective, I am told that every profitable dollar revenue is good.

ROSS SANDLER: Thanks guys.

OPERATOR: Justin Post, Bank of AmericaMerrill Lynch.

JUSTIN POST, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Thank you. I'll lay off expenses for now. Can we talk about Google's access to social data? Obviously, you're not running a major social network in some geographies. What's your experience there? Do you think having access to social data is going to be important for having the best query results on the Web when you look out three to five years? Thank you.

JEFF HUBER: This is Jeff. We do see social as very important. Google uses well over 200 signals in terms of how we think about ranking today. When we think about identity and relationships, those are key signals that can and should be integrated in the experience. So it is important, but it's one of the many that we use.

In terms of assets that apply to that, we do have a very, very large number of users coming to our door every day. A considerable percentage of them are logged-in users that are using multiple of our products, so there is a large variety of signals that we'll be able to use with user support and users seeing value from it to make the overall experience better.

PATRICK PICHETTE: I think it's worth, just in closing, you've all heard of the launch of +1 a couple of days ago, or a couple of weeks ago. It's, again, a commitment from us to get every signal we can to give the best answer for the users. So you should expect continued focus on social as one of the 200 signals and get as rich as possible as an answer across the board.

JUSTIN POST: If I could do a follow-up, does Chrome give you any signals that you can use and integrate into your Search results?

PATRICK PICHETTE: Maybe Jeff would know a better answer of that, if Chrome gives us additional signals on social or other types of signals.

JEFF HUBER: So Chrome we think will be part of the story over time. Chrome does have features where it is personalized today. For example, the Chrome experience, you can essentially sign into Chrome and it will synchronize all of your information across different instances, across different computers. So that is information that, again, with user engagement, end-user seeing value from it, that could be useful.

JUSTIN POST: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Mark Mahaney, Citigroup.

MARK MAHANEY, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Two questions. First, Patrick, you talked about taking bold steps to address expenses. It's just not obvious in the P&L results. So can you give us any examples of what those bold steps are?

Then secondly, I know you're talking about social being one of several hundred signals, but is there any way to indicate (inaudible) evidence you've seen so far that indicates that it's materially greater than those other variables, or just as important but no more important than the other variables?

PATRICK PICHETTE: So on the issue of expenses, what you see is the ramp up on one side, but I can guarantee you, because we have gone through the planning process for this year, that everybody that has a cost center has to demonstrate productivity. So in the case of data centers, there's productivity requirements that are actually incredibly steep. In the case of the sales force, the cash could give you a great set of examples that his productivity is kind of think of it as in his case cost per revenue dollar. In the case of [URS], it's cost per bit and cost of storage. In the case of all staff functions, whether it be in legal, whether it be in real estate, whether it be in cost of food, whether it be cost of transportation, every one of them are expected to have a productivity curve. So in this fast-growing business -- like Google is growing like from a base of revenue of roughly $8 billion -- 25% year-over-year. That's $2 billion of revenue. So from that perspective, you have a tide coming with it, but under that tide I can tell you every element of the Company is scrubbed and scrutinized. So I would -- I just want to give comfort to our shareholders that there is these quarterly review processes and these annual unit costs continue to kind of haunt many of my managers when they come to my office.

On the signaling portion of it, Jeff probably can give more commentary about social versus others.

JEFF HUBER: So as mentioned, it is one of the signals among many that we have. We are very optimistic that we'll be able to do great things with better social signals over time. At this point, it's a little early to tell, but we regularly measure and tune, so we will be looking forward to that as the experiments continue.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thanks for your question. I know that, for our shareholders and many analysts on the call, it is top of mind for people when we grow our expenses in the way we have to ask that question. So Mark, I just want to thank you because it lays -- it gave me the opportunity to lay the ground clear on these issues.

Let's go to our next question.

OPERATOR: Brian Pitz, UBS.

BRIAN PITZ, ANALYST, UBS: Could you provide any color on impacts to the user experience from the recent Panda changes? Has it impacted click-through or CPCs on the paid ad side? Then in terms of the overall online display industry, would you differentiate between drivers? Do you think more impactful ad units are driving growth, or is it more complex data and algorithms and more granular targeting? Thanks.

JEFF HUBER: I'll start with the experience of the changes that we've made to improve overall quality and promote high-quality sites. I mentioned in my comments that on the order of 12% of queries were positively affected, in our view, and that's in terms of our changes. That is a pretty significant change that has that scope. We felt very good or confident in it because we were able to measure against the feedback loop that we had of user reported sites that they found that weren't as great of an experience. Just to confirm, it was Web Search only, not ads. It didn't have any material measurable impact in Search ads at either CPC or CTR. We did mention that there was some effect on the display network of sites that were essentially the receivers of some of those clicks previously, but our focus is again overall on the user experience, the best possible user experience and long-term value.

I'll turn it over to Susan on the balance of the questions around the display network.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Can you, Brian, give us -- repeat the question -- the second piece (multiple speakers).

BRIAN PITZ: Yes, the second piece was, in terms of overall online display industry, would you guys differentiate between do you think more impactful ad units will be driving growth, or is it more complex data, more complex algorithms, and more granular targeting?

SUSAN WOJCICKI: This is Susan. I'm happy to answer that one. I think, in display, what I see happening right now with display is that we are really at a point where there is ability to buy audiences and to do much more specific targeting than there ever was in the past. We also have much better tools in order to do that and better formats. So I think the combination of all of these things, over time, will enable us to have better ads and have them much more targeted at the right users. That's really a combination across all of them.

It is important to note that really one thing that distinguishes our display strategy is that we are focused on building an end-to-end platform to enable buying across the Internet for all advertisers and for all publishers. We believe that if we do that and if we do that efficiently, that there will be a lot more dollars that will move over, as Nikesh mentioned, from off-line to online, which is where the users are moving. So we just need to make sure that the systems and the technology can support that.

BRIAN PITZ: Thanks guys.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thank you for your question, Brian. Just to reemphasize just that last point from Susan, there are properties that are going to be kind of tuned to display. It's true for YouTube, it's true -- but the ecosystem itself of the entire Web is so much more powerful. That's why we have the strategy we have.

Why don't we turn it over to the next question.

OPERATOR: Scott Devitt, Morgan Stanley.

SCOTT DEVITT, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Thanks. Two questions please. The first one, I was just wondering if tablet operating share is important to Google as smartphone share. Given Apple's different lower margin pricing strategy on tablets, how Google plans to influence market share in that category? And then just one follow-up.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Sure. Jeff, comments on tablet versus smartphones versus PCs?

JEFF HUBER: This is Jeff. Tablets are doing very well. There's certainly been a lot of growth in that segment. In terms of its dynamics, there are some interesting properties where it's really a hybrid between a Mobile device and a desktop when you look at user behavior and the kind of things that they are doing with it. So it sort of falls between the two of those.

We're very optimistic. Android has some great products coming along. We have the Honeycomb operating system that is developed specifically for tablet application. The Motorola Zoom is the first device that's come along, runs on Motorola now. It was the product of the show at the Consumer Electronics Show in January. I think you'll see a lot of other products coming along and a lot of innovation in the market around tablets in that format. We have also introduced -- just jumping into ads for a little bit -- recently a feature where we can enable advertisers to specifically target tablet devices, which we think will also help that segment.

SCOTT DEVITT: Then secondly, just to the extent that employee bonuses may be partially tied to your social efforts, I'm just wondering if you could define success in that area. Thanks.

PATRICK PICHETTE: I think what we're going to do is, because this is an internal matter, the key message I'd like to leave with everybody is we focus, as we said, across a strategy, across many platforms. We wanted to signal to the employees that social is clearly a signal that is worth investing in. That's why we made a decision. But we wouldn't comment further on that. Thanks for your questions. Jay, our next question please?

OPERATOR: Jeetil Patel, Deutsche Bank Securities.

JEETIL PATEL, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Thanks, two questions. When we talk to a lot of your shareholders, I think the general view is that Search is such a great business and a phenomenal asset. However, it seems like, at the same time, there seems to be kind of a growing concern that engagement seems to be a bigger theme that seems to be winning out in this industry, whether it be from smaller companies that have unique products or just different approaches in the marketplace. I'm curious. Have you guys looked at the 70/20/10 approach to the business and rethought maybe the allocation should be shifted a bit towards building greater engagement in the business, try to maybe kind of look at how other products and services can be integrated in? I guess that's question number one. I have a quick follow-up.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Let me give you a mega-answer related to that, which is if you think of the Web in general and how the platforms are growing, one would argue that where we are focusing our investment is in areas where, yes, engagement matters. But if you think of where we are putting emphasis in local, for example, or in Mobile for example, or for YouTube for example, all of these areas are all about engagement and their engagement between advertisers and small-medium businesses and their customers that are walking down the street, and then adding more signals to the quality of their restaurant experience they had or otherwise. It's true for YouTube with so much more different kind of either lean-back, with kind of chatting and giving kind of ratings and every one of our products has just naturally evolved. Then with -- again, with Mobile and same thing with Chrome, we see many of these areas. Engagement is another element of the strategy that's kind of pervasive across -- but the technology themselves also fuel that. So, it's kind of a symbiotic relationship between the two. So at the highest level, Search itself is so much more engaged today than it was three years ago and will be even more engaged in the coming three years. So it's absolutely part of the fabric of the strategy we have.

JEETIL PATEL: It sounds like we may be missing it in that it's engagement through frequency of services utilized through everyday life as a consumer as opposed to engagement through just share of time over one continuous spectrum.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Well, you it have across -- when you're in YouTube, the question is are you spending more minutes of your day actually on YouTube? That's opportunities for engagement. When you're with your Android phone and you're actually living down the street and you're now in town, your engagement opportunities, both in terms of the product that you use and the engagement of the additional signal that you get with sharing with your friends or otherwise, continue to fuel it, but absolutely the core platforms that we have in place will have that as a core element.

JEETIL PATEL: Does Chrome -- just a quick question on Chrome. Does that give you the potential to create unique products inside of Chrome, such as obviously folding in apps from Google as well as creating digital content services within the Chrome environment?

JEFF HUBER: Yes, this is Jeff. There's a great opportunities in Chrome. You start to see the beginnings of that, and we launched a capability a while ago called the Chrome Web Store, which is bringing the same kind of model that we have with Android market to that platform. There is a tremendous amount of innovation that is happening on the Web as a platform that we think Chrome will be able to take advantage of and be the best on ramp for.

JEETIL PATEL: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Jason Maynard, Wells Fargo.

JASON MAYNARD, ANALYST, WELLS FARGO SECURITIES: I have two questions. First, on the Mobile opportunity, what do you think a Mobile user is approximately worth today on an annual basis? Where do you think that can trend as you bring in more local and commerce capabilities? Then real quick second for Patrick, how should investors think about the financial parameters around potentially larger acquisitions? I'm not talking about the little tuck-in type of deals, but as Google maybe contemplates some bigger type of Company purchases, if you will?

PATRICK PICHETTE: Who wants to tackle Mobile. Jeff?

JEFF HUBER: So in terms of specifically quantifying the value of a Mobile user today, that's not something that I can comment on specifically of how we are valuing them. That said, if you look at the kind of investments we are making, if you look at the focus of the organization, it is something we are very, very excited about, and I think there is great potential there.

If you look at some of just the monetization side of it, there's things that we have done around click-to-call ads. If you think about very locally targeted ads, it is a capability of our platform, the ability to engage users where they are at with commercial opportunities. It's tremendous overall, so we think that's great.

In terms of where it trends over time, increasingly the smartphone is becoming an extension of the person; it becomes how they probably do everything, how they communicate, how they are entertained, how they are informed. So we think there will be convergence over time between the phone or Mobile device and other behavior that people are historically familiar with.

JASON MAYNARD: Is there an order of -- if I may just follow-up on that, is there an order of magnitude that you think can take place from today versus, say, three years from now, without maybe giving specific numbers?

SUSAN WOJCICKI: This is Susan. I'm going to answer that one. One way I would think about that is I think we are still very, very early on in what Mobile can do. But I do think that Mobile will bring completely new ways that we will be interacting with merchants, with advertisers, with our friends over time. The value of those transactions can't be very valuable, but I think what it will actually do is it will grow the overall opportunity, the overall pie, and enables us to interact in new ways. So it's hard at this point to really estimate how that will change over time other than we think it's going to grow a lot and that there will be new models that we (technical difficulty) today.

PATRICK PICHETTE: So to summarize these two thoughts together, without like really any radical effort -- let me make the case for Android. That is the platform that enables so much of it. We already announced at the end of Q3 that this was a $1 billion run rate business. We tripped into it with people kind of adapting what was desktop onto Mobile, that was clunky. It's growing at an amazing blazingly pace in terms of usage. So what you do know is the combination of if you think of the areas of Search, of local, of commerce, of entertainment, and just on Mobile, we tripped into $1 billion. It just gives you the sense of momentum for the opportunities ahead of us. That's why we have the focus areas that we have. So that's why we are so optimistic about Mobile.

Now, if I circle back to your financial parameters for larger acquisitions, we are quite disciplined and we've made that comment many times about acquisitions in general at Google. We have a [cauldron] which we operate where you're looking for the perfect mix between intellectual properties of great code, a great team, and great products at a price that we can afford -- we think makes strategic sense.

So many of -- like, you hear of all the stories of the acquisitions we make. What you don't hear is all the acquisitions that we actually refuse because they just to pass our bar. In the case of a large transformative one, we look at them all the time. If we had one that actually made sense to finally accelerate a big piece of our agenda, we would do it. We just have not found one yet. And so we'll continue to look at it. We have the position to be able to jump and make big acquisitions. We just want to make sure we don't have distractions. We have a very focused agenda, and you have to have a really good fit, because big acquisitions can be a massive distraction for Google. Google is a specific culture; it's quite a unique culture. In that context, we want to make sure that if we were ever to make a large acquisition, it would have to pass a double bar of not only strategic financial sense, but in addition to that, that it wouldn't become a distraction to the Company but in fact accelerate it. That's a pretty high bar to pass.

JASON MAYNARD: Thank you.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thank you for your question. Let's go to the next question.

OPERATOR: Jason Helfstein, Oppenheimer.

JASON HELFSTEIN, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER & CO.: Thanks. Two questions, one for Susan and then kind of a bigger picture question. So when we think about the Company's ability to grow into local, how important is a local sales force? Are we starting to see the impact of adding local salespeople on the expenses?

Then secondly, the reorganization, as far as under Larry, based on kind of product, would make sense, particularly where we all believe the Internet is going. When we think about, however, like if I look on your Google products page, there's just still an enormous amount of products the Company offers, albeit revenue is generally concentrated in a few of those products. Do you think we will see a streamlining of products available under the new kind of reorganization? Thanks.

PATRICK PICHETTE: I'll let Nikesh talk about the local area, where on the sell side he's been kind of spearheading activities, and then I'll give you a conversation about the org issues.

NIKESH ARORA: I guess it's important to understand that, with millions of advertisers we service through our various advertising products, we are constantly in touch with small, medium, large business across the board. Most recently, we've turned on phone support and on-boarding and soft-landing for all of our small advertisers. So we do (inaudible) the small business [as] small businesses. As we have products that work more and more with local advertisers, we anticipate having a team that works with those advertisers. Now, how we do it is still something we are constantly debating. In some cases, it works really well with our existing call centers, or our existing teams which work from around the world. It sometimes requires people on feet on the street, which we also have in over 40 countries around the world. So we are going to use a sort of combination of existing sales teams and sales methods and other sales teams and sales methods that might be required to drive some of our products whether they are in the commissary or the local area or in the area of providing offers to our customers. But more on that as we continue to drive those products through our sales.

PATRICK PICHETTE: For the issue of broad organization, let me make two comments. The first one is we are -- the realignment that Larry talked about earlier on this call has been really about an organization model that we had where it was an (inaudible) person and a product person for every core of our products, and then often also a salesperson. And so if you think of having to have two or three products to work together, you end up with sometimes six or nine decision-makers having to align themselves.

Larry made a very specific call to say, for every one of those core product areas, we have one here in the room, in fact two in the room, which is Jeff for commerce and local. Jeff is now the financial -- final arbiter and decision-maker, and that's to drive velocity. By the way, take comfort also that these -- the reorg has been on all the core pillars of the Company. So the real core issue that we wanted to make sure that Larry wanted to have in place when he launched into a CEO is clear decision-makers for velocity. Everybody takes comfort about that. For the rest of the smaller ones, too early to tell. We're just not there yet. We are really focused on the big areas for now. Then when the time comes, we'll cover the smaller areas. That's the way we approached it and we are really thrilled to see the momentum already. Thanks Jason for your question on that.

OPERATOR: Youssef Squali, Jefferies & Co.

YOUSSEF SQUALI, ANALYST, JEFFERIES & CO.: Two quick questions please, first starting with Susan. I know you guys won't break out absolute dollar numbers, but if we just look at the non-Search, non-CPC business, I mean CPM and CPA, can you help us understand or kind of quantify what kind of revenue growth did you see either on a year-on-year basis or on a sequential basis, just to kind of see the magnitude of your success there. Then I guess maybe for Jeff, Google has been pretty quiet about its video strategy out of YouTube's -- outside of YouTube's user-generated content. Does Google have a video strategy from (inaudible) UGC that you can speak to us about? Thanks.

PATRICK PICHETTE: On the first -- let me talk about the latter one first and the let Susan talk about the first one. On the non-UGC content, we've made a number of addition to the YouTube team that have very specific expertise in that area, so you should kind of consider it that we have a focus on it but we have nothing specific to announce. Jeff may have additional comments on that.

JEFF HUBER: Yes. With YouTube, YouTube's roots obviously start with user-generated content. There is a tremendous -- both size and activity in the user base there. So there is a great asset that we begin with. We are interested in long-form premium content in the longer term role of YouTube. Another area that we are very excited about and we announced an acquisition this quarter of a company called Next New Networks which is signaling intent for developing content that is kind [of] volume for this new medium that's being created. So I think you'll see a lot more of that as well.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thank you, Jeff. Susan, on the first question of non-CPC revenues and models?

SUSAN WOJCICKI: Sure. Actually, one thing I do want to kind of step back for is that we are thinking about the best way for advertisers to be bidding and to be paying for an ad across the Search and Display. And so with Search for example, we are enabling our advertisers to bid for example with the CPA target. Then Google will figure out the CPCs and the background. So that's one way that [we've found] for example has really grown advertisers' spend on Search.

The product listing ads that I talked about on the -- in the script actually works with the CPA model. So in display, we have advertisers who bid on a CPC basis and when they bought -- they also bid on a CPM basis. Right now, we see advertisers participating in both. A lot of times, it has to do with the objective of the advertiser in terms of whether they are more performance-driven or more brand-driven. As we release more brand features, like I mentioned like the reserve, that would be a CPM feature.

So really what we see is that the bidding is very important, but we want to give advertisers a lot of flexibility in how they actually buy it, how they are able to optimize depending upon their objective. There's no one right way. There is just -- there is a series of things that we will offer to make sure that we have the right product for the advertiser.

YOUSSEF SQUALI: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Jordan Rohan, Stifel Nicolaus.

JORDAN ROHAN, ANALYST, STIFEL NICOLAUS: A couple of smaller questions. Can you be a bit more specific about the magnitude of the disruption in the Japanese Search market that you saw in the quarter? Second, Android -- you mentioned 350,000 devices activated per day. Can you give us some understanding of how that breaks down by smartphone versus tablet and US versus international? Thank you.

PATRICK PICHETTE: So on Japan, let me make two comments. One is the events really shocked us as well at Google. I just want to let the investors know that our first and first response to all of the events were really to actually help the Japanese community. So it was about people finding people and all the tools that we have for disaster recovery. We spent a lot of time at Google to actually focus on the community rather than trying to optimize anything that had to do with revenue.

Clearly, the month of March has seen some impact from revenue, because all of the community in Japan was focused on the events themselves -- tons of Searches, by the way, but not monetized [for] Searches. Japan is a great market for us, and it was and continues to be a very good performing market. So from that perspective, when we look ahead into Q2 and Q3, the one thing we do know is we've actually asked -- we made a quick Search. We asked Hal Varian, our chief economist, to look at other events that would've occurred in Japan of that type of magnitude to see the resiliency of Japan. He looked, for example, at the economic recovery after the Kobe disaster of '95. Japan is actually a first-world country with a very good infrastructure, so they bounced back fast. So although we can't predict how the Japanese economy is going to rebound on advertising, what is very clear is they are a first-world economy that will recover.

So from right now, all we can do is say it's already a strong economy for us and a strong market. It has had an impact in Q1. We expect some impact in Q2 as they try to recover, but it will continue to be a strong market for us. So that's on the first -- on the second question.

On the first question, why don't I turn it over to Jeff.

JEFF HUBER: So on Android, as mentioned, over 350,000 devices a day are being activated, which is just tremendous growth.

In terms of breaking out share by device or by market, we don't break out share by device. If you just look, though, at where the distribution relationships and partnerships are, obviously we've got a great presence in the U.S., strong partners in Europe, Japan, Korea. So international is really growing as a component of the overall pie.

In terms of phones versus tablets, Android is relatively early on with tablets, so we have the Honeycomb operating system now which was developed specifically for the devices. We've got some great initial devices like the Motorola Zoom, but as I mentioned earlier in one of the questions, we are seeing just a tremendous amount of innovation in the market, so I think you're going to see a lot more great Android tablet devices soon.

PATRICK PICHETTE: We have time -- we are over time already, so we will take one last question. Before we take the last question, can I just say that for those on the call that may be having trouble accessing our financial slides, we are working on this issue right now. It should have been fixed for most of the users, or will be done very, very shortly. So just to let you know. So Jay, let's take our last question please.

OPERATOR: Heath Terry, Canaccord.

HEATH TERRY, ANALYST, CANACCORD GENUITY: Thanks. Nikesh, you mentioned that video is changing everything in display. Much of the video inventory at YouTube is still going unmonetized. What's limiting that since clearly the demand from advertisers is there? Is there a roadmap you can talk about or a level that you're thinking of in terms of getting YouTube to what you would consider full monetization?

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thanks for the question. I think it's important to understand we monetize video not just on YouTube, but also rich media across the Google display network. So our intent and our hope is to try and monetize video as a format across various publisher partners that we have. So that's our point number one.

In terms of being able to monetize and continuing to grow that, you have to understand there is a value chain that goes through this. We have to make sure that we have the right advertisers. We are excited about this as a medium. We have to make sure that the credit agencies adapt their credits to work with sort of multiple users. They don't -- it's (inaudible) one ad which is going to be used on YouTube with 10 million views. We actually have the ability to personalize and target them a bit more, so the creative industry needs to get involved a little bit more in trying to find creative ways, no pun intended, to be able to target all the users that the advertisers would like to target.

But having said that, it is a process of serving. We have the sales teams in force. We have the technology in place. We have it integrated across the technology chain in terms of our exchanges to our ad serving platforms etc. So we are going down the path, and now we're working with the creative agencies and the most importantly analysis agencies who actually can prove that there is value in shifting some of the dollars from television towards mediums like YouTube and other video sites around the world.

So we're very happy with the progress we are making. We think also the ducks are in a row. We hope, as we continue to see this trend, this trend is going to ship lots and lots more dollars away from what is now traditionally television towards what I call IP-based video delivery.

HEATH TERRY: Great, thank you.

PATRICK PICHETTE: So with that, let me just make two last comments. The first one is, as usual, thank our Googlers -- I mean Jeff and Susan, Nikesh and I kind of look good here giving you these great results with 27% year-over-year growth and so many innovations in so many areas of the Company. It is really the result of our fantastic Googlers working all of the time on all of these areas, so I just want to thank them.

And also, my last closing notes on Jonathan -- everybody commented on Jonathan. He couldn't be here today because it was already planned that he had a vacation with his family, so I'm glad to have Susan and Jeff with us. Clearly, Jonathan's passion for our product is legendary at Google. I don't think that the word is too strongly stated. He loved the tension between the combination of Search and Search monetization. Just to quote him from one of his last times, he said "As Search gets better, it actually creates another huge challenge for us, which is that ads need to keep pace to get better too. Otherwise what would happen is people will click on fewer ads, and well, that" -- to quote him -- "well, that would be bad." So as a Jonathan [isn't] to close the call, it's very obvious that we keep -- we just are immensely thankful for Jonathan's contribution and leadership. We'll keep focused. I know he is going to be overlooking on us to make sure we keep that balance between Search and ads and all the other innovations.

With that, Jay, I will let you close the call. Thank you, everybody, for taking the time this afternoon to listen to the story of Q1. We'll talk to you in Q2.

OPERATOR: That does conclude today's conference. We thank you for your participation.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
goog : Google Inc.
   IN
i8395464 : Internet Search Engines | iint : Internet/Online Services
   NS
ccrm : Customer Relationship Management | c32 : Advertising | c11 : Plans/Strategy | c22 : New Products/Services | ntra : Transcript | c151 : Earnings | c15 : Performance | c31 : Marketing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | uk : United Kingdom | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020110428e74e003s6
  


 HD
 Q4  2010 Google Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
11,488 words
   PD
20 January 2011
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©011 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
OPERATOR: Good day and welcome, everyone, to the Google Inc. fourth-quarter 2010 earnings conference call. This call is being recorded. At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Jane Penner, Senior IR Manager. Please go ahead.

JANE PENNER, SENIOR IR MANAGER, GOOGLE: Good afternoon, everyone, and welcome to today's fourth-quarter and fiscal year 2010 earnings conference call. With us are Eric Schmidt, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board; Larry Page, co-Founder and President, Products; Sergey Brin, co-Founder and President, Technology; Patrick Pichette, Chief Financial Officer; Jonathan Rosenberg, Senior Vice President, Product Management; and Nikesh Arora, Senior Vice President and Chief Business Officer.

   TD
This call is also being webcast from investor.google.com. A replay of the call will be available on our website in a few hours. Now let me quickly cover the Safe Harbor.

Some of the statements we make today may be considered forward-looking, including statements regarding our accepted level of capital expenditures, Google's future and investments in our long-term growth and innovation, and the expected performance of our business. These statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially.

Please note that these forward-looking statements reflect our opinions only of the date of this presentation, and we undertake no obligation to revise or publicly release the results of any revision to these forward-looking statements in light of new information or future events. Please refer to our SEC filings for a more detailed description of the risk factors that may affect our results.

Please note that certain financial measures we use on this call such as operating income and operating margin are also expressed on a non-GAAP basis and have been adjusted to exclude charges related to stock-based compensation. We have also adjusted our net cash provided by operating activities to remove capital expenditures, which we refer to as free cash flow. Our GAAP results and reconciliations of non-GAAP to GAAP measures can be found in our earnings press release.

With that, I will now turn the call over to Eric.

ERIC SCHMIDT, CEO & CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD, GOOGLE: Thank you very much, Jane, and thanks, everybody, for getting on our call. Your time is very valuable. I'm really glad that you all could join us for our quarterly call as reasonably scheduled. We have jumped on the call to talk about the other announcement of this afternoon, which I think everybody is getting a chance to read.

We have had a very strong quarter and a very strong year, and I think, as our results show today, our outlook is very, very bright. Larry and Sergey and I spend a lot of time talking about how to run everything. The last decade, of course, has been fantastic, and we anticipate this will continue. How can we run the Company even better? And just after a long series of conversations, we decided to make some changes in the way we are structuring, the way we actually operate things.

Historically we have always been running the decisions together, and ultimately it adds delay and so forth in the way we make decisions. It is actually better to clarify it. So the proposal, which we have ultimately now, the Board has completely approved is by elevating me and having Larry running things day-to-day, Sergey focusing on the area that he is going to talk about, we think this has will produce even better success for the corporation. And, of course, we are going to do all of this by April.

So Larry, do you want to introduce a little bit about your thoughts?

LARRY PAGE, CO-FOUNDER & PRESIDENT, PRODUCTS, GOOGLE: Well, first, I want to really congratulate Eric. He has done an outstanding job leading Google for the last decade. I don't think when Sergey and I started the Company, we would have imagined -- we could have possibly imagined we would have a better leader for the Company, and we are all in great debt to Eric. And I think the results really speak for themselves. There is no debate about that at all.

And there is really no one else in the universe that could have accomplished what Eric has done. And Eric is really a tremendous leader, and I have learned a ton from him over the years. And I think his advice and efforts going forward as Executive Chairman will be invaluable to me and to the Company as I start this new role.

Google I want to say is just an incredible opportunity. When we started Google, people actually thought we were coming in too late. There were already a lot of other search engines. And the Internet and really people's computing life is really still at the very early stages, and I can not be more excited about moving us forward, and we are really only at the beginning. I just can't wait to get us started.

ERIC SCHMIDT: Thank you, Larry. Sergey, do you want to talk a little bit about what you would like to get done in this new structure?

SERGEY BRIN, CO-FOUNDER & PRESIDENT, TECHNOLOGY, GOOGLE: I would like to first at the outset mention that I have had a great time working together with Larry now for about 15 years and with Eric for about a decade. And both of them have really inspired me and moved me, and I'm looking forward to many more decades of work together.

Now, as we have tried to clarify our respective roles, now I would like to work more on my personal passions, which corresponds of several significant new products that I hope to tell you about in the future. I'm not going to -- I know we have been accused of vaporware just recently in the press and whatnot. So I don't want to repeat that error, and I hope to tell you about them in the future when I'm ready to show you something.

But nonetheless it is really a privilege to work with these two gentlemen to continue to work with them and at this company that I have been really proud to be a part of all this time.

ERIC SCHMIDT: Thank you very much. And as for myself, I'm going to get a chance to work on the things that I am most interested in, taking a more strategic view of things. And I'm going to focus on customers, partners, various government communications, external issues more than the internal issues that I have historically been focusing on. So that is a significant, I think, improvement in the kind of things that I can do with my time.

And I want to say very clearly that I believe Larry is ready. He has been working on this area for a long time. His ideas are very interesting and clever, and it is time for him to have a shot at running this and doing it, and I'm sure he will do a fantastic job.

It is interesting that a decade goes by very fast when you work in a partnership as wonderful as this has been, and I'm quite sure that this partnership will continue. We are friends. We are coworkers. We are computer scientists. We have a common vision. I don't anticipate any material change in any of our strategies or anything. We tend to agree on pretty much everything. But I do believe that as a result of this, we will operate and execute the business even better.

So with that, I thought maybe what we should do is have a few questions before we rush off, and then, Patrick, thank you so much for accommodating us on to your call.

PATRICK PICHETTE, CFO, GOOGLE: It is our pleasure. Jay, if you don't mind, what we will do is we will set up two sets of questions for this afternoon. We will just take a few questions now because we have Larry, Sergey and Eric, and so we will take a few questions. And then after that, we will close that section of the call, let them run back -- go back to work, guys -- and then we will take the regular call as we usually proceed. So, Jay, if I can ask you to give us the instructions to take a couple of questions for Eric, Larry and Sergey.

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). James Mitchell, Goldman Sachs.

JAMES MITCHELL, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Congratulations on the movements, and congratulations on the results. I guess one question I had just stemming from the results rather than from the movements perhaps is when I look at the investments in 111 8th Avenue in New York City, do you feel that Google is now at a point where in order to continue facilitating the growth of the Internet that there will be a land grab for desirable physical locations?

LARRY PAGE: I think our primary reason for purchasing the building there was not the Internet structure there, but rather the office space that we really enjoy using. The Internet tenants are great, well-paying tenants. We appreciate having them there. But that is not the primary reason why we purchased the building.

OPERATOR: Spencer Wang, Credit Suisse.

SPENCER WANG, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Just the big picture questions for Eric. You mentioned that one of your areas of focus will be on government outreach, and it seems like Google has maybe come under a little bit more regulatory scrutiny over the past several years. So I was wondering if you could just talk a little bit about your strategy with regulators to just ensure that Google can continue to expand as necessary?

ERIC SCHMIDT: The simple answer is that we are talking to them. An awful lot of the problems that we have been having are people don't actually understand what we really do, and what we don't do and some of our competitors are assisting in that misinformation.

And so part of our core strategy is literally to communicate. So what we are doing is we're trying to be as transparent and collaborative as possible.

I would tell you very clearly that the regulators have a proper job to do. They are there for a reason, and we respect that. And so far we have been quite successful by just taking the time to get people to understand, and we are sensitive to the close lines where we get too close to something, and we try to stay away from that. So we try to stay well within the safety zone of the way we are operating with respect to the legal issues and the competitive issues. We also argue very strongly that the things we are doing are very pro-competitive, and I genuinely believe that, and I will be telling people a lot of that for a long time I suspect.

OPERATOR: Imran Khan, JPMorgan.

IMRAN KHAN, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Congratulations to everybody. A quick question. Larry, as you become the CEO, I think, which is a very interesting juncture of Google's lifecycle and I think there is a lot of questions that we get from investors that the proliferation of social networking and how the traffic -- more and more traffic the social networking platforms are becoming. So, as Google gets to the next level, how do you think about the real-time search and the social networking platforms becoming (inaudible) and the Web applications and the mobile apps? How do you think Google becomes the point of place that you can send traffic to other places?

ERIC SCHMIDT: Sergey, you have been driving most of this, and maybe Larry, you comment as well.

SERGEY BRIN: Yes, I think you pointed out two important trends, I think. One is the notion of real-time, and the other is the broad notion of social in terms of identity relationships and so forth. And I think both of those are very important to search. In fact, you have seen over the past year or so us roll out functionality along those lines.

First of all, of course, we have the real-time updates now built into our search, which includes Twitter and other sources. You have also seen us deploy Social Search, which allows you to find search results that are related to people who you know and friends of their friends and so forth, and you see those right in the main search results of the Web.

But I think this is really just the tip of the iceberg, and I think there is far more opportunity. We have touched just 1% of the capabilities that could be deployed in that realm, and I think you should expect us to continue to develop those kind of capabilities.

ERIC SCHMIDT: Larry, did you want to add anything to that?

LARRY PAGE: I mean the last part of what Sergey said really resonates with me. I think that there is -- if you think about the next five years of what your life will be like online socially and what kind of things the tools will be able to do, we are only at the very, very early stages of that, and I'm incredibly excited about the possibilities.

ERIC SCHMIDT: Thank you. I think we have time for one more question, and I will just have a final comment.

OPERATOR: Justin Post, Bank of America.

JUSTIN POST, ANALYST, BANK OF AMERICA: We have noticed a lot of changes on the site moving you farther down the purchasing funnel, and we've heard some regulatory pushbacks -- so maybe this is a question for you, Eric -- but also potential some advertiser compliants. So I was just wondering how the changes in your search ad results, are they really driving your revenues and helping drive the strong growth and how are you dealing with advertisers in the regulatory environment on some of those changes that might be replacing some of the functionality of other websites?

ERIC SCHMIDT: There is no question that our extraordinary results are partly coming from algorithmic improvements that we do all the time. Our basic strategy, of course, is to have the right ad in the right spot done exactly right every time, and we do literally billions of these everyday. And so that is the great magic of Google, if you will.

We have looked very, very carefully at how we make the decisions as to which ads go where and so forth, and we are pretty happy with the choice that we have made in terms of ranking ads and so forth. There have been some competitor complaints and so forth of that, and we have done a pretty thorough review. But so far we are pretty happy with it, and we think it will pass the necessary compliants and so forth that people are hearing.

ERIC SCHMIDT: So I think with that, I think we have sort of run -- Patrick is saying we have really run over our time. I really appreciate everybody sort of letting us come in and do this.

I wanted to say to you that it has been a great privilege to be the CEO for 10 years, literally a decade, and a decade is a long time to be a CEO. So I'm very much looking forward to this new role, more strategic role and something where I can work on some new things which I'm excited about. And I'm even more looking forward to working with my literally best friends and partners, Larry and Sergey, and I hope you all understand how powerful this (inaudible) has been and how for us personally and how much it means to us as individuals.

So thank you all, and Patrick, do you want to just sort of takeover?

PATRICK PICHETTE: Absolutely. Thank you so much, Larry, Sergey, Eric, to take the time to join us this afternoon. So with that, what we will do is we are going to jump right into it, and we will go to our more regular conversation. So I will start with my opening remarks on the financials. Jonathan is going to give us his read of the year, and then we will be joined by Nikesh for our Q&A section.

So how else to talk about 2010 and Q4 as a phenomenal ending to a very good year at Google. I mean our incredibly strong performance in Q4 and 2010 overall is really a testimonial to the fundamental trends in the digital economy. Those trends they are fueling huge opportunities for innovation, for growth both at Google, but also in the entire ecosystem. One of these profound trends is the shift from advertising off-line to online, and it continues at quite a rapid clip. And you have seen it fueling growth both in our core search business, but across the board as well. A case in point is revenue growth is in our core accelerated strongly in the second half of 2010, which is really particularly impressive if you think about it, given that in Q4 2009 was itself a very strong quarter.

In additions, investments in our newer businesses, the usual suspects of display, mobile, enterprise, they are also in parallel creating a second powerful growth engine for Google. Jonathan will give you more details on that in a minute. But at a high level, I just want to make it clear that how can we not be happy with the overall performance and trajectories of 2010 and on that basis be excited about our prospects for 2011 and beyond?

So let me turn for the specifics of the performance of the quarter now. Let's go through our results.

Gross revenue, we grew 26% year over year to $8.4 billion. Our Google websites revenue was up 28% year over year to $5.7 billion, and we saw strength across most major geographies and verticals. Our AdSense revenue was up 22% year over year to $2.5 billion, again with continued strength in our Google Display Network. Our other revenue was up 31% to $273 million. Our global aggregate paid click growth was very strong, up 18% year over year and up 11% quarter over quarter. This is really reflecting, as I mentioned, the accelerating shift of off-line to online. Without a doubt, as each year shows, there is more and more holiday shopping happening online. Our aggregate cost per click growth also was pretty healthy up 5% year over year and 4% quarter over quarter. And note that FX had a negative impact on CPC growth year over year although a positive impact quarter over quarter. Remember, too, that this is an aggregate number, and that includes the dot-com and AdSense properties.

If I turn to our geographic performance, the US and the rest of the world are both growing at a very healthy pace, and our results clearly show that. While the UK continued to lag a little bit in the global economic recovery, revenue from the US was up just shy of 30% at 29% to $4.1 billion. And in our earnings slides that you can find on our investor website, you will see that we have broken down our revenue by US, UK and rest of world to show the impact of FX and the benefits from our hedging program. So I encourage you to go to these slides for the exact calculations.

The international revenue accounted for 52% of our revenue up -- or sorry, $4.4 billion and up 25% year over year. And it includes $25 million of benefits from our hedging program, so a relatively small number. Using fixed exchange rates, though, our international revenue would have been roughly $132 million higher year over year. As I said, the UK was a little slower, and it was up 14% year over year to $878 million.

If I turn to expenses, traffic acquisition costs at $2.1 billion or 25% of advertising revenue. Other cost of revenue was $877 million, including stock-based compensation of $45 million. And finally, all operating expenses totaled $2.5 billion, including approximately $351 million in stock-based compensation.

The increase year over year in OpEx was primarily due to our increases in payroll, advertising and promotion spend and professional services. As a result of all of this, our non-GAAP operating profit, which excludes our stock-based compensation, increased to $3.4 billion in Q4, resulting in non-GAAP operating margin of 40%. Our headcount was up approximately 1000 for the quarter, and we ended the year roughly at 24,400 full-time employees.

Our effective tax rate you should note was 19% in Q4, and this reflects the R&D tax credit legislation that passed in December in the US and for which we recognized a full benefit in Q4.

Now let me turn to cash management. OI&E was $160 million per Q4, which reflects the continued good portfolio management performance, and that was offset a little bit by our FAS 133 expenses. For more detail, again, on OI&E, I would just encourage you to refer to the slides of the Company, this call and our IR site. Our operating cash flow was very strong at $3.5 billion for the quarter. CapEx for the fourth quarter was $2.5 billion. I mean obviously significantly above the last quarter, but remember that the majority of this increase was from the purchase of the New York building.

The remaining balance was as usual primarily related to our datacenter and operations. As a reminder, we will continue to make significant CapEx investments, and yet you have another data point to show that they do tend to be lumpy from quarter to quarter depending on when we are able to make these investments.

We are very pleased with our free cash flow, (despite having purchased the office building in New York), just shy of $1 billion, and the office building is obviously a one-time event.

So, with all this being said, Google is in an excellent financial performance for 2010 with incremental revenue for the year of $5.7 billion and operating cash flow around $11 billion. That is a phenomenal performance. Plus, a digital economy that is clearly on high gear. So why in that context you can understand why we are so optimistic, and it is with confidence that we are pursuing an aggressive growth agenda.

We talk about growth agenda means investing. So here's a couple of places where we have decided to invest and will continue to invest. First, we talked about the intense competition, if you remember on our last call, for labor. So, as part of the strategy to answer this challenge, we have announced a compensation change in Q4, which will affect all of our employees. We have made two changes to attract and retain the best talent.

First, we raised all base salaries by 10% across the board. In addition to that, we shifted some compensation from bonus into base salary for non-execs -- and I repeat for non-execs -- which is -- which will result for them in more stable income for our employees. And please note that all those changes are really becoming effective on January 1 of this year, so they are not included into our Q4 results.

Remember, also, that with salary increases come ripple effects such as 401(k)s or employee taxes or other that will actually flow through as well. So if that is for compensation, we have also made and continue to make strategic investments in sales and marketing for both new products but also advertiser acquisition. Product areas like Chrome and Chrome OS, which are such a part of our future, follow our core philosophy of building these open platforms with big optionality and creating infrastructure where everybody on the Web can succeed. We will continue to push on those. But also acquiring advertisers will and continues to remain a top priority.

We are also investing in our long-term infrastructure, including both facilities and our core computing network. As you have seen in Q4, the purchase of the New York City office was not only a wise investment, but a clear commitment to our New York City site and, frankly, a reflection of our optimism about our growth prospects.

Investing in innovation is also about making tough choices, and we have made them throughout 2010 as well by choosing to close products or initiatives that were not working as well as we would have liked or just had run their courses. So, for examples, we did shut down the Wave product, and we have also shut down our consumer channel for Nexus in 2010, and also many other smaller projects that we would not talk usually on the call, but things like GOOG-411. And yes, we are investing aggressively but with discipline. Really, as we mentioned in the last call, pouring a lot of resources on what we call our hockey sticks with a clear focus on long-term ROI. And yes, we will continue to invest heavily, but with the same proven discipline and results that you have witnessed from us over the last few years.

So, in summary, we are incredibly pleased with our performance in 2010, optimistic about our trajectory for 2011 and and beyond. Accordingly we continue to invest aggressively in a bold innovation agenda.

So with that, I will turn it over to Jonathan to speak about the product milestones in Q4 and 2010, and then we will take it over to Q&A. Jonathan, all yours.

JONATHAN ROSENBERG, SVP, PRODUCT MANAGEMENT, GOOGLE: Okay. Well, thanks, Patrick.

So we certainly did have a great year at Google, and I would really like to think some of it stems from the unique way that we manage our product and engineering machine. When we hire product managers, they often come in and they ask me, they say, so how do we measure success at Google? And I always tell them it is simple. At the end of the year, we make a list of all of your successes and your failures. You are then measured on the sum of your successes and by how much you learn from your failures.

So, at the beginning of 2010, one of our concerns was that as we scaled, this approach might lead to our being spread too thin. Instead we thought maybe we needed to put more wood behind fewer arrows. So we made some changes. And I think they address this concern without actually affecting the basic philosophy of how we have always run product engineering at Google.

So let's talk about what we changed. At the beginning of the year, we decided to double down on the core. So that is search and search ads, and I think the financial numbers that you guys are seeing today reflect the fact that that was a success bet.

But behind those numbers is a really relentless stream of new features and product innovations. For example, we made a big effort this year to make search more interactive, and you can see that with Google Instant. And then more recently, we made the previews instant as well. And earlier in the year, we launched new user interfaces for both Web search and image search to make it easier and to make it more intuitive to work with the results after you run a search. And we are also making search more intelligent. We made several changes to results. So now you can see things like a concert schedule or the answers to the questions highlighted right in the snippet.

And we are also now starting to roll out place search. So when we know that you're looking for something that is in the neighborhood like an ice cream shop or something, we will pull reviews, webpages, the address and a photo altogether for you. We also double down on the ad side of the house. In the past year, we have launched several new ad formats which we have told you about -- site links, seller rating ads. Recently we just added this product listing ads with photos and prices. It makes sense that if I'm shopping for something like a coffee maker, it is helpful to see more information in the ad.

But the biggest boost of all came from good old-fashioned ad quality improvements. Q4 was our best quarter in years from a quality standpoint. We launched over 20 updates, which led to gains that were nearly double those that we would normally see in a strong quarter.

So although we have been at this for years, we are still finding lots and lots of ways to make ads better.

The other change in 2010 was that several of our new businesses started to achieve [escape] philosophy. And our philosophy is to encourage lots of innovation, and then we feed the winners and starve the losers. And this creates kind of a Darwinian but sort of Google environment in which new businesses emerge and grow, and in 2010 it is really clear that some new winners started to emerge.

Like display, we now have over 2 million publisher partners. The number of transactions on the DoubleClick Ad Exchange tripled, and publishers who sell their ad space via the exchange are nearly tripling their revenue when the Exchange wins the auction. YouTube revenue more than doubled. We began adding features like live streaming to help partners deliver and ultimately, of course, to monetize content in new ways. Enterprise added impressive customers like the US government's General Services Administration, and we expanded distribution with partnerships like the deal with Softbank in Japan; Android, now activating over 300,000 phones per day. This helped drive a 10X year-over-year increase in the volume of searches from Android devices.

Then finally, in 2010 I think we were more structured in our approach to our business. The product and sales teams are working together more closely than ever, thanks in large part to my buddy here, Nikesh. Patrick's rigor helped us dynamically reallocate resources and, as he mentioned, cancel a few projects, like Wave and Nexus One direct to consumer that were not achieving their goals.

So what does all this mean for 2011? I think you can expect more of the same. We are going to double down again on the core of search and search ads. We are going to feed the 2010 winners -- display, YouTube, enterprise and Android -- and we are going to do it all with even greater financial rigor and cross-functional coordination all over the world.

But I'm also excited about the prospect for a couple of our newest businesses, local and commerce. In local, over 5 million businesses have claimed their Google place pages, and we recently started testing a new ad product, which we call Boost, and that gives businesses a really easy and fast way to promote themselves online and to connect with the people who are searching for them.

In commerce we are investing a lot to close the loop from online to off-line shopping. I think I have mentioned on four different earnings calls in the past couple of years the key to unlocking mobile commerce was to make it easier for people to both search and then to consummate their transaction from their mobile device. Someone on my team actually counted back on the calls, and it was four times. I think as smartphones become ubiquitous and local businesses put their inventory online, I think this is the year where phones will play the big rolling commerce that I have long predicted.

There will be some important differences in 2011. We will invest in hiring even more product managers and engineers. We are going to give them greater autonomy, and we are going to push them to work faster. In fact, we are asking everyone here to do more and to do it faster.

Through the year, we will tally our successes. I'm sure you all will probably remind us of any failures so we can keep learning from them. I hope you all now better understand our sense of optimism from a product perspective for 2011. I'm confident you guys will help us keep track of how this year's product efforts play out on the important scorecard of financial progress.

Thanks a lot and back to Patrick.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thank you, Jonathan. Now Jonathan and I have made a noble attempt on the back of the big announcement of today to keep your attention over the last 10 minutes. So I hope that you will have taken all the notes that you had to. And now what we will do is we will turn it to Jay. Nikesh is joining us, so he is getting set up in his chair with his phone, and we will turn it over to Jay, and we will go through the Q&A section of this call.

Jay, give us the instructions, please.

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Ben Schachter, Macquarie.

BEN SCHACHTER, ANALYST, MACQUARIE: Congratulations on the quarter and the year. Jonathan, I want to ask you a question about mobile and specifically how Google thinks about the differences between tablet users and smartphone users and how those differences are really influencing the high-level view of how you are viewing the overall evolving mobile market? And then Patrick, if you could just address the sales and marketing line, which I think was somewhat unexpectedly high? Thanks.

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: Sure. We can take that in order. I will go with the first question. I think it is probably easier to talk about initially how tablets and smartphones are similar. Right? Both of them are growing at a terrific pace. As is the case with mobile, what we see on these devices is that search usage on the tablets tends to peak on the weekends, and it dips on the weekdays. So it is generally complementary to desktop, which we have talked about before. What does that suggest? Maybe that people are using them more for personal usage as opposed to business.

We do see on tablets the weekend peak is a little bit more pronounced than it is on phones. I think that is probably the case because people pretty much always carry their smartphone during the week. Some of the bigger differences, the tablet users tend to search more for things like news, and they tend to do more shopping-related topics when you compare them to smartphone users. I think there is some anecdotal data that they may convert better, but I have not actually been through all of that in detail. I tend to think that the tablets behave a little bit more like desktop devices than do smartphones because it is a little easier to input information into them like a credit card.

I think the other major difference is the UI approaches are different, apps. Like the Gmail app for the tablet is more designed for the big screen. So I think they are both taking off, and the revenue from tablets, as well as smartphones, reflects that. Patrick?

PATRICK PICHETTE: Alright. I will take the second question. If there is a good proof that we just don't kind of like streamline our lines in terms of expenses but we go opportunistically in a smart move, I think sales and marketing is a great example of that. And then if you think of the last 12 months, what we have clearly shown is how much in high yield is the digital economy?

And when that opportunity shows up, we just needed to jump on it and decide to fuel it. And on the marketing side and even on sales, I mean I will ask Nikesh to give you a bit of color on the sales side. But, on the marketing side, when you have big platforms like Chrome and Chrome OS that can and will be incredibly successful if promoted, why wouldn't you do it now? Why -- I hear from the financial community, the other side, which is, what are you doing with your money? Well, we have great opportunities. Why wouldn't we jump on it with this kind of market? And on the sales side, Nikesh, you could probably give a color commentary as well.

NIKESH ARORA, SVP & CHIEF BUSINESS OFFICER, GOOGLE: Thank you, Patrick. Hi, guys. I think what is important here to understand, we decided to put our foot to the pedal later this year. And there was an area of our customers that advertised we decided to continue to put more focus on, which is the small to medium-sized advertisers. Because that is where a lot of our growth engine is going to come from in the future. And effectively a lot of the sales costs there are advertiser acquisition costs. Because as long as we bring them into our system, they stay there for a while, and they continue to work with us and continue to generate more revenues. And some of the revenue performance you are seeing has been across the small channels, the mid-tier channels, and that investment is already beginning to bear fruit.

OPERATOR: Mark Mahaney, Citi.

MARK MAHANEY, ANALYST, CITI: If I can ask a question on the local advertising play, it sounds like you have got a couple of products you have been working on rolling out for a while. I think you also may have attempted an acquisition intra-quarter. Can you maybe quantify the opportunity for us? Is this something that has always been a part of the buildup plan? Is there something you saw in the last 12 months that really indicated that this was the time to accelerate the efforts against local advertising? And then do you already feel like you have got all the assets now in place, or are you still going to look for more assets in order to have that play viable?

PATRICK PICHETTE: Let me just, as a preamble, we do not talk about M&A. Local has always been part of our strategy. And Nikesh can talk about the initiatives or just about the initiatives we are doing there in terms of the boost in the products that you have or maybe, Jonathan, the Boost products. And just it is one more of the initiatives we have in local. But local is just to kind of give a sense of framework. It is one out of every five searches have some form of local kind of tendency or factor. So it is not kind of a side event for us. Jonathan?

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: Sure. I think we have been very focused on local since going all the way back to maybe my second year when we acquired Keyhole here with Google, which was basically the original company that built Google Earth. And really the idea was that ultimately the Web should be this virtual mirror of the world at all times. And that mirror of the world becomes much more useful when it is more relevant, and it is more relevant to the users when you get everything organized around places in the physical world.

And I think the other thing which has come into play more recently is that technology has made it possible through the use of GPS and smartphones for us to understand where you are. And so I think what we have recognized more recently is that because smartphones have become deployed more aggressively, that we can supply you with relevant information about the places that you are near with the appropriate contextual-oriented search. So if you're at a restaurant, you want to pull up a menu. You don't want just the menu that the waiter handed you. You want the one in there that has the reviews and the picks from your friends.

So I think what has basically changed over the course of the last year is it has become easier for local businesses to identify themselves in context on Google, and it has become easier for us to find out where you are. And then, of course, we have mapped that with Nikesh's team, which is working on selling Boost and Tags and some of the other ad formats that we have developed specifically for local.

OPERATOR: Doug Anmuth, Barclays Capital.

DOUG ANMUTH, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Patrick, can you talk a little bit more about your thoughts simply just around the New York headquarters? I think this is the first time where you have actually really come out and confirmed the purchase. And why do you need to own the New York headquarters rather than getting access to it in some other way? And why is this a good use of capital?

And then secondly, can you just talk just following up on local, discuss whether you really are building out more of a local salesforce in addition to obviously the local products themselves?

PATRICK PICHETTE: I will take the first, and then I will let Nikesh talk about the initiatives we are doing on the local side. We have 2000 employees on-site today in New York. And our business and our engineering center -- it is a big engineering center, by the way, not only a big kind of sales center, but it is a big engineering center.

So if you think of the Eastern hub being that place, with 2000 and growing at the pace at which we are growing, it is actually very difficult to find in New York a place that would accommodate that number of employees in an environment that fits Google's standards and Google's needs. We do not -- I mean we actually believe that living in a tower where there is a very small footprint on a floor to floor is terrible for the Google culture.

So there's very few buildings in New York that actually can accommodate our needs. Replacing that building for us or moving out of there would actually be probably very difficult to find another place and then be prohibitively expensive.

And then finally, it gives us a lot of control over growing into that space. So all of this to say on top of what we believe will be -- is a very good investment. So for all these reasons, coming back to the previous, it is not about carrier hotel owning. It really is about the Googleness. So for all these reasons, I think it did make sense, and we called it a one-time item because it just fitted so well our strategy.

For the local salesforce, I will turn it to Nikesh to give you a bit more details on our strategy.

NIKESH ARORA: I think it is important to understand that local the way you define it actually ends up in three different interpretations. One is we always had local features to our AdWords products. You can always localize your advertising towards users who are in certain areas, certain territories. So you always had the ability to localize.

The other thing we have done in local is the way I think local is sometimes synonymous with smaller advertisers and smaller territories. And towards that end, we have created a more simplistic set of products around Tags and Boost, which is more and more able to those advertisers, they don't have to do a lot of work. Sometimes they don't even have their own website, and that allows them to still participate in the online economy.

And third, we have for the longest of times had partnerships with other companies who have been selling advertising on our behalf to smaller advertisers, be it in small, local areas, or we have been using other partners who will use their salesforce. It is called on smaller advertisers for us. So we are going to use a combination of all these three efforts to continue to pursue our local strategy going forward.

OPERATOR: Brian Pitz, UBS.

BRIAN PITZ, ANALYST, UBS: Patrick, would you give us a rough organic revenue growth rate, excluding acquisitions? And then secondly, a question on ads. Are you guys seeing any competitive share shifts in dollars from search or display towards other social platforms or applications?

PATRICK PICHETTE: So on the second one, I will let Nikesh give you a sense. On the first one, I don't have the breakdown. We don't provide the breakdown. But I can tell you that all of our core properties are growing very well. And not only our core properties, but also our new growth businesses as well. When you look at the numbers for just the Google.com growing year over year, 28%, how can you not be happy with that kind of performance? And so overall we are very pleased with our growth rate of revenue. I will let Nikesh talk about the second piece.

NIKESH ARORA: I think it is important to understand that search for the longest of times has been performance advertising, and so has a large chunk of display been performance advertising. So the newer players you are talking about are sort playing the brand dis play space. So overall, if you look at it, the stronger trend is shift of brand dollars from the off-line world into the online world, and can you shift some of those dollars, sales and marketing dollars, into performance-based advertising? So we are seeing that shift both on our search side, we are seeing that shift on our display side, but also seeing some brand dollars on the search side and some brand dollars on the display side.

So I think it is more than fair to say that right now the bigger trend is the shift from off-line to online, and there has been less of an allocation of shift within the online world. Because all these measures, all these means are measurable, and you are seeing better ROI for these measurable events in both on-performance display and performance search. So that is what the trend is.

OPERATOR: Ross Sandler, RBC Capital Markets.

ROSS SANDLER, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Two questions. First, Patrick, a question on the display business. If you look out and analyze the financial statements for just about any publicly traded ad network out there, these businesses seem to peak out and the operating margins seem to peak out in the 20% to 25% range. Do you think there is anything structurally different about Google's approach in the display business that could allow Google to achieve higher operating margins, or is that just the peak for that kind of business model?

And then, Nikesh, just a quick question on the ROW acceleration. So 31% year over year. Can you talk a little bit about which regions that is coming from, or is it across the board, and is there any acceleration from new revenue areas like display, or is it just the core search business?

PATRICK PICHETTE: On the first one, let me answer the display, and then I will let Nikesh talk about the performance worldwide.

I think in display the most fundamental issue is, if you are on your own network or if you're optimizing for other's network and participating in others network. So if you think of YouTube, it is our own property, and therefore, you have a completely different set of economics. And so you just got to make sure you don't compare apples and oranges. So one obviously has a much higher margin than the other. And the question then is the mix. So if you think of us in display where we have the whole suite of services from what used to be Teracent and all the other pieces, then you have the mix of properties, and that is how you have to think about it.

In terms of geographic split and performance, I will let -- it is a fantastic story. So why don't I let Nikesh give you the color commentary on it.

NIKESH ARORA: Just before this adding to what Patrick said on the display side, I think it is also important to understand the contribution of the Ad Exchange. It basically allows you to bring buyers and sellers together, and we are seeing a serious uplift for people who are participating on the Ad Exchange in terms of revenues.

So, you know, whilst your traditional display business you might be seeing margin profiles are different -- and I cannot predict future margin profiles -- but clearly there is an uplift and a benefit to advertisers who participate in the exchange. So that has also been beneficial. (multiple speakers)

PATRICK PICHETTE: Put it differently, we have three sources, Nikesh, because you have to add the Ad Exchange on top.

NIKESH ARORA: Yes. So, in terms of the sort of rest of the world performance, I think there are some things notable this quarter in addition to our usual stalwarts where the US continues to be strong and the rest of the world is strong. Germany has maintained its strength because of its economic development, which has been different from the rest of Europe. So that has showed up in our results as well. I'm very particularly excited about some of the turnaround we have achieved in Japan because we have been putting in a concerted effort over the last many months to try and put an aggressive foot out in the marketplace in terms of bringing in more partners, more advertisers and generally upgrading the entire effort in Japan from our side. So we are seeing the results of that.

In addition to that, some of the commodity markets, markets where commodities are strong -- Brazil, Australia, some of those -- have been strong in general. The UK continues to be weak, as you noticed. But that is a very strong market for us; it is a big market for us as well.

PATRICK PICHETTE: In closing on that topic, I think it is worth noting, if you do your financial math and you move rest of world into constant FX, so if you take out the fact that we add crosswinds year over year, in fact, our growth rate for rest of world is over 30%. It is 31%. So, again, very good momentum there.

OPERATOR: Scott Devitt, Morgan Stanley.

SCOTT DEVITT, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Paid click growth on a percentage basis was the highest rate in two years. You mentioned a few things on the call -- better ads, better targeting, even local monetization. I was just wondering to what extent some other factors came into play as well, particularly Google Instant and the rollout of that product, as well as the incremental nature of smartphone and tablet queries?

PATRICK PICHETTE: Okay. So I think that for paid click growth, you really have to look at a couple of factors. I just want to start by debunking a myth on Google Instant. Everybody seems to have -- there is kind of a buzz out there that Google Instant is the driver for a lot of the revenue growth. And, in fact, Google Instant is neutral. It is not making any significant contribution to our revenue growth.

What is really making the contribution is that there is really our growth is driven by three interdependent drivers that are all acting and fielding together. One is clearly the strength of the economic recovery and the consumer shift online. And you can look ever since Thanksgiving and you have seen it from external sources as well, people have moved online. They are spending a lot of time shopping online, looking for coupons.

So the behavior is strong economic recovery, which brings a lot more auctions -- a lot more participants into the auctions because they want to be where the users are.

In addition to that, we have a second compounding factor pounding on it, which is platforms are changing. The use of mobile phones, iPads, you know instant search, too, but also GAO. The fact that you get each instant location. You can get coupons. All these things from a platform perspective are driving it on top of it.

And then finally, it is true that Jonathan's team's fantastic job at making great ads tuning and monetization like the VizURL -- and, Jonathan, you may want to take a second to talk about this URL -- it is those factors that are really driving the CPC growth and the click-through rate growth rather than instant search.

So I just want to be clear because I know there is a rumor on the street running that it's all about instant search. And instant search is about the user. It is people spending 10% faster. That is a huge number, 10%, and that is why we did instant search. So maybe VizURL is a good example that you want to talk about, Jonathan.

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: Yes, sure. I guess other than the ad's quality improvements, which I can cover in a second, I think the only other area that Patrick did not cover would basically just be the new ad formats, all of which are boosting click through rates. And I mentioned those in my prepared remarks, the product listing ads more, recently offer ads, coupon-based ads. The seller ratings, which we have also launched, have significant impact in click-through rates, as low as does site link.

But I think that probably the most significant thing in terms of what impacted the whole ad area this quarter was this concept that we call visible URL. And basically what we did was on the top ads we moved the advertiser's URL down to its own separate line below the creative rather than having it be part of the creative. And that obviously made it easier for people to see where they will go if they click. It is actually a little bit of an interesting story. I will give you some of the background on this because I think this is by far the most significant change that we have from an ad's quality perspective in a very long time.

It turned out early in the quarter some of the engineers in Japan noticed that it was really hard to recreate it because we actually had the ad's URL, which was in Latin characters mixed in with the ad creative, which was in Kanji. And it did not really take brilliant research to figure out that human perception gets really confused when characters switch like that in the middle of a sentence. People just sort of skip the whole sentence. And if they skip something, that is sort of really bad when that sentence is a text ad.

So we ran this experiment in Japan, and we moved the URL down to its own line, and click-through rates went up dramatically. So we launched that feature pretty expeditiously in, I think, Japan, China, Korea and Russia. And then what happens is the engineers kind of said, well, hey, just for fun, let's try that in the rest of the world. And we actually did not expect so much because we did not have the same dynamic of Latin characters versus Kanji, but it turned out that people skipped sentences with long unusual words in it. So people were tuning out that line, and we quickly launched this feature globally. It was one of the fastest things that we ever launched after the ad testing. I believe we launched it right around Thanksgiving. And that had a very significant change in the clicks that we saw in the course of the quarter.

PATRICK PICHETTE: So just to close on that, just to kind of say, it is -- and I know that Jonathan has used that trumpet a number of times in the past -- but it just continues to illustrate how much more innovation there is left in both formats and in just all of the things that we do in terms of innovation in the ad space.

OPERATOR: Jeetil Patel, Deutsche Bank.

JEETIL PATEL, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: If we look at your the revenue line from a customer base standpoint whether it is Fortune 500 or Ad Age 100 versus Internet pure-play endemics, and then the small to medium-sized business category, I guess the SMB category was weaker as opposed to during the credit crisis and had a hard time coming back. I'm curious as to your thoughts as to how it is coming back today? Do you think there is a different way of approaching that SMB market as you look ahead into this year and going forward in terms of products or maybe ways to help drive leads or sales for that segment of the market?

PATRICK PICHETTE: I will let Nikesh answer that question. Just one point of clarification on your statement, though. And during the recession a couple of years ago, I think you mentioned that we thought that SMBs were kind of going down. And in fact, Nikesh will clarify that, they were going the other way. So Nikesh, I will leave it to you to answer the question.

NIKESH ARORA: I think the important thing to understand is that we are seeing such a disproportionate amount of strength from the very large advertisers across the board. Because effectively what is happened over the years is that they have gone out and really strengthened their e-commerce offerings. They have gotten their act together. They have got all the logistics in place. Given that this was the quarter of Christmas and Thanksgiving, you saw tremendous amounts of strength from large advertisers wanting to play against the pure-play Internet players.

Now, in addition to that, what has also happened is we have put in efforts over the last six months on the SMB and midmarket side. On the midmarket side, we have basically gone ahead and adopted a higher touch strategy, i.e. we spent more time on the phone with our customers. We even go and visit some of our mid-tier customers because to be fair over the years they have grown to be larger mid-tier customers than they used to be in the past. So we have put in sort of a conscious higher touch strategy.

And last but not least, with the smaller advertisers, we are working very closely with our product team and Jonathan and his team to try and look at various systemic and algorithmic improvements we can make working with them in large direct marketing campaigns where we can continue to reduce churn in that area and continue to acquire more, which is related to the earlier comment on slightly higher sales spending on trying to acquire smaller advertisers. So we have that source across the board, across all three categories. We don't think that effort is done and fully over with.

JEETIL PATEL: Do you think the business model or pricing model has to be different there whether it is percentage of sales or some other kind of approach to going after the spend in that segment?

PATRICK PICHETTE: I think to be fair, if you look at some of the simplification we have done on the AdWords side on our local products, which is another way of thinking about smaller advertisers, that is a way to create a simpler product for them where they don't have to put in a lot more effort or we have things like keyword less ads so they don't have to go ahead and work towards creating keywords or we have to go out -- on the display side, we have got contextual targeting where we can create ad groups very, very quickly.

So we may continue to make product improvements which allow things to become more and more simple so advertisers can go and do their daily business as opposed to spend time understanding more complicated stuff on our side. So yes, you are right. They are different, simpler products we create for them which has slightly different pricing so that they can continue to participate in the online economy.

OPERATOR: Jason Maynard, Wells Fargo Securities.

JASON MAYNARD, ANALYST, WELLS FARGO SECURITIES: I had a question just on the mobile business. Last quarter obviously saw some increased momentum. I'm curious just from a pricing perspective what you're starting to see from advertisers, and what kind of progress did you see over the last 90 days? And maybe more importantly, as NFC starts to become more prevalent in smartphones, I mean how do you think that changes the dynamic in terms of what type of effective monetization you are going to see from the local commerce side?

PATRICK PICHETTE: So let me give you just a few statistics to continue to keep the context. Mobile search grew 4 times on mobile devices with four Web browsers in the last year. So there is no doubt that this market is just absolutely cranking. And there is a lot of work -- and I will let Jonathan talk about it -- about how ad formats are still kind of nascent and building both on the display side and on the regular side, and we see a lot of upside.

Jonathan, you probably want to cover those.

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: Yes. You know we don't really actually break out the details in terms of the exact differences. Certainly the click-to-call ads are generating millions of calls every month. A lot of advertisers are running these campaigns. I think one you can see if you try it is DirecTV.

We did launch a call only option where the only clickable link in the ad is actually a phone number, which not surprisingly substantially increases the click-through rates on mobile devices. And we have extended some of the desktop formats pretty successfully to mobile. Site links is one. If you try a query on Oakley, you will see one. If you try seller ratings on something like running shoes. So I think there is a lot more to learn there. But the advertisers are very excited and engaged.

At the moment I don't have any specific comments on NFC, other than to go back to the statements that I made in previous calls, which is when people are completing transactions with these devices, it becomes much more trackable and obviously significantly more valuable.

OPERATOR: Steve Weinstein, Pacific Crest.

STEVE WEINSTEIN, ANALYST, PACIFIC CREST: First, you commented that you were going to be shifting more compensation to base pay from bonus. I was wondering if you could let us know what the ratio had been historically as far as those two components of comp?

And then finally, obviously the acceleration in all the metrics is pretty exciting and pretty positive for the outlook. I was wondering if you could help us understand, though, how much acceleration is happening within the core business and how much of the acceleration is maybe some of the newer businesses really starting to get some scale and maybe tipping the overall momentum in the business?

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thank you for the question on compensation, first. As I said, we raised all salaries. So if you think of financial modeling for a second, all salaries have been raised 10% across-the-board January 1. And that has a ripple effect on the kind of ripple effect of the employee taxes, 401(k)s and all the rest of the benefits.

It will also impact obviously everybody that we will bring on this year as well. So, as we bring in new people, they are costing us now slightly more.

In addition to that, what we have done is part of the bonus is kind of calculated. Without giving you the exact number, we had two components to our annual bonus, one which is a company multiplier and one which is an individual multiplier. And what we have done for the non-execs -- because we want execs to actually continue to be treated differently, the non-execs are treated in that what used to be the Company multiplier, which they did not really have a lot of influence on, we shifted over to base pay. And their individual multiplier component of the bonus continues to be a very directly involved into their calculation of their personal bonus.

So by shifting that Company multiplier, which they did not have a lot of influence on, it just moves it into more predictable cash flows for them all through the year rather than waiting for the end of the year. That was the rationale for doing it.

In terms of revenue growth, I mean last quarter we gave two indication points on display, on mobile. We have talked about the fact that our core -- if you look at our enterprise business of 30 million users, 3 million businesses on apps, the kind of magnitudes of numbers we are talking about in each of our growth areas whether it be mobile, whether it be Android, whether it be YouTube, where we continue to have YouTube, right? I mean to give you a snippet -- YouTube's revenue more than doubled in 2010.

So that is why we are optimistic across the board, and that is why we are very kind of open about the fact when you have such a digital economy running in high gear, why don't you take the opportunity to invest at the time where it is actually transforming itself, and that is what we are doing. And we are delighted, in fact, to continue to push hard on that. And that's what you see also in sales and marketing.

So thanks for your question.

With that, let me reiterate. So I hope I got your attention back because the front end of this conversation got totally sideswiped by the big three of you guys showing up and taking over our seats and phones, but a phenomenal year-end to what has been a terrific year. I have to thank all of our Googlers. They do an amazing job everyday. It looks easy when I show up with Jonathan and Nikesh and talk about these fantastic results, but our Googlers do an amazing job all around the world and so do our partners. And so to them, thank you so much for your fantastic efforts in 2010. We are just set up for a fantastic 2011, again.

With that, I will let Jay close to call.

OPERATOR: That does conclude today's conference. We thank you for your participation.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
goog : Google Inc.
   IN
ismart : Smart Phones | i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i3441 : Telecommunications Equipment | i34411 : Mobile Communications Equipment | i3454 : Electronic Consumer Goods | i7902 : Telecommunications | icellph : Cellular/Mobile Phones | icnp : Consumer Products | idurhg : Durable Household Products | ielec : Electronics | ihandaps : Handheld Electronic Devices | ihome : Home Electronics/Appliances | i8395464 : Internet Search Engines | iint : Internet/Online Services
   NS
c11 : Plans/Strategy | c15 : Performance | c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | c32 : Advertising | c31 : Marketing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | uk : United Kingdom | nyc : New York City | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | use : Northeast U.S. | usny : New York | weurz : Western Europe
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020110203e71k001e2
  


 HD
 Q3  2010 Google Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
10,756 words
   PD
14 October 2010
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©010 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
OPERATOR: Good day and welcome, everyone, to the Google Inc. third-quarter 2010 earnings conference call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Ms. Jane Penner, Senior Manager, Investor Relations. Please go ahead, ma'am.

JANE PENNER, IR, GOOGLE: Good afternoon, everyone, and welcome to today's third-quarter 2010 earnings conference call. With us are Patrick Pichette, Chief Financial Officer; Jonathan Rosenberg, Senior Vice President, Product Management; and Nikesh Arora, President Global Sales Operations and Business Development.

   TD
First, Jonathan and Patrick will provide us with their thoughts on the quarter, then Nikesh will join Patrick and Jonathan to answer your questions.

Also, as you know, we recently began distributing our earnings release exclusively through our investor relations website located at investor.google.com. So please refer to our IR website for our earnings releases, as well as supplementary slides that accompany the call.

This call is also being webcast from investor.google.com. A replay of the call will be available on our website in a few hours.

Now let me quickly cover the Safe Harbor. Some of the statements we make today may be considered forward looking, including statements regarding Google's future and investments in our long-term growth and innovation, the expected performance of our business, and our expected level of capital expenditures. These statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially.

Please note that these forward-looking statements reflect our opinions only as of the date of this presentation, and we undertake no obligation to revise or publicly release the results of any revision to these forward-looking statements in light of new information or future events. Please refer to our SEC filings for a more detailed description of the risk factors that may affect our results.

Please note that certain financial measures we use on this call, such as operating income and operating margin, are also expressed on a non-GAAP basis and have been adjusted to exclude charges relating to stock-based compensation. We have also adjusted our net cash provided by operating activities to remove capital expenditures, which we refer to as free cash flow. Our GAAP results and reconciliations of non-GAAP to GAAP measures can be found in our earnings press release.

With that, I will now turn the call over to Patrick.

PATRICK PICHETTE, SVP, CFO, GOOGLE: Thank you, Jane. Good afternoon, everyone, and thank you for joining us. As Jane mentioned, Jonathan and I will begin with our prepared remarks, and then Nikesh will join us for Q-and-A.

In addition, and as a bit of a surprise, we may actually have Eric join us for the first 30 minutes of Q-and-A before he has to run to a plane.

So, let me start by giving you some general thoughts before I get into the details of our financial performance for Q3. At the highest level, we are very pleased with our Q3 results, and it's clear that the digital economy continues to grow rapidly, a relentless trend that continues to drive continued growth in both our core business, core search and creating market, and also for fueling momentum in our newer businesses.

Our Q3 results clearly reflect this phenomenon that is our continued strong growth in our core business and continued very strong growth in our emerging businesses year over year. And indeed, we saw strength in every major product area in Q3 -- that is search, display, mobile, as well apps enterprise.

And when I say our newer businesses are seeing great momentum, I really mean it. And in that, Jonathan will back that statement up with some hard facts in a few minutes. So stay tuned for the details.

Now let's turn to specific of our performance in the quarter from a financial perspectives. Let's move quickly through the results.

Gross revenue grew 23% year over year to $7.3 billion. Our Google website revenue was up 22% year over year to $4.8 billion, which strength, as I mentioned, across most major geographies and verticals. Our AdSense revenue was up 22% year over year to $2.2 billion, again reflecting continued strength in our Google display network.

Our other revenue was up 35% year over year to $254 million, down sequentially, reflecting the end of our direct-to-consumer sale of the Nexus One.

Our global aggregate paid-click growth remained healthy, up 16% year over year and also up 4% quarter over quarter. Aggregate cost-per-click growth was up 3% year over year and 2% quarter over quarter. Should note that the FX had a negative impact on CPC growth year over year, but the impact for quarter over quarter was quite neutral. Remember, too, that this is an aggregate number which includes both Google.com and our AdSense properties.

So now, turning to our geographic performance, the U.S. and rest of world are growing at a healthy pace, as our results reflect, but also while the UK continues to lag a little bit in the economic recovery, again seen in our results.

Revenue from the U.S. was up 26% year over year to two -- $3.5 billion, and in our earnings slides, which you can find on our investor relations website, you'll see that we've broken down our revenue by U.S., UK, and rest of world to show you the impact of FX and the benefits from our hedging programs. So please refer to those slides for the exact calculations.

International revenues accounted for 52% of our total revenue, or $3.8 billion, up 20% year over year, which includes an $89 million benefit from our hedging programs, and that compares to a $39 million benefit for Q3 of last year.

If we used fixed exchange rates, our international revenues would've been roughly $169 million higher year over year.

The UK was up 10% year over year to $840 million, but actually if using a fixed exchange rate, that number would've been just shy of 20%.

So now, let me turn to expenses. Our traffic acquisition costs were $1.8 billion, or 26% of total advertising revenue, for this quarter. Other cost of revenue was $747 million, including stock-based compensation of $8 million. And finally, all other operating expenses totaled $2.2 billion, including approximately $372 million of stock-based compensation.

The increase year over year in OpEx was primarily due to increase in payroll, professional services, and advertising and promotional spend. So, as a result of all this, our non-GAAP operating profit, which excludes the stock-based compensation, increased to $2.9 billion in Q3, resulting in our non-GAAP operating margin of 40.2%, essentially the same as last year.

Headcount was up approximately 1,500 versus Q2, and we ended the quarter with approximately 23,300 full-time employees, of which about 300 came from acquisitions.

Our effective tax rate for the quarter was 20%, down from 24% in Q2, and because -- this is mostly because we released certain tax reserves as a result of the settlement of our 2005-2006 tax audits, which are now completed.

Let me now turn to cash management. In the line other income and expenses, it was $167 million for Q3, which includes good progress on our portfolio management performance, although that was slightly offset somewhat by the impact of our hedging expenses associated with FAS 133. For more details on OI&E, again please refer to the slides that accompany this call on our investor website.

Operating cash flow, very strong for the quarter at $2.9 billion. CapEx for the quarter was $757 million, again mostly primarily related to our data center operations, and as a reminder, we continue to make significant investment in CapEx, and these have shown to be quite lumpy from quarter to quarter, depending on when we are able to make these investments. So, in the end, free cash flow was also very good at $2.1 billion.

Before I close, I want to say a few words about how we are continuing to grow the business for the long term. And when I say the long term, we really mean not the next quarter and the following quarter, but we are thinking about the next five to 10 years.

Looking ahead, we continue to see tremendous opportunity in our agenda in both our core and in our emerging businesses. So simply put, we're on this growth agenda at full throttle.

We're doing it largely in two ways, if you think about it -- continue to invest heavily in people and also in product. In people, it's a pretty simple story. The explosive growth in the digital economy that we're experiencing, it's really created a war for talent in our industry, the digital economy, and one that is quite out of sync with what's happening in the rest of the economy. So, we believe this trend is only accelerated in the next 18 months and will continue to accelerate.

So in the context of that, we've stepped up our hiring machine, and we are currently exploring how we can continue to attract and retain the very best people in this exceptionally competitive environment. So we strongly believe that the difference between the winners and the losers in our industry will be, to a large extent, determined by who we can attract and who we can retain, the best talent.

So to that end, we're incredibly proud to have attracted approximately 1,500 people to join Google in Q3, the majority in engineering and sales once again.

On the product side, our goal continues to be to develop truly innovative products that leverage computer science to solve these incredible problems that we tackle and offer, obviously, significant ROI across a number of very large growth opportunities.

As I mentioned, Jonathan in a few minutes will be speaking of this great momentum our products are experiencing, and as always, we are investing with discipline following the Google tradition of being generous but frugal.

So in summary, very pleased with our performance of Q3 across revenue, margins, cash flow, and we plan to continue to attract, hire, retain the very best talent in the world, wherever they are, to fuel our innovation agenda.

Now is the moment for me to turn the call over to Jonathan, which usually means that my number parts is over. But today, I've actually asked Jonathan to share with you, and let me emphasize, on a one-time basis, a few product-specific metrics that I think everybody will be very interested to hear. And as a CFO, you know, I am usually the official buzz killer, so I need to make it very clear that we will not be updating these numbers going forward. We are merely sharing them with you as a proof point of the great momentum we are experiencing in our emerging businesses. And with that, let me turn it to Jonathan.

JONATHAN ROSENBERG, SVP PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT, GOOGLE: Okay, thanks, Patrick. So, I think you guys can see from the financial numbers, we've got tremendous momentum in the core business.

But in these emerging businesses, you guys basically have to invoke your Jedi guesstimation skills to try to figure out what's going on. So today, with Patrick's permission, I hope to shed a bit more light on these businesses with some numbers that we've not shared before.

But let me start with the core. Search is more important than ever. The Internet, as you guys know, continues to explode. There's lots more websites, there's more videos, there's more images, there's more books and news. All this stuff is coming online.

And at the same time, more people are coming online, too, and what do these people do when they get online? The first thing they usually do is search. So, search is still at the heart of the Web, and with all of this new content coming online, doing search well is even harder than ever. I actually believe search remains one of the most challenging computer science problems of our generation, and probably the next one as well.

This is why we are so incredibly proud of Google Instant. Many of you guys speculated that we launched Instant to make more money. Well, let me tell you, that's simply not the case. We launched Instant because it's so much better for the user. In fact, from a revenue standpoint, its impact has been very minimal, and from a resource standpoint, it's actually pretty expensive.

So why did we do it? We believe from a user standpoint, Instant is outstanding, and the data that we're seeing actually bears this out. We took something that no one thought was a problem and we created something that once you use it, you can't recall how you lived without it before. It saves about two seconds to five seconds per search, and users absolutely love it.

The percentage of people who select Instant results before they finish their quarry is steadily rising. So, in other words, that means the more they use it, the more they like it.

So let me be clear that Instant wasn't based on a narrow financial calculation. We launched it because we could and because it's great for our users, as we've always said.

Of course, I know it's an earnings call, so let me be clear on another point. We do, in fact, care about money, and search is still the most monetizable moment on the web. And as search gets better, our ads have to keep pace.

The good news is they are. It turns out we also have a lot of great momentum with AdWords, and this is particularly true with the new ad formats. On past calls, I've talked about making ads more useful with the new formats like site links and ads with seller ratings and product listing ads, which we think -- which we can see now are starting to have a real impact. These ads appear on more than 10% of the queries where we show ads, and people like them. We see this because clickthrough rates are up for some formats as much as 10% end up more than 30% on some others.

We're also seeing great momentum in our newer businesses. And this is where Patrick is letting me give you some big numbers. So I hope you find them useful. The numbers all begin with the letter B, and remember, as I often remind my team at Google, 1 billion is 1,000 million.

So, first big number. 2.5 billion. As in display is on an annualized run rate of over $2.5 billion. So that's non-text display, meaning it doesn't count text ads running on our network. What it does count is YouTube ads, non-text ads on the Google Display Network, and, of course, on the DoubleClick platform.

So you guys often ask me, Jonathan, where is the next multibillion-dollar business after search? There is your answer. It's display and it's already here, clocking in at over a $2.5 billion run rate.

So clearly, we are firing on all cylinders in display. The advertisers are running great branding campaigns; the Ad Exchange is taking off. We're partnering very well with agencies, and of course, more publishers are making more money. And if you want to know more on the display front, Nikesh, who is here, is passionate about this business. He's made enormous strides with the sales force and clients, which I'm sure he'll be happy to talk to you guys about in the Q-and-A.

So, second big number. 2 billion, as in YouTube is monetizing over 2 billion views per week. That's up over 50% year over year, and when you think about that growth, it's important because the RPMs are really strong on YouTube.

We've just launched some new ad formats called TrueView, where the viewers get to choose which commercials to watch or they can even skip watching the ad altogether. It turns out when advertisers only pay for the commercials people watch, we discover the ads are a lot more valuable to advertisers when they're only paying for viewers who've actually chosen to watch them.

Finally, third big number -- 1 billion. Mobile is on an annualized run rate of over $1 billion. This means that people who are accessing our products and services through their mobile phones are adding $1 billion annually to our existing revenue streams.

Clearly, this is the future of search in the Internet -- more people in more countries coming online from these smart phones. Our mobile search queries have grown five times over the past couple of years, and of course, a lot more of those queries are now coming from Android phones.

So, there are the facts that Patrick has let me say just this once. Non-text display, $2.5 billion run rate; YouTube, 2 billion monetized views per week; and mobile, over $1 billion added to our business. Patrick, maybe I'll adlib on one more fact here without asking you. You should know, all these businesses are growing. So, I hope this gives all of you a sense of why we are so excited about the incredible emerging businesses at Google, and with that, I'll take it back to Patrick.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thank you, Jonathan. Before we take your questions, I just want to add one fact regarding the new disclosures Jonathan just give you.

Obviously, this information reflects our revenues from two different angles of our business, and with it, we recognize in some cases some small overlaps. So, for example, the AdMob revenues are obviously included both in the mobile number because it's a mobile product and in display because it's also a display product. So these are very small, but I wish to just clarify it out for everybody.

So, with that in mind, what I'd like to do is turn it over to Connie to open -- and we have Eric with us. So, the may is now an actual. Eric is with us. He's got 20 to 30 minutes, then he is running for a plane, so delighted to have you with us, Eric, and what I'll do is I'll turn it to Connie for the Q-and-A questions period. Thank you.

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). James Mitchell, Goldman Sachs.

JAMES MITCHELL, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: I'll ask two separate questions, if I may. First one, if I look at your paid lead growth, it's been remarkably consistent in not decelerating. I think it was 4% sequentially in the third quarter of 2008, 4% sequentially in the third quarter of 2009, and then 4% sequentially in the third quarter of 2010. Is that because your query growth is also fairly consistent or are you supplementing query growth with monetization initiatives that increase paid lead take-up?

And then, secondly and separately, thank you extremely much for disclosing the billions in terms of mobile and display advertising. But within the $2.5 billion-plus of display advertising, how do you account for advertisers spending through the DoubleClick Ad Exchange? Is that on a gross or net basis? Thank you.

ERIC SCHMIDT, CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD, CEO, GOOGLE: I'll try to take the first question. Certainly, the highest correlation between ad clicks and anything else is query growth. So, that's going to certainly by far dwarf any other factor.

I think the other factors that we are seeing is that the new formats that we have, which I'd mentioned, certainly drive click growth as well, and I mentioned that those formats appear on 10% of the queries. If you try some of those, like Halloween costumes, you'll see that they make the ads much more compelling, as do things like merchant ratings, if you type in laser printers. So, by improving the ad formats, we are increasing the relative number of clicks because the clickthrough rates go up.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Great. On the other one, the Ad Exchange is included in -- so if you think of the elements, the Ad Exchange, the DoubleClick platforms, all these are included in display, and it's done on a gross basis.

Thank you for your question. Let's go to the next question, Connie.

OPERATOR: Spencer Wang, Credit Suisse.

SPENCER WANG, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: I guess, since you guys are sharing some numbers this time, I was just wondering if we could just delve into the YouTube numbers a little bit. Of the 2 billion views, Jonathan, I was wondering what -- roughly what percentage of total views is that currently?

And then, you guys have talked in the past about getting closer and closer to profitability. I was wondering if you could just give a sense of where you are with respect to profitability as well. Thank you.

PATRICK PICHETTE: So on profitability, let me jump on that one first, which is we have not made any comments on it. You will remember we talked about it a long time ago because there was so much distortion in the market. We just thought it was okay to kind of set the clocks properly, but since then we have not and will not comment on it.

On the billions (multiple speakers)

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: This is Jonathan. There's basically two points that we've given that you can use to connect those dots. We've said that traffic over -- that we have over 24 hours of video uploaded every minute and over 2 billion views per day. When you couple that with the 2 million monetized views per week, I think you can get to the answer that you're looking for.

OPERATOR: Imran Khan, JPMorgan Chase & Co..

IMRAN KHAN, ANALYST, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: Thank you very much for taking my questions. I have a question for Eric, as he is on the call, and then a follow-up housekeeping question.

So, Eric, I think the two big trends from the Internet, obviously the web is becoming more social and real-time. So, as the web becomes more social and real-time, how does Google compete in that world in terms of real-time search market and how does it impact your business?

And secondly, on the mobile trend, obviously you have this Apple ecosystem with Apple applications, and people are going directly to applications, and how does that impact Google's business model over the long term?

And the housekeeping question, near-term question, is the tax rate was 20% on the quarter. Is there anything specific in this quarter? How should we think about the tax rate? Thank you.

ERIC SCHMIDT: Imran, let me do your questions. There's two separate questions for me.

With respect to social and real-time, we use complex signals to do ranking, and over time we will add additional social, if you will, ranking clues. Fundamentally, we want to make search more personal, and as we get more information about who your friends are, we can make the search that much better.

We are quite convinced that that produces a better search result for people who choose to give us that information. For people who want to continue to do what is generally known as anonymous search, that's also possible.

So one of the ways to think about that is that we want users to be more logged in to Google. The more logged in they are, the more likely we are to provide them not only the social information but the other information.

You also asked about real-time. We already have significant feeds from real-time information providers. We do -- we have a real-time index, which of course is very, very successful for us. You can see that whenever anything interesting happens, it's already right there in Google. But for example, we use Twitter as a real-time source of information, so if you search for almost anything you'll see the Twitter feeds now as part of universal search.

Could you repeat the second part of your question for me?

IMRAN KHAN: Second one was, Eric, on the mobile front, we are seeing explosion on application on mobile platforms. So does that impact your search volume? As people go directly to the vendors and to the app, it seems like -- you know, Amazon talking about $1 billion sellthrough coming from mobile devices. How does that impact Google's business long term?

ERIC SCHMIDT: Doesn't seem to. This is one of those sort of worrywart questions that we get all the time, that the success of one thing, could that impinge on something else, and in fact the rising tide lifts all boats.

And I would say that, again, what I hear is this sort of presumption that it's a zero sum game, and that one wins and another one loses. What's really happening is that all of the companies that are driving the web and web applications are all doing really well. People are moving from offline to online, and in the course of doing that, they're using these systems more. They are searching more, using apps more, et cetera.

Now from our perspective, you have this phenomenal success of Android, which is well past anything that I had ever hoped for, and looks like it's on its way to being a huge, huge success with the number of partners, number of devices, an open model for access, lots and lots of innovation, more dynamic, more competition than in any other part of the platform. They are up to 90,000 applications on Android, growing very, very fast, and those applications, of course, have search services inside of them. So, we don't see them as a negative. We see both as very strongly positive.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Let me go back then, Imran, to the tax question. We did get a one-time benefit this quarter on the tax side, and it is related. As the statutes expire for 2005 and 2006, all of our taxes are now closed, and in doing so, then we had an opportunity to reverse a set of provisions that we had taken that we ultimately didn't have to take. So, you can see the tax rate this quarter is a bit of an anomaly again.

IMRAN KHAN: Thank you, Patrick.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thank you for your question. Connie, let's go to the next question, please.

OPERATOR: Justin Post, BofA Merrill Lynch.

JUSTIN POST, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Eric, while we have you, I want to get back into mobile. Just -- when you think about Android as an operating system, how does that proprietary to Google when you think about your search services? Does that give you an advantage over other phones for some of your services and does the phone operate better when you're using Google services?

And then, secondly, I think you were quoted in an article saying maybe someday Google could make $10 per phone. Would you see that as mostly advertising and is that number right as something you did say? Thank you.

ERIC SCHMIDT: The latter one, I made out of thin air, so we don't really have a notion of exactly what it is, but it's probably pretty big.

So, one way to think about Android is that it's probably the largest single platform play available in the market today. Because it's a platform for computation, for location, for everything that you can do with the new and most popular set of computing devices that are emerging.

That market is larger than the PC market. The tablet market is a small component of it, but an important part of it. So if you think of mobile as platform -- as phone plus tablet plus all the other things, we hope to become the leading platform in that space.

And we're doing it with an open-source approach. So in the open-source approach, that means we give the software away, which is always paradoxical. People say, well, how do you make money from that? Let's start with the fact that the evidence we have is that people who use Android search twice as much as everybody else. So, clearly, there's more revenue associated with those searches.

Another thing, of course, is that if they're using Android systems, the revenue that we share in the searches is shared with the operator, but not with anybody else. So, again, it's more lucrative. So not only are there more searches, and there's more ads, but it's also more lucrative.

So on that basis alone, Android is hugely profitable. And we maintain the anti-fragmentation and other things by a series of contracts around the store and so forth and so on. So, Android is likely to be financially successful to Google without even any of the applications that are possible.

So Patrick calls up and says, okay, what else can you do for us? And the answer, of course, is that we can layer on value-added services, which is how you get to the $10. And the value-added services could be of any kind.

Our primary purpose right now is building this open platform. Google chose to make a bet on open systems and open platform and the open Web. That's served us well so far, and it looks like it's going to work really well in Android.

OPERATOR: Mark Mahaney, Citigroup.

MARK MAHANEY, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Two questions on the cost side. It looks like this is the first quarter in about 1.5 years which -- in which costs per employee on an annualized basis have declined sequentially. Is there something that you've been able to put in place that gives you confidence that that will continue going forward?

And just on the mobile revenue opportunity, are the results strong enough from your perspective in terms of dollars and growth such that you'll stay with an indirect monetization approach toward Android, or are you going to keep the door open and potentially charge per operating system as a shared applications in the future? Thank you.

PATRICK PICHETTE: On cost per employee, look, it's just another reflection of -- I wouldn't read anything kind of forward-looking into our results, except that it's just another good example of how we are -- I talked earlier about generous but frugal.

We are investing, but people should not confuse the fact that we are investing, and we're investing aggressively where we really see fantastic opportunities, from being wasteful. We're just not a wasteful company. And so in that sense, that's a good signal, and we'll continue to do so.

On the mobile, maybe Jonathan or Nikesh can give us an indication of it.

NIKESH ARORA, PRESIDENT GLOBAL SALES OPERATIONS & BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT, GOOGLE: I think just following up on what Eric said earlier, we are very, very keen to build this ecosystem.

And I think Jonathan's disclosure on the fact that we're on a $1 billion run rate in mobile is testament to the fact that we have a revenue model which we are very excited about, and that revenue model sort of proves to us that roughly the revenues are split between our search efforts, our display efforts, and our application efforts, and we are able to play across all those three spaces with our mobile monetization efforts. And the more people who use smartphones, the more people who are able to access the Web from their devices, the more we see the trend that people are going to search on them, they're going to give us opportunities to put display advertising in there.

So we see no reason to change our monetization model. We think the current approach to Android drives more users and more usage, and that drives the ecosystem.

ERIC SCHMIDT: And Nikesh, I think you've argued that display will become a very large component of the mobile revenue because of the successes that we're seeing in our mobile business and the hockey stick therein.

NIKESH ARORA: Exactly.

OPERATOR: Douglas Anmuth, Barclays Capital.

DOUGLAS ANMUTH, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Two things. First on display, can you give us some context in terms of breaking out YouTube AdSense for content and the Ad Exchange?

And then, secondly, what's your view on other potentially competitive Android app stores that are out there? Thank you.

PATRICK PICHETTE: So I'll answer the first, and then I'll give Jonathan to talk about the Android marketplaces. So on display, we just don't break it down, so we will not give the details.

What we wanted to give today with the numbers we're sharing is a sense of scale and trajectory, and that's really what we wanted to share, so we, unfortunately, won't give any more details on that.

On the Android competitive stores, Eric, maybe you can give us more perspective on it.

ERIC SCHMIDT: Yes, the goal of the stores is to make money for the people who are writing the software and the applications, and it's not a revenue goal for Google.

So, there certainly will be multiple stores. There will certainly be the key one from us, and we think it's a net win for everybody. So, but it's not a primary focus on Google from a revenue perspective. It's really for the developers.

OPERATOR: Brian Pitz, UBS.

BRIAN PITZ, ANALYST, UBS: Would you provide us with a relative idea of how the difference between average CPCs and clickthrough rates are basically on mobile versus the PC, now that you have a large enough number of devices in the market?

And secondly, if there is a gap, which I imagine there is, can you close that gap longer term between the two? Thanks.

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: This is Jonathan. Nikesh can maybe give you more of a customer base perspective.

I think as some of you know, we recently started smart pricing on the mobile devices, and it is the case that the CPCs on the mobile devices are a good bit lower. It's primarily because there isn't the measurement -- there isn't as much of a consummation of a transaction on the mobile devices. People don't have their credit cards in them. It's harder to type into them. So the mobile rates remain relatively lower.

As payment platforms get built into the mobile devices and as people are more likely to actually complete a transaction, I think you'll see those things go up substantially.

I think it's also the case that on devices like the iPad, the kind of activity looks a little bit more like it does on a PC primarily because people have a larger window, a bigger browser, and they are also more able to input information. Nikesh?

NIKESH ARORA: I think the only thing I have to add to that is there are some formats which we've started to introduce which are driving a better monetization on the mobile side, formats like click-to-call and hyperlocal, because people are searching on their mobile devices where they want to then make a phone call. Or they are searching on their devices and they're looking for something in a very local context.

And there, we're beginning to see sort of better CPMs and better monetization. Generally, we think that's where the trend is. That's where we're going to see more and more monetization, and clearly we are seeing monetization of the application side of mobile because with the AdMob sort of team that we have and all the advertisers want to be part of the applications, the applications are becoming a big share of people's mobile usage.

OPERATOR: Ross Sandler, RBC Capital Markets.

ROSS SANDLER, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Two quick questions. First is, you guys have discussed the cannibalization topic before between smartphone and PC, but when you look at the search data, can you see whether tablet searches or iPad searches are incremental or is there any cannibalization versus PC? And is the tablet option within AdWords going to be similar to the desktop/laptop option, or is it going to be kind of a separate category?

And then, Nikesh, can you just give us a little bit more color on the rest of world growth just in terms of regions that were driving that 26%? Was it broad-based or was there anything that stood out? Thank you.

PATRICK PICHETTE: So we'll let Jonathan answer the first part.

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: Yes, so we don't see cannibalization. We tend to see mobile as very complementary to the desktop.

I think you do see some differences in the search patterns. People use mobile at lunch. They use it in the evening. They use it on weekends, they use it more on holidays. But we seem both mobile and web search traffic growing, and they appear to us to be complementary and not cannibalizing each other.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Nikesh, do you want to cover the international growth?

NIKESH ARORA: Yes, the U.S. growth was very good for us. I'm very pleased with the way our U.S. team has driven the revenues across the board, across our revenue categories.

On the international side, I'd say generally the trend has been positive across the board. I know the UK has been a bit weaker, but there's a bit of currency in there as well. But France, Germany, those markets have actually been very, very robust. I'd say southern Europe has done way better than some of the northern European countries, but that's expected because they are enjoying sort of a bit of a growth curve, and clearly, some of the Asian markets are growing robustly for us.

So, good growth across the board.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thank you, Ross, for your question. Connie, let's go to our next question, please.

OPERATOR: Jeetil Patel, Deutsche Bank.

JEETIL PATEL, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: A couple of questions. I guess you're on a pace of doing about a $30 billion in gross revenue run rate. I guess maybe a different way to look at your business, but since it's an ROI-driven model, I guess, can you quantify or give us a sense of what kind of gross dollar value of transaction that entails for all of the merchants and customers that are participating in the system?

And second, I guess if you look at your competition in mobile or another company in the space in mobile, they make about $300 in operating profit per handset sold. I guess, do you think this is more the upper bound as it relates to lifetime profit for handset? Do you think it can be higher? And obviously, you're going after a different strategy. But where do you think is the upper bound in terms of the profit potential on a, let's say, two-year handset in terms of monetization?

PATRICK PICHETTE: Let me -- on the gross value, rather than to try to give you more details on this call, Google has actually published some economic data about the amount of value that is actually transacted across the system. And so, I may just refer you back to the IR team that can actually dig that out because we actually shared that with the public over the last eight months, or six months, and it's actually very detailed into how much economic is actually flowing to our systems.

ERIC SCHMIDT: And on the handset question -- this is Eric -- that you asked, I understand the question that you're asking. Our model, remember, is that the handset manufacturers and the operators are going to make a lot of that money, and our model is that our operating system is free and that we're going to make money from advertising and value-added services on top of the Android platform.

So it's a completely different model, and so it's very difficult to compare the two. They're really apples and oranges. It would be, I think, premature to -- for us to estimate what that would be, but if you assume that search monetization on handsets will become equivalent to PCs and then eventually exceed it, which is my personal view, then it should be highly lucrative because those -- the customers are using Google services. They are going to use them more because they are more personal, they're more targeted, and so ultimately, it should be a very, very strong revenue stream compared to a PC.

OPERATOR: Jason Maynard, Wells Fargo Securities.

JASON MAYNARD, ANALYST, WELLS FARGO SECURITIES: I actually have a question about social search. I'm just curious about how do you capture the signal from social networks without a relationship like you have with Twitter, where you can actually get fairly easy access to the data feeds?

ERIC SCHMIDT: One of the things that we're careful about is not to describe how our signals are actually assembled. But the answer is that there are some ways in which we can do that, and we also have in development other ways in which people can give us that sort of information that can make it even more personal.

JASON MAYNARD: And then, maybe just a follow-up for Nikesh, when you think about mobile advertising, maybe just to sort of help me frame, where do you think advertisers are at in their lifecycle of actually committing dollars to spend in this medium and form factor?

NIKESH ARORA: I think the important part to understand in the mobile space is that the reason the $1 billion number is an interesting number is that just means that now the larger advertisers can get more interested because we can help them spend reasonable amounts of money.

It's very hard to go make a pitch to a large advertiser when the maximum inventory that you can offer them is in the $5,000 or $10,000 or $50,000 range, especially with advertisers who've got $100 million or $200 million advertising budgets. So, to get them interested, if they get interested they'd like to be able to deploy reasonable amounts of money against this market.

So, the part I'm excited about is that the inventory continues to grow. There is diversity in formats. People are interested in search-based advertising. People are interested in display-based advertising. They want to be in the middle of applications and get customer engagement. So, we are seeing sort of reasonable broad-based interest.

Clearly, the early adopters are people who can actually consummate a transaction. So, insurance services want a click-to-call. They want to be able to pitch. They want the customer to be able to pick up the phone and call them.

There are people who are in the local space who want the customer to come to their restaurant. They want the customer to come show up where they are offering a local service. So, that interest is going up now.

The retailers who actually are interested when you're looking for a local JCPenney or a RadioShack, that we can tell you where it is and they can actually click and find out where it is. So, the interest continues to grow as you look at the local categories, as you look at the click-to-call categories, and, as Jonathan said, as payment capabilities start getting built into the phone, you'll start seeing even more of an interest from the e-commerce players.

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: By the way, this is Jonathan. Try typing in some things that will generate the hyperlocal feature that we have on mobile search ads. If you try, for example, typing in car rental, there's a very good chance you'll see an Enterprise Rent-A-Car ad that tells you how far away it is to their nearest location. You know, half a mile, along with a phone number and a link to a map. And I think that will give you a sense of how powerful it is.

OPERATOR: Jason Helfstein, Oppenheimer & Co..

JASON HELFSTEIN, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER & CO.: One of the questions that investors continue to have is, ultimately, what's the right long-term growth rate to think about for international? Prior to the recession, the Company was obviously putting up very large international growth rates, and we've seen a slowdown and now a rebound. Is there additional color you can give us as far as do you think about the long-term opportunities, let's say, in the more developing countries and how that is impacting your results internationally? Thanks.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Because it's guidance, forward-looking guidance, I -- we just can't comment.

I think that you have to take it from the current performance that you see over the last couple of quarters that there is clearly a separation in the world of economic growth in general and the digital economy growth. And from that, you have to infer that that's why we're so optimistic about the future of international and we are investing so much in it.

Let's go to the next question, Connie, please.

OPERATOR: Youssef Squali, Jefferies & Company.

YOUSSEF SQUALI, ANALYST, JEFFERIES & COMPANY: Two quick questions. First, Patrick, your traffic acquisition cost rate seems to be the lowest you've had, I think, since IPO. What accounted for that and is that sustainable going forward?

And two, growth in the last few quarters was driven largely by volume, not price. So to what extent is that driven by more SEO, less SEM, maybe a mix of domestic versus international, and how realistic is it for us to kind of expect kind of hockey stick, or maybe not a hockey stick, but a re-acceleration in pricing trends? Thanks.

PATRICK PICHETTE: So I'll take the first question, and then on pricing, Jonathan can probably give you some perspective.

On the TAC, it's very simple. This quarter, we've had two really factors. One is our MySpace deal is now over, and with it, there was a contract with minimum guarantees that now has expired. So that's one element.

And then, the second one is simply the mix of our partners within the network actually will affect our TAC. And that's really the effect that you see for this quarter. There's nothing more or less.

In terms of forward-looking for volume versus price, Jonathan, any insights or --

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: I'm not really sure how to answer the question without saying anything forward-looking. So was there anything specific, Youssef, in terms of trends that you've seen that you're asking for clarification on?

YOUSSEF SQUALI: Yes, I mean we've been hearing from agencies and advertisers that they are spending more on SEO. They're getting smarter about how to spend their ad dollars.

So to the extent that that continues, than that really is putting a dampening effect on CPC growth going forward. The mix between domestic/international should shift to more international, and that over time we should see higher CPCs. I'm just trying to kind of see, as we look at the business over the next several years, how realistic is it to assume that, one, i.e., the increased international CPCs will offset the SEO trend?

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: First, I guess I don't actually agree that I've necessarily seen such a trend in terms of more SEO versus SEM. As far as I can tell, SEO has always been pretty big.

Pricing has been pretty healthy from my perspective coming out of a recession. Bids are healthy. We've got very strong conversion rates, and presumably that's because the advertisers are seeing buyers again. And the advertisers look at the total value they get from Google, and they are optimizing across everything under their purview. So, I'm not necessarily sure I agree with the trends the way you've stated them.

ERIC SCHMIDT: The other thing that's going on is that we're continuing to make algorithmic improvements to our ad targeting, which flow through the system sort of as the inventions are brought out. We've brought out hundreds of them in the quarter, small ones, but the sum of them is actually helping drive, basically, the revenue performance on a per-query basis.

OPERATOR: Ben Schachter, Macquarie Securities.

BEN SCHACHTER, ANALYST, MACQUARIE SECURITIES: A few years ago, there was a lot of discussion around crawlable exclusive data or databases, and while yesterday's deal with Microsoft and Facebook was not exclusive, I wonder if you think that's going to be a topic that may become more of an issue going forward, particularly with Microsoft?

And then, also, just quickly, a lot of discussion lately around daily deals and private sales and those kind of things. Can Google participate in that in any way? Thanks.

PATRICK PICHETTE: In general, I mean, the web continues to grow at such a blazing pace that if you think of all the signals available, there are -- any one that would be private is completely swamped in the sea of the Internet.

And in that sense, it's not really a relevant question, if you think of the -- what Jonathan would call the petabytes or terabytes or exabytes. So from that perspective, I think that we continue to organize the vastness of this, and that's where most of the value comes from. So, I think that we're not concerned on that sense.

ERIC SCHMIDT: There's always a concern that large, private collections of data are not accessible to Web search engines.

We have teams that spend an awful lot of time trying to make sure people know that they -- if they optimize their stuff, it's easier to crawl. We have site maps and other services which are standardized among the Web search industry. So, it's obviously up to the content owner to decide how much of that information to expose.

We've taken the position, both within a religious and a business perspective, that the world is better off if you take the information that you're assembling and making it searchable. It provides a larger audience, it drives more traffic to your site, et cetera, et cetera, and we fundamentally believe that.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Jonathan, do you want to take the second?

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: Sure. There's no question, Ben, there is a very exciting space related to daily deals, which we are seeing, and there's obviously a lot of small companies that are doing a fabulous job there.

We do participate in it to some degree. There are some companies that use Site Links for hot deals. So there is a mechanism that we already have where advertisers are actually putting in today's deals and highlighting them. But there's no question. That's a very exciting and hot space, and there are a lot of innovative players building some pretty effective business models there right now.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Why don't we go to the next question?

OPERATOR: Jordan Rohan, Stifel Nicolaus.

JORDAN ROHAN, ANALYST, STIFEL NICOLAUS: A couple of follow-up questions on mobile while we're on the subject. I'm a big fan of Google Instant, wondering when it will be fully rolled out on Blackberry, iPhone, and other devices there?

Also, curious if you happened to disclose the number of Android devices activated in the quarter? I think last quarter, it was around 200,000 a day.

And finally, instead of smart pricing and sort of obscuring the discount placed on mobile search clicks or calls, why not let advertisers just bid directly on the mobile search inventory? You might be surprised about the yield.

PATRICK PICHETTE: So let me -- on Instant, Jonathan, when is Instant available for all these mobile devices?

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: It's relatively soon. Some time this fall. Fall lasts a little longer in California, though.

PATRICK PICHETTE: We don't -- the last public number is 200,000 handsets activated today, and that's the last number that we've been using, so we stick to that one for now. And can you just repeat, Jordan, your last question for me?

JORDAN ROHAN: Yes, smart pricing is, as I understand it, maybe I'm getting it wrong, but Google has an algorithm which discounts the value assigned to advertisers that -- which advertisers have to pay for certain clicks if it's believed that those clicks perhaps are less frequently tied to conversions.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Yes, they can set up a separate campaign now. So the smart pricing is a convenient mechanism for them if they want to leverage the existing campaign across mobile. But many advertisers have increasingly set up separate campaigns for mobile.

JORDAN ROHAN: They can right now, full visibility there. So that's how you, at some level, inform your decisions about smart pricing for the rest of the universe that accesses the inventory (multiple speakers)

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: Oh, I'm not sure that's -- no. The smart pricing is done algorithmically on the basis of what we see. We're not doing it. We don't necessarily look at differentiation between specific bids on -- across different campaigns.

OPERATOR: Sandeep Aggarwal, Caris & Company.

SANDEEP AGGARWAL, ANALYST, CARIS & COMPANY: Thanks for taking my questions. Actually, I have two questions. One is, Eric, given that non-core search business is becoming more material part of your business, in the past you allocated resources 70%, 20%, 10%. Is there a shift in terms of how you are allocating resources now?

And secondly, this may imply more of asking in the guidance, but I guess my question is, by when do you envision mobile advertising overtaking display advertising?

ERIC SCHMIDT: The latter is a very speculative question and not something that, one, we don't know and, two, even if we knew, we probably wouldn't talk about it.

On the question of allocation of resources, I think at the end of the day, Larry and Sergey and I have talked about, it's sort of our job to use our best judgment based on the sum of technological opportunity, business opportunity, and so forth, to divide, if you will, between classic core business, is what you're really asking, and some of these emergent ones.

So, we are informed by the hockey stick nature of these things. So there's a couple of ones. I'll give you an example of Android, which is small in resources and growing very quickly. So they pretty much have been able to get whatever resources they need, and they're going up against very large giants with a factor of 10 more resources.

And so, we sort of measure it that way.

When we then go back and solve for 70%, 20%, 10%, it turns out we're roughly consistent with 70%, 20%, 10%. It's not really as much of a formula as is much looking at where the real excitement is.

The other thing that we are doing is we're organizing ourselves -- Nikesh is actually leading this effort -- into more of an internal business unit structure because, frankly, it's just become so large and so complicated that it's been difficult for us to keep track of all the details. And so, that will give us a better tie-in between where the current and future revenue is and where the resources are going. And I think, Nikesh, it's on the order of 10, 15 kind of structure by the time you're done, with the obvious big ones being search and ads and display and enterprise and that kind of stuff. YouTube.

NIKESH ARORA: Yes, so, and just in closing on that, what really matters the most to us as we actually do the resource allocation is, as Eric said, when you see a hockey stick, pour on gas on that fire.

And when we do actually -- we keep the flexibility to make sure that we really feed the winner so that they keep the momentum, as you've seen, for example, in Android in the last 24 months, which has been tremendous.

Thank you for your question. Connie, we probably have time for two or three more -- two more questions. So let's go for second to last.

OPERATOR: Mark May, Needham & Company.

MARK MAY, ANALYST, NEEDHAM & COMPANY: Big picture question about data because that seems to be an increasing factor of differentiation and growth for online ad companies. How does Google think generally about leveraging user data, both to better target ads and how to stay competitive with those like Facebook and Microsoft and Yahoo that are leveraging data possibly more so than what Google is today? I think this is particularly relevant for using search data for your display business. But, would love to get your thoughts on that.

ERIC SCHMIDT: We have a pretty strong opinion that we're not going to do very much of it.

The reason is that we take our end-user data privacy incredibly seriously, and the trust that people have with respect to giving us that information, both their search histories as well as other pieces of information, they get very upset, very, very quickly if we, in their view, misuse it.

So, what we typically tell people is we're not going to do the kinds of things that you could do with this, in particular use it to generate sort of strange ads against your history and things like that, without your explicit permission. And we probably, in many cases, won't do it forever.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thank you, Mark. Let's go to our last question, Connie.

OPERATOR: Marianne Wolk, Susquehanna Financial Group/SIG.

MARIANNE WOLK, ANALYST, SUSQUEHANNA FINANCIAL GROUP/SIG: Thanks very much. It looks like you did a great job converting a lot of the advertising on the content network over to display. Can you talk about to what extent that's now video based and is that helping monetization rates significantly? Do you expect that to be sort of 100% display shortly? Thank you.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Nikesh, maybe you want to talk about the display and how it's evolving?

NIKESH ARORA: I've been waiting for the entire earnings call practically to talk about display.

I'm glad that Patrick and Jonathan have allowed us to disclose the real run rate of $2.5 billion. I think this puts us in one of the top three display networks in the world.

I also believe that the technology suite we offer is bar -- second to none. So, in terms of the video versus the other display formats, it is primarily -- a lot of this is still display in terms of banner ads and other formats. And this video is beginning to come into it.

But we believe in the future, there is going to be a lot more rich media involved in the Display Network. As we go forward, you're going to see more and more monetization of video, whether it's on YouTube or other partner sites. That's going to happen. So, we believe the Display Network we offer has maximum frequency and maximum reach. You can reach people more times a day than anyone else. Very excited about display. So I was not sure what you meant by what would become 100% of display.

MARIANNE WOLK: I'm sorry. But of the, roughly, 1 million partners that are part of the partner network, to what extent is that now converted to display? And could that ultimately be entirely part -- entirely Display Network?

And then also, just since I've got you, can you clarify the run rate information you gave? Is that a trailing 12-month figure or are you annualizing the current quarter? Thank you.

NIKESH ARORA: I'll let Patrick answer the -- how we come to $2.5 billion. But in terms of the million partners we have, the entire partner network is part of our Display Network that we offer, and we actually have the ability to offer them display advertising or text-based advertising, and basically it's based on ROI and CPMs that we make that determination or the publisher makes the determination or the advertisers make the determination. So, our entire network that we have is open for display advertising already.

PATRICK PICHETTE: And on the previous -- on the follow-up question, it was about -- it's just a trailing quarter. So with that, thank you for your question, Marianne.

Let me give you a couple of closing thoughts. One is, just want to reiterate that what we did today was give you a few indications of why we believe we're successful in these emerging businesses. These data points are not about giving you more information on the coming quarters, but more to give you the confidence that where we're investing and just really fueling great growth rates and building meaningful businesses.

I want to thank Eric for taking the time. I know he's running for the plane. But it's terrific to have you on the call and take a few minutes with our analysts and shareholders.

And then, I also want to take a moment to thank all the Googlers for their hard work. All this strong performance is really on the back of fantastic work from our team worldwide, our great engineers, our great sales force, and our great support staff everywhere. So, I just want to take from the OC just the time to thank them again in the public domain because they do such a terrific job.

With that, Connie, I'll let you close the call.

OPERATOR: Thank you. This concludes today's conference. We thank you for your participation.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
goog : Google Inc.
   IN
ividad : Video Advertising | ismart : Smart Phones | i34411 : Mobile Communications Equipment | itablcm : Tablet Computers | i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i3302011 : Portable/Notebook Computers | i3441 : Telecommunications Equipment | i3454 : Electronic Consumer Goods | i7902 : Telecommunications | i838 : Advertising | i8385 : Electronic Advertising | iadv : Advertising/Public Relations/Marketing | icellph : Cellular/Mobile Phones | icnp : Consumer Products | icomp : Computing | icph : Computer Hardware | idurhg : Durable Household Products | ielec : Electronics | ihandaps : Handheld Electronic Devices | ihome : Home Electronics/Appliances | imark : Marketing | i8395464 : Internet Search Engines | iint : Internet/Online Services
   NS
c32 : Advertising | ccrm : Customer Relationship Management | c11 : Plans/Strategy | c15 : Performance | e1101 : Economic Growth | ntra : Transcript | c151 : Earnings | c31 : Marketing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | uk : United Kingdom | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020101028e6ae001p5
  


 HD
 Q2  2010 Google Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
13,298 words
   PD
15 July 2010
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©010 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
OPERATOR: Good day and welcome everyone to the Google, Inc. conference call. This call is being recorded. At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Ms. Jane Penner, Senior Manager, Investor Relations.

JANE PENNER, IR, GOOGLE: Good afternoon everyone and welcome to today's second-quarter 2010 earnings conference call. With us are Patrick Pichette, Chief Financial Officer; Jonathan Rosenberg, Senior Vice President Product Management; Nikesh Arora, President Global Sales Operations and Business Development.

   TD
First, Jonathan and Patrick will provide us with their thoughts on the quarter and then Nikesh will join us to answer your questions.

Also, as you know, last quarter we began distributing our earnings release exclusively through our Investor Relations website located at investor.google.com. So going forward please refer to our IR website for our earnings releases, as well does supplementary slides that accompany the call.

This call is also being webcast from investor.google.com. A replay of the call will be available on our website in a few hours.

Now let me quickly cover the Safe Harbor. Some of the statements we make today may be considered forward-looking, including statements regarding Google's future and investments in our long-term growth and innovation, the expected performance of our business, and our expected level of capital expenditures.

These statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially. Please note that these forward-looking statements reflect our opinions only as of the date of this presentation, and we undertake no obligation to revise or publicly release the results of any revision to these forward-looking statements in light of new information or future events.

Please refer to our SEC filings for a more detailed description of the risk factors that may affect our results. Also, please note that certain financial measures we use on this call, such as operating profit and operating margin, are expressed on a non-GAAP basis, and have been adjusted to exclude charges related to stock-based compensation. We have also adjusted our net cash provided by operating activities to remove capital expenditures, which we refer to as free cash flow. Our GAAP results and non-GAAP reconciliation can be found in our investor -- in our earnings press release.

With that, I will now turn the call over to Patrick.

PATRICK PICHETTE, CFO, GOOGLE: Thank you, Jane. Good afternoon, everyone, and thank you for joining us. As Jane mentioned, Jonathan and I will begin with the preferred remarks, but we also have Nikesh with us for the Q&A. So let me start you by giving you some high-level thoughts about the quarter, and then we will get into our detailed financial performance.

So overall we are very pleased with our Q2 results. We experienced continued solid growth in our core, but also very strong growth in our emerging businesses year-over-year.

Taking a step back actually, these results reflect a few really important trends in the digital advertising. First, we are really taking notice that more and more traditional brand advertisers are embracing search and search advertising as a way to build their brands online.

A case in point, P&N. It is one of the largest brand advertisers in the world and it is now one of our top advertisers in the US.

Second, we see also a real trend in large advertising focusing on highly measurable, but also integrated campaigns across display, mobile and search. So as a result we saw strength in every major product in Q3.

Google.com was strong, with strong performance across major geographies and most major verticals, including CPG, retail, travel, etc. Our growth in display was also very strong. Our continued focus in this product area is clearly generating results.

Our display network, which includes YouTube, is growing very rapidly. The scale and quality of our network continues to increase, and we see increased demands from traditional brand advertisers in that space as well.

In addition, we made yet another significant stride in display this week, when we entered into a strategic agreement with Omnicom Media Group. We will be working together with Omnicom to codevelop their exchange trading desk for the DoubleClick Ad Exchange in the coming years.

YouTube, specifically, we continue to see very impressive growth as brand advertisers also consider it a must buy. For example, and as I mentioned a moment ago, in Q2 we ran World Cup advertising campaigns for major advertisers of the likes of Coke, Visa, Nike, Sony, etc.

Finally, on YouTube, I think it is really worth noting that we're very pleased, of course, with the court's decision to rule in our favor in the Viacom case. But more important than this victory, it is not for us, but for the users and just the Web in general. Specifically for all the blogs in the community forums across the Web that do rely on this user generated content for sharing information and also for free expression.

But we were very passionate about this issue at Google, and so much so that we have made a significant investment of approximately $100 million to win this case. Once again, it just was the right thing to do, and we did it.

In mobile our revenue continues to grow as advertisers increasingly opt into their mobile specific campaigns. And with the successful completion of the AdMob transaction in Q2, our business is gaining momentum. So we have a very competitive mobile advertising platform now. Of course, underpinning our growth is the success of the Android platform Excel, with over -- as we announced a couple of weeks ago -- 160,000 devices activated daily. That is two every second. And it creates an even larger base of data centric smartphone users.

Finally, enterprise had another good quarter with several high-profile deals, including, for example, Virgin America. The world is simply moving into the cloud.

Successful products do require investment. That is why we are focusing our resources on products that, as you all know, leverage computer science to solve our big problems, offer great ROIs, and very large growth opportunities.

For example, in Q2 we have added approximately 1,200 employees. That is obviously counting the acquisitions of AdMob and the others. But the majority is done in engineering and sales, and in the following product areas -- search monetization, display, mobile, apps, all the next billion-dollar businesses that are growing incredibly rapidly, and that is why we are investing in them. Jonathan will give you more details about that in a moment.

So now let me turn to our financial results. Gross revenue. Gross revenue grew 24% year-over-year to $6.8 billion. Our Google website's revenue was also up 23% year-over-year to $4.5 billion, with strength, as I mentioned, across most geographies and verticals. Our AdSense revenue was up 23% as well to $2.1 billion, reflecting our continued strength, specifically in the Google display network.

Other revenue was up also 39% year-over-year to $258 million. And it includes the last quarter of revenue from the sale of Nexus One. As announced, we are discontinuing the direct-to-consumer channel in Q3, and as a result, beyond Q3 we won't recognize any revenue or cost associated with the sale of Nexus One. They are still being sold through various carrier partners, both in the US and Europe, however.

Our global aggregate paid click growth remained quite healthy, up 15% year-over-year, and down 3% quarter-over-quarter due to the typical summer seasonality. Aggregate cost-per-click growth was up 4% year-over-year and 2% quarter-over-quarter. Note that the FX had a positive impact on our CPC growth year-over-year and a negative one quarter over quarter. Remember too that this is an aggregate number, and it includes both google.com and our AdSense properties.

Turning now to our geographic performance. On a relative basis the UK dragged a bit the global economic recovery, certainly relative to the US and rest of world which were strong. Revenue from the US was up 26% year-over-year to $3.3 billion. And in our earnings slide you will find on our Investor website, you will see that we have broken down our revenue by US, UK and rest of world to show you the impact of the FX and benefit from our hedging programs. So please refer to these slides for these calculations.

International revenue accounted for 52% of our total revenue, or $3.5 billion, also up 21% year-over-year, which includes $79 million benefits from our hedging programs. This is compared to $124 million of benefits in Q2 of last year.

If we use fixed exchange rates our international revenue would have been roughly $24 million lower year-over-year. The UK was up 8% year-over-year to $770 million.

Let me now turn to expenses. Traffic acquisition costs were $1.7 billion, or 26% of our total advertising revenue. Our cost of revenue was $735 million,, including stock-based compensation of $8 million, and also expenses related to the sale of Nexus One.

Finally, all operating expenses totaled $2 billion. This is also including $301 million of stock-based compensation. The increase in year-over-year OpEx is really primarily due to increases in payroll, professional services and advertising and promotional spend.

So as a result of all this, our non-GAAP operating profit, which excludes stock-based compensation, increased to $2.7 billion in Q2, resulting in a non-GAAP operating margin of 39%, essentially the same as last year.

As I mentioned already, our head count was up approximately 1,200 heads versus Q1, and in the quarter with 21,805 full-time employees, and again that reflects the acquisitions as well.

Our effective tax rate was up to 24% in Q2 versus 22% in Q1, essentially due to the mix of earnings between domestic and international subsidiary, and the impact of our hedging program. Let me quickly turn to cash management.

Other income and expense was 69% for Q2 -- $69 million, I am sorry, for Q2, which includes good progress in our portfolio management performance, although it was somewhat offset by the impact of our hedging expenses with FASB 133. For more detail on the OI&E, again, please refer to the slides that accompany this call on our IR website.

In addition, we have announced today a $3 billion commercial paper program in a related credit facility. This to us is an important step in establishing a more capital efficient structure that will provide us with low cost working capital availability and flexibility. It is also an excellent time to do it, given the historical low interest rates.

Operating cash flow was very strong at $2.1 billion. CapEx for the quarter was $476 million, again primarily related to our data center operations. And as a reminder, we continue to make significant CapEx investments, and it just turned out to be lumpy from quarter to quarter. Our free cash flow, therefore, stands at $1.6 billion, and a very good position.

So if you take a step back from all these numbers, here is where we stand. We are very pleased with our Q2 performance, seeing growth across revenue, margin and cash flow. And it really paints a picture of where we are very confident of our future. That is why we continue to attract and hire among the best talent in the world to further invest in our growth agenda.

So with that, and before we open up to questions, let me turn it to Jonathan for his comments.

JONATHAN ROSENBERG, SVP, PRODUCT MANAGEMENT, GOOGLE: Okay, well, thanks, Patrick. So let me start with search. Search used to be pretty simple. You would enter a query and we would return a bunch of links to websites. But now the Web is much, much more complicated. There is videos; there is books; there is music; there is news, just about any type of media you can name is online. So the scale of the Web now is grand, and it isn't slowing down.

To keep pace we migrated a lot of our index to a new infrastructure, which we call Caffeine. And Caffeine is basically a new way of updating our index. So now when we find a new webpage, or new information like a video or an image, we had them straight to the index without a delay. This means that the results that you get are a lot fresher, and in fact, they are about 50% fresher than before.

But then once you get your results, you need tools to work with them to get to the right answer. We have launched a new UI that has a bunch of options on the left hand side to help you filter those results. I especially like the timeline feature, which I think is great when you're doing research and you want to see results from a particular time. So you can enter say, oil spill, and click on timeline and 1969, and you can read all about the big Santa Barbara spill that led to the ban on offshore drilling in California.

On the other hand, sometimes you just want an answer. The query is effectively the result. We are getting much better at knowing when that is the case and giving you what you need. So enter, for example, Barack Obama birthday, and you'll see what I mean. You will see his birthday listed, August 4, 1961, and citations for the different sources where we got that information.

All this works and suggests too. Try typing, capital South Africa. By the time you get to the first A in Africa, we tell you it is Pretoria.

I point all these things out because the great things about features like these is most people I think don't even notice the changes. They just notice they get their answers fast.

I think I mentioned on the earnings call back in January but we are working on putting more wood behind fewer arrows, and search innovation is definitely one of those arrows. Our pace here is actually accelerating. Voice search added six languages. We launched spelling full-page replacement, suggest with spell corrections, and over 100 quality enhancements. So there is lots of stuff going on. In fact, there is so much that we are putting out a weekly blog post to document all the search improvements.

But interestingly, as search gets better, it actually creates another huge challenge for us, the ads need to keep pace and get better too, otherwise, what would happen is people will click on relatively fewer ads and that -- well, that would be bad.

So this dynamic where consumers are in control holds for all types of media, and not just search. It used to be consumers had to watch, see, or listen to whatever the advertiser wanted to show, but now they don't.

I think this is a fundamental shift for the advertising industry. When people don't have to watch your ads, what do you do? Well, you have to make ads people actually want to watch. I was in Piazza San Marco in Venice a couple of weeks ago, and there was this huge billboard advertising a ski jacket. It was like 90 degrees and we were sweating in shorts and T-shirts. I looked and I thought, what a waste of money. So I took a photo of the ad with my smartphone, and I sent it to my team as proof there is lots of upside in improving ads.

This quarter we made great progress on that upside. We added new ad formats and we focused even more on quality. The new formats let advertisers put more useful information into their ads, such as pictures of a product or a local address or a phone number. It turns out that when you're searching for something from your phone, you are much more likely to click on the ad when it has a phone address in it. This seems obvious to you, but now we actually know from the data that is true.

One of our customers, Carnival Cruises, increased bookings from mobile phones by 175% when they included click-to-call ads. Lastly on ads, I know you often ask about headroom in ads quality. I am thrilled to say we had one of our most productive quarters there in the last couple of years. Over a dozen launches on search with a strong impact on revenue.

We did things like put better ads on the second page of results, where we realize that the ads weren't as good. And we also had over 20 quality improvements on the Google display network.

Display, by the way, is going very well. One recent development is that we are working closely with our agency partners to help them move to what they call an audience buying model. I think this is another fundamental shift in advertising, where the ultimate goal is to designate a particular audience on our network, like say, women between 18 and 35, who like basketball. And then we automatically target that audience for you.

We are also making progress with features like remarketing, which we launched last quarter. Advertisers can reach people who have already visited their sites. Interest-based advertising, which we launched last year is also working very well. And so is the DoubleClick Ad Exchange, which we launched in Q3. We've got several of the top ad networks on it, and we are attracting some big buyers like agency holding companies.

Advertisers really like the technology, which is real-time bidding. And publishers like that is open to all advertisers and ad networks, who would they want to work with.

We want to be open in everything we do. We believe open systems are better for the Web; they're better for competition; they're better for the user. This is not philanthropy. When the Web is better, more people use it more often, and that means they search more often. Android is a leading example of this. As Patrick mentioned, we are now activating over 160,000 Android devices every day. This is up from 65,000 last quarter.

What is even more interesting there is that most of these devices are developed completely independently of Google. One of those is the Sprint EVO, which is actually my favorite phone right now. It has a big screen; it has got great video; it acts as a Wi-Fi hotspot for me. It has 4G bandwidth, at least when you are around MountainView.

The Android market is also open, of course, and now has over 70,000 apps. That was around 30,000 in April. As you look at all these new apps being created, you also realize that your mobile phone isn't alone anymore. It is actually connected to several million computers 24 by 7. This is letting us do things that we used to think were impossible.

We just released a new version of Goggles that lets you take a picture of something in another language with your phone, and it translate it for you. I actually use this a lot to read menus on my vacation in Italy. You literally don't have to guess what you're going to eat anymore. Or say you want to read about how the locals are celebrating their World Cup victory. Congratulations to Spain, by the way. Anyway, you just go to ElPais.com, and [Chrome to] automatically translate it for you in a second.

So Cloud Computing also means that enterprises can take advantage of these innovations. We just launched this feature where if you have say a PDF or the image of the scanned document, you can upload it to docs, and we will convert it to text, so you can edit it. You don't have to install any special software or anything. If you are a Google Apps customer it is just there, and it works.

Of course, the cloud is pretty good for wasting time too. I hope you played with our special Pac Man doodle. We put it up on May 22 to celebrate Pac-Man's 30th birthday. And we estimate people spent 4.8 million hours playing it. If you missed it, go to google.com/Pac-Man. Thank you for your time. Back to Patrick.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thank you, Jonathan. And yes, there was these great reports of billions of billions of kind of productivity lost over that little Pac-Man, so obviously we did something right somewhere.

Connie, can you actually turn on the Q&A process. And I am going to invite Nikesh to also join us at this time.

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). James Mitchell, Goldman Sachs.

JAMES MITCHELL, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Thank you very much, and thank you for the Pac-Man distraction a few weeks ago. My question was about the sequential increase in operating expenses. I was wondering if there was any adjustment to bonus accruals that went into that sequential increase, or was it entirely due to headcount additions and acquisitions and marketing?

PATRICK PICHETTE: The bonus accrual would have a small impact on it. So it is really about headcount, about TVCs, about marketing.

OPERATOR: Spencer Wang, Credit Suisse.

SPENCER WANG, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Two quick questions. First, in terms of the paid click growth, the 15%, I was wondering if you could just give us a sense of how much of that is coming from mobile today currently versus say last quarter.

Then the second question, maybe for Patrick, just on TAC, it was done a little bit year-over-year flat sequentially. Can you just give us a sense of where you think, on a percentage basis, that is trending, especially with the MySpace deal coming up shortly? Thank you.

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: This is Jonathan on the mobile question. Mobile is certainly growing faster than other clicks. So everything else being constant, there is a disproportionately larger group of mobile clicks this quarter than in quarters in the past, but we don't really have any more detail than that.

PATRICK PICHETTE: In the case of TAC, it has been -- most of the TAC that we have today -- because as you said so rightly the MySpace deal is ending now -- I mean, we shouldn't see any -- there is no big jump anywhere in the TAC going forward. It has been pretty stable, actually around -- I think you said 27% or -- and so there is very little variability in it.

OPERATOR: Imran Khan, JPMorgan.

IMRAN KHAN, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Two quick questions. One, the 1,200 or so headcount increase, could you give us some sense of where are you locating those headcount? Is it in search or most of the headcounts are going to new initiative?

Also, secondly, in terms of the cost-per-click, can you give us some sense the differences of cost-per-click mobile versus desktop, and how quickly you think it can narrow? Thank you.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Great. So why don't I start with the 1,200. So remember 1200, just to give a bit of clarification, there is probably around 300 of those 1,200 that in estimate that come from M&A. So really organically, if you think about it, more like 900, which was not unlike last quarter.

I mentioned in my core notes, most of the headcount is in engineering and sales. And most of the headcount, like a vast majority, is going to the four core areas of focus of the Company. So they are about search and search monetization. They are going to mobile and Android. They are going to apps and they are going to display. We see so much momentum in each of these right now, that that is where the bulk of the resources are going, because that is where the focus of the Company is.

On the CPC, Nikesh.

NIKESH ARORA, PRESIDENT GLOBAL SALES OPS AND BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT., GOOGLE: On the CPC -- hi, this is Nikesh -- on the CPC, I don't think there is enough data for us to actually look at the trend in terms of it is closing or not. But you have to understand, the mobile advertiser sees mobile as a very different platform vis-a-vis the desktop advertiser. You see high CPCs where there are transactions that can be consummated on the mobile, i.e., in digital entertainment. You don't see as high CPCs as when you're trying to give directions to a certain restaurant or a place where they might conduct commerce.

So there is still some disparity between the CPCs in the desktop and mobile. Within mobile, depending on the verticals, there is disparity depending on the type of advertiser. (multiple speakers).

OPERATOR: Justin Post, Bank of America.

JUSTIN POST, ANALYST, BANK OF AMERICA: My questions are about Android. Can you talk about how much investment is going into that platform? And then how do you think about it? Is this an investment that just needs to keep going just so you can compete in the mobile market? Or -- you're not charging for it, is this is a real installed base revenue opportunity, and we are going to start hearing more communication about how you're going to monetize it down the road? Thank you.

PATRICK PICHETTE: So let me give you a high-level answer to give everybody comfort. Android is not -- in terms of cost, it is not material to the Company. Not only that, but let me give you a further kind of proof point of the value of Android is, some of the key products that have been launched over the last few weeks and few months have not been developed by Google at all. I think the last Android X or Motorola -- what is it -- Droid X, has been developed by Motorola directly with Verizon and not involving any of the Google resources.

So it is not a use resource investment. It is a formidable return in that what you have is the entire ecosystem exploding. I will let Jonathan give you really the sense of that one. So from a cost side it is not material.

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: We gave some data just on the scope of the numbers, the 160,000 Android devices, as well as the growth in apps from 30,000 to 70,000. But I think the most important and most obvious thing to think about from our perspective is what is the most popular app on these devices. The most popular app is a browser. What do people do with the browser on these devices? They search an order of magnitude more than they have on any previous type of smartphones which they have had in years past.

So the combination of people browsing on these smartphones connected on very, very fast networks, and searching on them, is basically the formula around how Google makes -- how Google succeeds.

JUSTIN POST: I have also got a follow-up. But are you seeing search activity really strong on mobile devices with Android? And do you think you're losing any ground relative to search activity within applications?

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: Android search grew 300% in the first half of 2010. So, yes, search on Android devices is exploding.

PATRICK PICHETTE: I think another way to frame it in numerical numbers, I mean, the mobile has grown 500% in the last two years in terms of the traffic. So think of that, and then think of Android being an accelerator of that, because every time you bring the NPV of all these platforms coming forward, you get a lot more. So that is how to think about the problem and the solution that we bring.

OPERATOR: Doug Anmuth, Barclays Capital.

DOUG ANMUTH, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Two things I wanted to ask. First, just on the macro environment, can you comment on what you saw at all during Q2 in terms of whether the environment seemed to change at all, either in the US or Europe?

Then, secondly, just given the $3 billion commercial paper program, can you update your current thoughts on returning cash potentially to shareholders? Thank you.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Let me start with the last one first. Really the commercial paper is a fantastic opportunity for us, given the portfolio that we have put in place for our cash to actually have the working capital flexibility around it. So now if I need working capital for my day-to-day operations, I have that flexibility through commercial paper, and that is really the essence of what we are doing.

We have made no decisions at all on share buybacks or -- as I said to everyone, it is a topic that is regularly debated, brought to the Board for debate, and we have nothing to announce on that one.

On the macro side I would say, look, there's kind of two things. Everybody reads the press; everybody has seen everything that happened in Q2. The Europe, the debt, the this or that.

For us at Google it has been a great quarter. We have had -- our business has been a great quarter. We have seen no impact of what is going on in the macro world to us. That is why we said for the last three, four quarters -- we have said we are really pleased with how we are performing in this kind of economy. And that is why we feel confident about the future and feel confident about investing now. That is why we are doing it.

DOUG ANMUTH: If I could just follow up quickly on the first one on cash. Can you comment on how much of your cash is international versus in the US?

PATRICK PICHETTE: It is about 50-50.

OPERATOR: Brian Pitz, UBS.

BRIAN PITZ, ANALYST, UBS: Would you talk about your advertiser and user adoption of some of the new product ad formats that we are actually seeing on your site? Are these ads having a material impact on CPCs, because we understand they are being sold on a CPA basis. Thanks.

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: This is Jonathan. I can give you a quick review of the top formats, and then maybe Nikesh can chime in and give you a sense of some of the specific customer experiences that he has had.

The click-to-call adds on the high-end mobile phones are doing very well. The click through rates go up 6% when you put ads with a phone number, 8% when you put a local address. So click-to-call is doing very well.

It is easy to see some of those, if you want to see take a look for yourself. If you try travel agency from a smartphone, you will see them. There are thousands of active campaigns on click-to-call, so you can take a look at that.

Sitelinks is also making pretty good progress. We have given you examples on past calls where you type a big brand like Sears, and then you see the more useful links that you can get through. And the click through rates on those can go up as much as 30% over the ads without the Sitelink. But we changed the way we do Sitelinks, and we have added a new one-line format. And that also allows Sitelinks to show up in more places. You can try Flowers, if you want to see that.

The other format that is getting some adoption is the -- we are adding the seller ratings, which shows merchants' ratings out of six stars aggregated from reviews on the Web. You see that if you look for things like digital cameras. And that is doing pretty well as well.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Nikesh, any further thought?

NIKESH ARORA: No, I guess from an advertiser perspective, they have always had a sense that over the last few years we have actually had some disparity in the quality of our natural search and quality for ads. And things like Sitelinks create tremendous disparity between what people get in natural search and what they get from an ad format. So there is tremendous appetite on our large advertisers to be able to send their consumers or users to a deeper part of their website, which Sitelink allows.

The adoption of Sitelinks, the adoption of click-to-call, a call as Jonathan said, is extremely more lucrative for them, because they can actually track it, and they can actually track the transaction that it creates. So these new ad formats are definitely helping, and are getting out there.

One thing which Jonathan did not touch upon is the ad innovation on the display side as well. We have had tremendous new formats we have launched on the whole YouTube front, where we actually increase the inventory, because we get more and more content where we can show ads on.

In addition to that, we also have a new ad formats, which effectively -- imagine a basic ad, and now getting it to be a auto expandable mass type that shows up on YouTube, which allows us to impact the pricing of the ad format.

So the more richer the ad, the more an advertiser is willing to contribute, because it creates a more engaging experience, and therefore a higher revenue opportunity.

So I think across-the-board the new ad formats are both -- we are seeing more appetite for them. And at the same time they are allowing us to create more return for the advertiser, allowing us to price them better.

OPERATOR: Ross Sandler, RBC Capital Markets.

ROSS SANDLER, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Just two quick questions. Patrick, you said the cost for Android are fairly immaterial, so can you talk about the operating margins in the display business on a revenue ex-TAC basis? How much of the margin compression that you are seeing right now is coming from display growing faster than search?

And then, second question is it looks like the ROW region accelerated a bit in the second quarter, if you strip out the hedging and currency impact. Can you talk about, Nikesh, which regions are driving that? And can you specifically talk about the environment in Europe, given the macro. I know you talked about it for a second earlier, but just any further color about Continental Europe. Thanks.

PATRICK PICHETTE: The display business has, to a certain extent, if you take it as a blended, slightly lower margins, if you take the DoubleClick platform, for example, which is more transactional. But overall I think that they still are quite healthy. They don't -- if you think of CPCs the way I think about them is you have really too big components at work. The innovations that Jonathan talked about, that actually drive CPC up, and then because those products perform better, the ad pressure to be auctioned and therefore drive CPC up.

Then the two or three components that actually drive them down in the short term actually, it is not as much display, as the places like Brazil and India, they are going very well, so internationally. Because they don't have as strong an action right now, their CPCs are slightly lower, but they are growing, so that is positive. Then we already talked about mobile themselves as being lower CPCs.

These are the two that actually are growing incredibly rapidly in that on the mix in the short term they put a bit of a downward spin on the CPC formula. But both of them, as we know, they are growing more rapidly, so it is real dollars net in. And then on top of that, we know there is going to be future pressure on them. So I'm pretty pleased about the performance of those.

On the issue of Europe and FX, it is really -- everybody has got a model out there. We have lived an incredible roller coaster of FX over the last year. So if you look at currencies like the euro and the pound, they were quite similar on par versus year-over-year, but the last quarter versus this quarter, a huge change. Then in addition to that, if you look at places like the real in Brazil, the Canadian dollar, the yen, those have quite increased year-over-year.

So when you do your models relative to FX and [NOI&E], just take in consideration the fact that year-over-year the net net position is -- it has been strengthening all-in. Quarter-over-quarter it has been going down all-in. Then on top of that our FX -- our hedging program is really a long-term hedging program. So this quarter we have reaped $78 million, $79 million of benefits in that.

So it is a tough puzzle to solve, but just please take the time to look at year-over-year and quarter-over-quarter, because it is a puzzle to build. I hope that answers your question.

OPERATOR: Jeetil Patel, Deutsche Bank.

JEETIL PATEL, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Two questions. Do you think that Android and mobile represents a bit of a defensive strategy since you pride yourself on the lack of costs in that business as a whole, and at the same time you're adding headcount as a whole in the Company?

Then second, I guess just curious, the feedback we keep getting in the industry is that the Android infrastructure and support seems to be lower than what, at least your ecosystem would like. I guess what is the appetite to create other revenue streams outside of advertising, inside let's say mobile in the form of let's say an app marketplace that is pretty vibrant? Thanks.

PATRICK PICHETTE: So let me just give the highest level answer is. The answer is, yes, it is both. Obviously, having -- we did it for offensive reasons, not defensive of reasons. We believe that actually open platforms that create the ecosystem where developers can actually create a whole set of new generations of apps is incredibly important.

And in addition to that, we do know that these new formats, like these smartphones, create an entire new set of activities in which you live, and you will search and you will transact. So from that perspective I think that it is obviously both.

I think that -- I take your comment that if the market in general is saying they want more support from us in that space, we are investing heavily because we believe, one, that search advertising, our acquisition of AdMob, by the investments we are making is because for us advertising is completely nascent in this space relative to text search.

Then second is we, ourselves, are doing a lot of innovation to Cloud Computing and others, actually create a whole new generation of apps ourselves. So I think that, yes, defensive, yes, offensive, but in the end benefiting everybody. And I'm glad to hear that you say you want us to invest more in it.

JEETIL PATEL: It seems like your handset vendors are aggressively investing, and we haven't seen it from your side, at least as we talk to some of your partners out there. I guess it seems like -- do you think that other models outside of advertising need to be explored at this point?

PATRICK PICHETTE: I'm not sure I understand your question. Other models such as what?

JEETIL PATEL: Well, let's say, consumer applications. So there are other companies that have created business models around obviously game downloads, other app downloads that are charged. Obviously you have as well, but it seems like you seem to be -- maybe it is early days, but still early in that development.

PATRICK PICHETTE: I think you are absolutely right that it is early days. I think the 70,000 apps that we have is actually a demonstration of the effervescence of that ecosystem that is actually just building now.

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: This is Jonathan. It is at a very nascent stage. I think we also -- there's a lot more infrastructure that needs to be built to support a lot of the commerce. We substantially intend to improve the billing capabilities in the market, and that is obviously one of things that we are investing in pretty aggressively.

But I don't think of this as defensive at all. There is a huge opportunity for incremental usage of search, as I talked about earlier. When we see an opportunity for people searching more, that is obviously something that we want to participate in.

So we see this platform as winning. We think that gives us an opportunity to build the mobile Internet. We think that in the long run that is going to be good for Google; it is going to be good for the applications developers; and it is going to be good for consumers. So we are investing -- we are investing in building that winning platform.

OPERATOR: Steve Weinstein, Pacific Crest.

STEVE WEINSTEIN, ANALYST, PACIFIC CREST: I was hoping you could help explain some of the movement in the P&L expenses. You mentioned that most of the hiring is going into engineering and marketing. When I look at the sequential increase by dollars from the expenses, you actually had a large increase in G&A, about $48 million sequentially. And that is compared to only $20 million in sales and marketing. So can you explain a little bit more -- was there anything in the G&A line that is one-time or not repeatable, or why are they moving like that?

PATRICK PICHETTE: You have to look at -- there is a couple of things. One is our recruiting -- if you go year-over-year and quarter-over-quarter we had three big elements. One is we had -- our recruiting machine that started to build last year was not built in Q2 of last year. So if you think of the hiring infrastructure and the people infrastructure, has actually been building and now you see the full flow-through.

We also have had in G&A in general another area -- if you think of everything else as people -- we have talked about legal. We have had a number of legal costs through this quarter that have also flowed through just because of a number of legal activities that we have taken. So these are the two biggest components that actually would explain the big variances.

OPERATOR: Mark Mahaney, Citigroup.

MARK MAHANEY, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Thank you, two questions please. A year ago you talked about being close to profitability on YouTube, given all the momentum that you have seen over the last year, do you feel like you are a lot closer? Are you profitable with the YouTube asset?

Then secondly, when you sell display ads, do you feel like you are selling them to existing search customers or do you think it has opened up a significantly larger customer pool or a mix of those two? Thank you.

PATRICK PICHETTE: So let me talk about profitability, but Nikesh will have the answer to your second on display.

Look, we don't comment on YouTube. What I can tell you is we are incredibly pleased by its trajectory. YouTube is -- take a step back -- it is 2 billion views per day in its fifth year of existence. It is [1 over] a billion monetization videos per week. It is a huge kind of first page. And it is aggregating audiences, and you see it today through the top brand advertisers showing up for it.

So on the World Cup you saw the Sonys and the Cokes -- this is the power of YouTube today. It is like a worldwide audience. So in that sense I would argue just read in the tea leaves, it is a great business for us.

On the display site, Nikesh.

NIKESH ARORA: Just to add to what Patrick said, to be fair, what display and YouTube has given us, it has allowed us in the case of large search customers to complement the portfolio in terms of being able to offer integrated campaigns, which go all the way from branded sites like YouTube, to networks like the Google display network, and to be able to co-mingle that research.

Not only that, many advertisers now actually co-mingle that with television ads as well as their print program, so you see a much more integrated campaign capability that begins to happen.

We've got examples recently, like Patrick mentioned (inaudible), Sony, Volkswagen at the World Cup. What is interesting is Procter & Gamble has become one of our larger advertisers this quarter. That is primarily driven by the ability of [CPG] companies to both see the value of search in their ability to build a brand, where they have figured out that people research online and purchase research -- sorry, research online, purchase online. We call it the ripple effect.

People like P&G are beginning to see that impact. Other consumer companies are beginning to see that impact. In addition to that we are seeing, like Patrick mentioned the Omnicom deal, which we just announced, agencies are beginning to realize that this is an integrated buy. This is a buy you need to do across multiple properties, not just YouTube, the Google display network and search network, hence the notion of trying to create a trading desk, not just for people like Omnicom, but we have deals in place with publicists and (inaudible), etc. [et al].

OPERATOR: Jason Helfstein, Oppenheimer & Co.

JASON HELFSTEIN, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER & CO.: Can you comment on Android/Chrome as an operating system? So when we think about Android in and of itself on a mobile device, or particularly like on a cell phone, we can see the revenue opportunity over time with ads basically on apps. When you think about Android or Chrome as perhaps an operating system for tablets or for computers, is there ever a revenue opportunity in the software, or should we think of it the same way as we think about Android today? Thanks.

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: This is Jonathan. I think it is probably too early to answer that question. I think we are mostly focused with Android on building out the platform, on getting more smartphones out. And on the Chrome side, we are -- it is still too early to say.

OPERATOR: Scott Devitt, Morgan Stanley.

SCOTT DEVITT, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Regarding paid clicks, up 15% year-over-year, it has been pretty consistently in the teens for almost two years now. I was wondering if you could just talk about maybe the top three or four drivers that is keeping that rate at such a robust level for such an extended period of time. Thank you.

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: This is Jonathan. I think the biggest thing is just the continued secular shift in advertising from things off-line that are not measurable to the ROI-based model of search advertising, where the advertisers can actually see the benefits in the ROI that they are receiving on the money that they are spending.

We did see a good bit of that during the recession. I think there was a disproportionate fraction of budgets that were spent on things where the ROI could be tracked. I think on our side we are doing a lot in terms of ads quality, as I mentioned in my scripted remarks. I think the ad format efforts that both Nikesh and I talked about, also served to increasingly drive clicks.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Just to complement this, I think that we have seen, in fact, I would argue, the paid clicks leave quite a bit over the last couple of years in response to the recession. We have seen that, and we have seen a great recovery in Q1 and Q2 and on a year-over-year basis.

I think that for us what is really interesting is people are searching. People are -- secular trends, as Jonathan said, are happening. And because people are searching, people are clicking. And the quality of the ad network and the products themselves continue to improve. We just see the symbiotic relationship happening.

OPERATOR: Youssef Squali, Jefferies.

YOUSSEF SQUALI, ANALYST, JEFFERIES: Two quick questions. I guess for Patrick. Patrick, as you look at your business needs for the next couple of quarters, do you think that your level of hiring and your level of CapEx, which this quarter had doubled from the prior quarter, is sustainable? Is that the level you need to get to where you want to get to?

Second, what are your views on contextual searches that have been implemented by the other search competitors, and which, at least on the surface seems to have you guys losing some marketshare? Thanks.

PATRICK PICHETTE: I will let Jonathan talk about conceptual search in detail. On the issue of marketshare, just to give highest level answer, there's been a lot of debate about people's methodologies from external sources on marketshare. So I would just -- even the press itself cautioned all these numbers of late. So I would just put the flag out again to say, just be cautious. We are very pleased with our results right now in terms of marketshare and --

YOUSSEF SQUALI: Do you feel you're losing marketshare?

PATRICK PICHETTE: No. And the issue that we have is, if you think of -- now I just want to go back to -- because there has been so much noise on this data, I think it is important is to mention it. If you go back to the fundamentals of hiring and CapEx, CapEx is lumpy. Here is a perfect example of lumpiness, to be able to work in Scandinavia in the winter is difficult. As we said, we are building a data center there. Now it is spring, and we are working there. So we are also adding machines.

It just happens that when you get the generations of chips available and everything is available, then you start rolling out. We had a bit of -- so the lumpiness shouldn't surprise anybody. And I think that everybody that I had discussions with when we were at $189 million or -- it clearly -- also unsustainably low levels. So we are running our plans accordingly. So just stay tuned for CapEx. But it just happened to be lumpy.

In terms of hiring, I think it really is the case that we -- I'm going to take a step back to three quarters ago when we said, look, for us the recession is over. For us we see great products, and we have a mindset of the next half decade and the big platforms we are building that are creating these huge ecosystems. I mean, for us search is one. And then mobile and Android, as we just talked about, is one. Then display is amazing. It is really growing. To not put resources to actually fuel this ecosystem, which is the next decade, it is just such an opportunity. So that is why we are investing aggressively.

We think it is the right thing to do at the moment in the Company. And that is the balance we are striving. Even in Q3, if you think of headcount, we have a lot of people -- sorry, I shouldn't call them kids, but they are people that just graduate from the University, they're going to join us. So there maybe even be -- you can think of the bump of the accepted, but not started, because they're going to go backpacking for the summer before they come and join us.

But ultimately we are looking at a trend of continuing to invest. It is the right thing at this time in the history of the Company. So that is on CapEx and on hiring.

And then on conceptual contextual search if there is something that you want -- you would need a more refined answer for, Jonathan, I'm not sure I understand --.

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: I guess I'm not sure exactly what data you're looking or what examples you are referring to.

YOUSSEF SQUALI: The two main competitors have adopted some processes that in a way inflate their -- the number of searches that are run on their databases. You guys don't do it. I wanted to just know if this is something that you guys may pursue as well or (multiple speakers).

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: Sure, I understand. Right. In general we don't comment on the third-party data. So what you are alluding to are basically the methological problems that have been publicized with respect to auto-roll slideshows that generate.

Basically if you think about it from a search perspective, it is a spurious request, because it is not really an incremental search. So the thing that matters to us is ultimately consummating transactions via conversions that we are sending to advertisers. So what we care about is the number of genuine searches that users are running, where they want to get directly to an answer or a website, or where they are interested in actually clicking on an advertisers' ad.

It wouldn't help us in any respect, other than in generating counts in share data to cause our -- to cause the total number of searches to artificially go up if there wasn't user intent behind them that was of value to our advertisers. So the basic answer to your question is no.

OPERATOR: Jordan Rohan, Stifel Nicolaus.

JORDAN ROHAN, STIFEL NICOLAUS: I would like to do delve a little further into some of the growth that you're seeing in the rest of world territories. Can you talk about how much directionally growth you're seeing out of Asia versus Europe, if that is a breakdown that you're willing to give? If not, can you talk about which countries are really stand out from a growth perspective on the positive side? Thank you.

PATRICK PICHETTE: I will let Nikesh answer that one.

NIKESH ARORA: I would prefer not to talk about regions, because in every region there are countries which do fantastically, there are countries which are challenged. If you were asking about Greece, I wouldn't have to answer the question.

So similarly there are countries like Russia, like Brazil, like India, which are growing fantastically for us and continue to show good growth. It is a combination of more advertisers. It is a combination of the Internet penetration, getting higher. It is a combination of people getting savvier, advertisers getting more and more ready for the e-world.

So we are seeing good growth this quarter. We saw good growth in Brazil, India, Russia, and we saw great growth. Then we saw good growth in many other parts of the world. So even in places like France performed for us wonderfully this quarter. So even these larger markets, places like Australia and New Zealand performed well for us. So I am loath to give an answer on a specific territory. I prefer talking about countries, because I don't know how to go [visit] Asia.

JORDAN ROHAN: Fair enough. Actually it even more helpful. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Sandeep Agarwal, Caris & Company.

SANDEEP AGARWAL, ANALYST, CARIS & COMPANY: Actually, I have two questions. One is, if you look at the sponsored clicks versus CPCs last quarter, paid clicks were up 15%, CPC was up 7%. Sponsored -- paid clicks remained at that same level, but CPC have come down quite a bit. I know some of this is mix shift, maybe some of this is FX. But I guess my question is, is there any competitive dynamics or maybe increasing focus towards organic search or changing user behavior playing any role in terms of some weakness in CPC? And then I have a follow-up.

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: This is Jonathan. I think probably the easier way to answer the question is to just give you my quick observations on the things which are clearly driving -- contributing to driving CPCs on average up versus those that are impacting them in the other direction.

I don't see anything from a user perspective or a share perspective that is obvious that is impacting the overall equation. I think we are seeing on the positive side conversion rates improving, which is driving CPCs up. I think your comment about the relative shift in mix to google.com from AFC does contribute positively to CPC. Google.com is obviously higher, so any mix shift there, everything else being constant, increase CPC.

The obvious things that we have talked about in the past that push it in the other direction, are emerging markets, Brazil, India -- and Nikesh talked about some of those examples earlier -- mobile, growing in the mix. And people increasingly looking for longer tail queries that monetize lower to add into their campaigns. But those are the overall factors.

SANDEEP AGARWAL: And --

PATRICK PICHETTE: Sorry, go on with your follow-up.

SANDEEP AGARWAL: So, Patrick, actually the other revenue actually on a [euro] basis is showing visible slowdown versus last quarter. And you specifically made comments that DoubleClick was very strong. And then based -- also you have Nexus One, which is contributing second quarter in terms of the incremental revenue source.

In spite of these things, other revenue was noticeably slower. So was it because of some kind of slowdown in the (inaudible) enterprise business, or what else is going on there?

PATRICK PICHETTE: No, in essence it is one word. It is Nexus One. So the quarter-over-quarter impact of Nexus One is driving substantially that change.

OPERATOR: Aaron Kessler, ThinkEquity.

AARON KESSLER, ANALYST, THINKEQUITY: A couple of questions. First on China, I just want to clarify, is it your understanding that the government is okay with your new solutions in terms of your search link on this (inaudible)? And just any updates on trends in traffic that you're seeing in China.

Also, just in terms of click-through rates for mobile on sponsored ads, any comparison you can give us there versus how you see click-through rates on PC? Thank you.

PATRICK PICHETTE: So I will answer the China, and then I will let Jonathan talk about the click-through rate mobile versus PC. On China, look, we are basically at the same place when we last discussed, or last time we talked about it, which is we have -- the good news is we have our license renewal.

But apart from that, certainly from a financial perspective, I just want to reiterate to everybody, revenue from China is not material to our revenue. And having said that, we had decent revenues for Q2. So given the sensitivities of everything that is going on with China, I hope you'll understand why I don't want to talk more about it. But we are working very closely to continue to work through this situation.

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: On the click-through rate mobile versus PC. Jonathan, insights?

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: We don't actually break out the relative click-through rates on mobile versus the PC. I mentioned there are new formats and efforts that we have offered that are starting to increase them, like the click-to-call offering.

I think the main thing that is really going to fundamentally have to change there, which is the big difference between mobile and desktop, is that today on a mobile phone people are actually less likely to consummate a transaction, because the logistics of entering a credit card or being signed in on a browser is somewhat more time-consuming and onerous.

So I think that for the mobile system to move very aggressively is going to require more of those commercial transactions actually being taken and placed on the mobile devices.

On the display side, the AdSense for mobile is actually doing very, very well. One of the reasons that is doing well is the opposite of what I just stated in terms of effect. On a mobile device a display ad is something that really gets in your face. The screen is relatively small, so you see it. It is unlike a desktop in that you are not typically doing multiple things at once. So display, I think, is relatively closer to the desktop than is search-based ads.

OPERATOR: Sameet Sinha, JMP Securities.

SAMEET SINHA, ANALYST, JMP SECURITIES: I just wanted to -- if you could comment on this Omnicom deal that you have signed, can you talk about what the ramifications are? What sort of advertisers do you expect will participate? And any other details would be appreciated.

NIKESH ARORA: Yes, sure. You have to understand, as we look at display there are two significant changes that are happening. One is display buying, which traditionally has been advertising -- advertisers buying sites, is slowly and surely shifting to audience buying. So I as an advertiser no longer want to buy Tiffany.com or NewYorkTimes.com only. I want to be able to say, I would like 18-to 35-year-olds who are savvy, who understand technology and who would be interested in my product.

As you go towards that audience by notion, what advertisers are looking for, is they are looking for specific inventory and specific audiences, whichever site they might be on. So it becomes even more important for some sort of trading desk type phenomena to exist, where an advertiser can buy across any publisher they would like to buy.

Now that makes it even more important that you can find some trading desk or trading exchange, where you could have every publisher represented. Because if you have seven different networks it is suboptimal as an industry to have an advertiser have to go to seven different networks to be able to accumulate audiences with different standards, with different ways those seven different networks look like.

So effectively the ad agencies which are buying advertising, advertisers would like to have a common platform, which allows them to buy across these entire networks. That is we are working with Omnicom with, where they believe that if they have the right trading environment set up for the advertisers, it is going to be tremendous value for the advertiser, because advertisers come to a one stop shop and buy across network. Also, allows a tremendous efficiency, because the bestseller advertiser may not be the best acquirer of a publisher.

So, therefore, you can separate that in some sort of an Ad Exchange complex, which is what Omnicom is working with us on. And if you get it right, there is hundreds of millions of dollars at stake in this kind of a deal, because that allows very effective buying across the board on a network, and every player in that ecosystem can get their fair share of the profit.

OPERATOR: Mayuresh Masurekar, Kaufman Brothers.

MAYURESH MASUREKAR, ANALYST, KAUFMAN BROTHERS: Could you talk a little bit about search remarketing? It seems that you are by far the leader in search, so a lot of disparate writers would need Google for doing this well. So what kind of growth or traction have you seen for search marketing? And what is the pricing for this product compared to other display alternatives? Thank you.

NIKESH ARORA: We don't do search remarketing. We do remarketing on the display side. We basically are able to go look at what we call interest-based advertising. We see -- understand that certain users are interested in certain things. We have based on their having chosen to allow us to use that information, we have the ability to then market to them and show them ads.

That is way more effective than blindly trying to show advertising to users. So clearly we are seeing tremendous success in that area. But that is all we do in terms of [premarketing].

MAYURESH MASUREKAR: What is the pricing for this compared to other alternatives?

NIKESH ARORA: The pricing -- look, it is very simple. The more effective the advertising is, the more likely the advertisers are willing to give more money for it. So you should expect the more efficient we make advertising, the more relevant it becomes, the more ROI it generates for advertisers, they are willing to complete more aggressively with other advertisers for the same piece of real estate. So we see that -- we see the effectiveness of that reflected in higher CPCs for that [particular] product.

OPERATOR: Colin Gillis, BGC Financial.

COLIN GILLIS, ANALYST, BGC FINANCIAL: Patrick, on the acquisitions this year, what is the philosophy and the financial discipline used to determine the purchase price? And then separately, was ITA a competitive bid?

PATRICK PICHETTE: I am not going to comment on the last piece. What I'm going to say is, look, we have -- there is a real kind of triangulation between three factors in our strategy for acquisitions. So think of it as talent, intellectual property, and then price.

So what we are looking for is a sweet spot where, when we find teams of people that are -- have clear leadership. That, if you think about it, the venture capital world is actually voted by them surviving as long as they have. And they have, as a team, great talent, engineering talent specifically.

Then on top of that, put the second piece of it, which is what they have proven that they actually have good intellectual property. Whether it be -- whatever the app they are working on or whatever, in the case you just mentioned of ITA, a lot of interesting kind of structure of data.

So the third piece is, obviously, price. There is a price after which it is not worth it to us. Then there is a price -- there is a trade-off on price. What we do is we do -- every one of them, we ask ourselves the question, we look at the intellectual -- and then -- let me put the overarching last bit, which is how does it fit within those four areas that I talked about earlier, which is where we are trying to accelerate our development.

AdMob is a perfect example of that, where great technology, fantastic team, at the right price, that basically take a huge chunk of what was our engineering roadmap and bring it today, integrate it into the team.

Then we have much smaller teams, sometimes of 12 to 15 engineers, that have a great piece -- actually on towards another one like that, when you think about the video codecs.

So it is always a trade-out. There are many cases where we look at them, and we don't buy them, because we can't find the fit somewhere in those three. So that is how we think about it. It is discipline, and we have the debates about them. Sometimes we (inaudible) and we often say no. That is how we think about it.

COLIN GILLIS: There are ample deals that you walk away from just because of the purchase price at the end of the day?

PATRICK PICHETTE: Oh, yes, we do.

COLIN GILLIS: Jonathan, while I've got you on the line, can you just talk a little bit about -- or help as frame how additive are mobile searches? Is there a rate of search growth you could share for users across all devices, maybe tied to the same login?

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: I don't actually have any data, but intuitively I think that they are additive, because -- think about it this way, when you're at your desktop, if you have your PC at your desktop and your mobile phone, you're not going to do the search on your mobile phone. So almost all searches that you are otherwise doing on your desktop, I think you're still going to do in your desktop.

On the other hand, there are times when you are out with your mobile phone and you didn't have your desktop device. And obviously, those are by definition incremental, unless of course, in theory you would remember to go back and do that search when you came back to your desktop.

But I don't think there is much evidence that is the case. I think the vast majority of them are incremental. I think they're also slightly different usage patterns across desktop and mobile. You tend to see more use of the mobile devices on weekends, which is not surprising. But I don't actually have any more specific data that proves those observations or that hypothesis.

COLIN GILLIS: But I would imagine those curves, including the transaction curves, ultimately bend towards each other over time.

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: I guess I don't understand exactly what you're saying.

COLIN GILLIS: Our usage, our mobile usage, and the way we use our mobile, especially as we get more broader band, you have talked about your 4G connections, and our desktop usage. Ultimately there shouldn't be much difference between the two of them over time.

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: Well, I think the mobile usage will grow, and in many ways will be incremental, because you'll be able to do a lot more when you're out in the field. For example, being able to, within a store, scan a barcode with your smartphone, look at the price on the shelf and determine whether or not you actually would prefer to consummate the transaction through a Web-based alternative, and then automatically complete the transaction, is the kind of thing that is all going to be incremental. I think as these devices are able to do more of that, people are going to do it.

COLIN GILLIS: It makes sense. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Heath Terry, FBR Capital Markets.

HEATH TERRY, ANALYST, FBR CAPITAL MARKETS: Patrick, in looking at YouTube beyond views, it is obvious that the majority of those views still aren't being monetized in a significant way. What is standing in the way of more monetization of this inventory, which for the most part still seems to be the user generated content side of things? How significant is it, and does the Viacom ruling change your ability to monetize that inventory?

PATRICK PICHETTE: I am going to let Nikesh give you the kind of high-level answer, and I will circle back on the Viacom (inaudible).

NIKESH ARORA: I am going to let Patrick talk about the Viacom, But you have to understand first of all, YouTube is five years old, so it is a phenomena that has been created over the last five years.

We look at YouTube and we monetize it many different ways. We monetize the homepage of YouTube. We monetize watch pages on YouTube. We do promotion videos. And we are looking at various new ways of looking at how we can put ads into content.

Now part of the process that has been going on, is we have to continue to free up more and more inventory for it to be available for us to advertise on. So we have done a lot of these recently where there was [music societies] around the world in various countries around the world, where we are getting permissions to be able to show advertising in those places, which allow us to create more inventory. So that is the inventory side of things. We believe we are in a good path to continue to create more and more available inventory.

In addition, on the inventory side, we have to now keep getting advertisers to start getting -- giving us quality video advertising, which can be put on to YouTube. My view on this is that we are in the very, very early stages of video advertising. Because what advertisers do, they will splice a video ad that they have created for television, and they will stick it on YouTube.

Now if you understand, YouTube allows you two more things, which television does not. A., it allows you to interact with the ad, which TV does not. And most of the ads on -- video ads so far are not interactive. So they expect as that begins to happen, people will start creating more and more interaction.

The second thing which it allows you to do, it allows you to create some degree of personalization. The ad your grandmother sees and I see and my daughters see may not necessarily be the same ad for anything.

So both those features we think will come into play more and more on the advertising side. So as we get more personalization, more interactivity, as we get more inventory clarified for YouTube, we think that is going to create more monetization opportunities. And you couple that with the previous conversation on display and the ability to buy audiences, that was just provide the icing on the cake as the thing goes forward.

PATRICK PICHETTE: So on my side, look, on the issue of Viacom, we are still in appeal, so I don't want to comment on the specifics. What I can say is two things. Obviously, with more clarity from this judgment, it gives us more room for experimentation that we didn't have before, because until these rules are clear, you don't know exactly where the bar is. With that clear bar, we now have much more room for experimentation.

Then on -- just to comment on if there was ever a great illustration of Nikesh's point a minute ago, just look in the last few weeks about the Old Spice experiment on YouTube. If you have not tried that, just go on YouTube and check Old Spice, about the interactivity of Twitter, Facebook, YouTube and advertising -- it is just absolutely phenomenal. So just gives you a glimpse of where the world is going. And it tells you again about we're just scratching the surface.

HEATH TERRY: Thank you.

PATRICK PICHETTE: We will go to the next question.

JANE PENNER: Operator, we have time for one more question.

OPERATOR: Richard Fetyko, Merriman and Company.

RICHARD FETYKO, ANALYST, MERRIMAN AND COMPANY: If you break down the components of your display strategy and revenue streams, how would you rank the revenue opportunity of each between YouTube, AdSense, display network and the Ad Exchange in the long term?

PATRICK PICHETTE: I will net let Nikesh answer it.

NIKESH ARORA: I think it is very important to understand that all of these things work to complement each other. The Ad Exchange allows a buyer to buy across multiple networks. So without an Ad Exchange, it makes it very inefficient for advertising to be bought, and therefore the pipe is not going to grow as fast now. So you want to make sure you can create some consistency and standardization in the way display advertising has been bought if you want to take the big TV dollars to start coming into display, as they had been in the early years.

I think the Google display network is our ability to prove that we can create a network of around -- of multiple publishers and create premium capability for our advertisers to be able to target those publishers.

Last, but not the least, YouTube becomes our owned and operated properly, property, sort of like us operating google.com and our Google network. So clearly the margins on our owned and operated properties are higher. And that allows us to have a premium property in the space. And it also allows us to accumulate tremendous amount of content, which they can then get offers for advertising.

So you have to understand, all these three are very relevant to the overall strategy. I am not trying to prioritize any one ever the other, but clearly, YouTube being able to monetize, bringing more TV dollars into YouTube is fantastic. Google display network being able to monetize that opportunity across multiple publishers is great. And without [Addax], which is the glue that will bind all these networks together, it is hard to see that industry growing as fast as we would like to see it grow.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Let me give -- if you allow me the CFO answer, these are each and every one of them billions of dollars of revenue opportunities. They are not hundreds of million, they are billions -- the way we think about it in terms of addressable market, this is already a $20 billion industry that is growing very fast. And so for us, every one of them we (inaudible). That is why, again, we continue to invest in the total ecosystem.

Listen, we have had -- so thank you very much for all of your questions. I want to thank Nikesh and Jonathan again for joining me. I wish to thank every Googler that is on the call listening to us. Our engineers, our sales force, our support staff, all these people, I mean, every 90 days we look at our results and we continue to be so pleased. But it is really the great hard work of all our Googlers. So from that perspective, I just want to give two thumbs up again to the Googlers for a fantastic job over in Q2.

With that in mind, I would turn it back over to Connie. I wish you a great summer, everyone. And we will talk to you in Q3. Connie, you can close the call, please.

OPERATOR: Thank you. And this concludes today's conference. We thank you for your participation.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
goog : Google Inc.
   IN
ividad : Video Advertising | ismart : Smart Phones | icellph : Cellular/Mobile Phones | i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i3441 : Telecommunications Equipment | i34411 : Mobile Communications Equipment | i3454 : Electronic Consumer Goods | i7902 : Telecommunications | i838 : Advertising | i8385 : Electronic Advertising | iadv : Advertising/Public Relations/Marketing | icnp : Consumer Products | idurhg : Durable Household Products | ielec : Electronics | ihandaps : Handheld Electronic Devices | ihome : Home Electronics/Appliances | imark : Marketing | i8395464 : Internet Search Engines | iint : Internet/Online Services
   NS
cmarkr : Market Research | c32 : Advertising | gcon : Consumer Affairs | ccrm : Customer Relationship Management | ereal : Real Estate Markets | cbrand : Branding | c11 : Plans/Strategy | c15 : Performance | c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | c31 : Marketing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | glife : Living/Lifestyle | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020100729e67f001jm
  


 HD
 Q1  2010 Google Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
12,774 words
   PD
15 April 2010
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©010 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
OPERATOR: Good day and welcome to the Google Inc. conference call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time I would like to turn the call over to Ms. Maria Shim, Investor Relations. Please go ahead, ma'am.

MARIA SHIM, IR, GOOGLE: Good afternoon, everyone, and welcome to today's first-quarter 2010 earnings conference call. With us are Patrick Pichette, Chief Financial Officer; Jeff Huber, Senior Vice President of Engineering; Susan Wojcicki, Vice President of Product Management, and Nikesh Arora, President of Global Sales Operations and Business Development.

   TD
Also, as you know, we are now disturbing our earnings release exclusively through our newly revamped Investor Relations website located at investor.google.com. So going forward please refer to our IR website for our earnings releases, as well as supplementary slides that accompany the call. This call today is also being webcast from investor.google.com. A replay of this call will also be available on our website in a few hours.

Now let me quickly cover the Safe Harbor. Some of the statements we make today may be considered forward-looking, including statements regarding investments in our innovation agenda, expected performance of our business, and our expected level of capital expenditures. These statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially and reflect our opinions only as of the date of this presentation. We undertake no obligation to revise or publicly release the results of any revision to these forward-looking statements in light of new information or future events.

Please refer to our SEC filings, including our annual report on Form 10-K, for the year ended December 31, 2009, as well as our earnings press release for a more detailed description of the risk factors that may affect our results. Copies can be obtained from the SEC or by visiting investor.google.com.

In addition, certain financial measures we use on this call such as operating profit and operating margin are discussed on a non-GAAP basis and have been adjusted to exclude charges related to stock-based compensation. We have also adjusted our net cash provided by operating activities to remove capital expenditures, which we refer to as free cash flow. Our GAAP results and GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliations can be found in our earnings press release.

Now with that, I will now turn the call over to Patrick.

PATRICK PICHETTE, SVP & CFO, GOOGLE: Thank you, Maria. Good afternoon, everyone. It is Patrick Pichette speaking. Thank you for joining us.

Starting the new year provides us with a great opportunity to tune and streamline our quarterly earnings communications. So, as a result, we have today for you a new format for the call.

First, the two calls we had last year will be merged into a single call going forward and a slightly longer for the Q&A. Second, Eric will not be joining us going forward, so I will be leading the call.

In the new format, Jonathan Rosenberg and I will review the quarter with prepared remarks, and then Nikesh Arora, our head of Global Sales and Operations, will be joining us for Q&A. Unfortunately today Jonathan could not be with us, but, however, what we have is Jeff Huber, our Senior Vice President of Engineering for Apps, and Susan Wojcick, our Vice President for Advertising Products, sitting in for Jonathan.

So here we go. Let me start by giving you some high-level thoughts about our situation at Google before I go into the details of our Q1 performance. As we enter 2010, it is really clear that digital economy, it continues to grow rapidly, and at Google our users and advertisers all have continued to benefit from this profound and positive trend.

Our Q1 results are simply a reflection of these trends, and this really fuels our optimism as we continue to invest in innovation for the long run. Consequently we are continuing to invest heavily in people, products and acquisitions. So you see this already in our results for Q1. On people we have already stepped up hiring, which is evident obviously with the numbers we presented, and we expect to continue hiring aggressively through the year. We have a strong pipeline of candidates primarily focused on engineering and sales, and we are on-boarding them to fuel our growth agenda as fast as possible.

On product we continue really to push the envelope on two fronts. First, we're intensely focused on user experience. Our continued success really depends on delighting users with differentiated products that really inspire. Think of Google Goggles, for example.

Second, we are continuing to improve our ads business to show the right ad in the right format to the right person at the right time, all this regardless of device. Susan and Jeff will really cover each in the coming minutes both of these sections.

Finally, acquisitions. We have been very active so far this year, and we have a strong M&A pipeline in place. It is really designed to build on our existing focus areas and to bring new talent and new technology to Google, feeding our entrepreneurial spirit. It really matters to us.

So in sum, we continue to be incredibly excited by the opportunities in front of us, and in consequence you should expect to see continued investment in each of these areas.

On the business front, Q1 was really a strong quarter. The healthy momentum from Q4 and the general economic recovery has simply continued, resulting in a very positive start to the new year for us. Large advertisers have come back in force versus last year, reflecting really an improved economy and a few really key important trends.

So, for example, it is clear now that our offerings are much broader in scope, and by this I mean they offer highly measurable but also integrated campaigns across search, display and mobile. As a result, our conversation with advertisers are becoming more and more strategic because of this integration, and you can see this in our results and our performance.

By this I mean we performed well across every major product area, including search, display, mobile and enterprise in Q1, running on all cylinders. For search google.com was very strong. Great performance across all geographies and all major verticals, including retail, travel, local, technology and finance.

Growth in display was also really strong. Q4 momentum continued to across all regions, products and channels. The Google content network was strong, driven by increased demand in consumer package goods and entertainment. The Ad Exchange is also gaining great traction as we move all buyers and sellers into the latest version of the platform. And finally, we saw very impressive growth on YouTube with several exciting new content deals signed.

Mobile, the third axis, another great very important area for Google, is also growing very nicely, benefiting from both a continued growth in the smartphone volumes and Internet users and usage on the hand mobile devices.

Finally, enterprise recently launched a host of successful integrations, including a large deployment at, for example, KLM, just one example among many. All this great performance is reflected in our financial results and our trajectories.

So I will now, if you will allow me, go through our results quickly.

So financially gross revenue grew 23% year-over-year to $6.8 billion. Google website's revenue grew up 20% year-over-year to $4.4 billion with strength, as I mentioned, across all major geographies and verticals. Our AdSense revenue was up 24% year-over-year to $2 billion, reflecting again our continuous strengths in the Google content network, an important part of our display business.

Other revenue was also up 68% year-over-year to $300 million, and that includes the revenue from the sales of our Nexus One product. Global aggregate paid click growth remained healthy, up 15% year-over-year and up 5% quarter over quarter. Aggregate costs per click growth was up 7% year-over-year but down 4% quarter over quarter.

You should know that FX had a positive impact on the year-over-year on CPC growth and also a negative impact quarter-over-quarter. A lot of movement in FX year-over-year and quarter-over-quarter. Remember, too, that this is an aggregate number, which includes both google.com but also the AdSense properties.

Turning to our geographic performance, revenue from the US was up 22% year-over-year to $3.2 billion. In our earning slides, which you will find on our Investor Relations website, you will see that we have broken down our revenue by US, UK and rest of world to show the impact of FX and the benefits from our hedging programs. So please refer to those slides for the exact calculations.

International revenue accounted for 53% of our total revenue or $3.6 billion, up 24% year-over-year, which includes $10 million in benefits from our hedging programs, and this is a big difference compared to $154 million of benefits in Q1 of last year. Using fixed exchange rates, our international revenue would have been roughly $242 million lower year-over-year. Finally, the UK was up 15% year-over-year to $842 million. So very strong performance right across the board on the revenue.

Let me turn to expenses for a moment. Traffic acquisition costs were $1.7 billion or 26% of total advertising revenue. The other cost of revenue was $741 million, including stock-based compensation of $6 million, which also expenses related to the sale of Nexus One.

Finally, all operating expenses totaled $1.8 billion, including approximately $285 million of stock-based compensation. The increase year-over-year in OpEx was primarily due to increases in payroll and advertising and promotion expense. As a result of all this, our non-GAAP operating profit, which does exclude stock-based compensation, increased to $2.8 billion in Q1, resulting in non-GAAP operating margin of 41% up approximately 180 basis points year-over-year. Headcount was up 800 approximately versus Q4 of last year, ending the quarter with approximately 20,600 full-time employees.

Finally, our effective tax rate 22% for Q1.

For a minute let me turn to cash management. Other income and expenses was $18 million for Q1, which includes great progress in our portfolio management performance, but also largely offset by the timing and accounting impact of hedging expenses associated with the FASB 133. For more detail on OI&E, again please refer to the slides that accompany this call on our IR website.

So all of this turns out into operating cash flow, which was very strong at $2.6 billion. CapEx for the quarter $239 million, again primarily related to our data center operations. As a reminder, CapEx is lumpy from quarter to quarter, depending on where we are able to make these investments. Free cash flow finished the quarter with a strong $2.3 billion.

So, in summary, we are very pleased with the performance in Q1 across revenue, margins and cash flow. As a result, we are very optimistic and, therefore, pushing ahead with significant investments as I outlined to you a few moments ago.

Finally, let me remind you, as I do every year at this time, that our revenue typically exhibits some seasonality between Q1, Q2 and Q3 because of the coming summer months.

With that and before we open it up to questions, we will have Susan and Jeff cover their comments, and then we will come back to Q&A. Thank you and I will turn it to Susan.

SUSAN WOJCICKI, VP, PRODUCT MANAGEMENT, GOOGLE: Thanks, Patrick. I would like to take this opportunity today to talk about some of the big areas of investment in our advertising business -- search, display and mobile -- and how they are going so far. We see a lot of opportunity to innovate in these categories and to make the ads better and more useful. As we expand to new kinds of inventory beyond search, our goal is to enable high performance cross media campaigns from within AdWords.

Let me start with search. Starting about a year ago, we asked ourselves why do search ads just have to be text links. In organic search the right result might be a video, a book, or an update from a social network. We call this universal search. But ads are also information. They are commercial information, and in many cases it may be more useful to the user and the advertiser if we show a video or a picture or a product in the ad.

For example, if you search on the query HP all-in-one printer, some of the ads now include pictures of HP printers, prices and where you can buy them. Or if you are looking for a movie and you search on the losers, the ad may give you the option to watch the movie trailer right within the ad.

Other ads, which we call Sitelinks, enable advertisers to drive traffic to specific parts of their site. The query Toys "R" Us is a good example of this with links to products the retailer is promoting such as Nerf toy specials or pre-ordering Barbies. The idea is to make the add more useful and therefore higher performing, and so far they are doing very well. Click-through rates on Sitelinks, for example, are up as much as 30% to 40%.

We also want to give advertisers more data and insight into their campaigns and customers. Users usually go through a progression of searches and can interact with a number of ads before actually buying the product.

For example, a user may search and click on ads first for a digital camera and then on Canon before actually clicking on an ad for the Powershot S90 and buying the camera. To help use advertisers optimize for this behavior, we have launched a new reporting feature this quarter called the Search Funnel, which tells advertisers about those earlier searchers and the ads the users interacted with earlier in the buying process. By thinking about the right portfolio of key words, advertisers can maximize their conversion.

Moving on to our display business, we have seen very strong momentum. We are investing heavily in three different areas -- our platform, which includes the DoubleClick suite of products, our Ad Exchange, and our content network and YouTube. We are bringing the performance, efficiency and measurability to the display world like we did with search, which we believe can overall grow the display market and benefit everyone.

On the platform side this quarter, we have launched the largest Google and DoubleClick integration to date, a new version of DoubleClick for publishers which has been rewritten on Google technologies. The new version gives publishers more data and better tools to manage and maximize their return directly and indirectly sold ad space.

We are also doubling down on our new Ad Exchange, the second pillar in our display strategy. It is ramping nicely, and publishers and advertisers are getting great results. Some publishers are increasing their yields by as much as 130% when compared to ads sold directly to ad networks.

One of the key features that we are very excited about on the new exchange is real-time bidding, which enables advertisers to bid on an impression by impression basis using their own data. By bringing this level of efficiency to display advertising buying, everyone wins.

And third on the content network, we have introduced a number of new features in the past year. It is a long list -- intraspace advertising, frequency capping, above the fold targeting, new measurement tools, and many new formats among other features. Combined they create a compelling platform for display advertisers to reach users globally. This quarter we added a new feature that I would like to talk about called re-marketing. Re-marketing enables advertisers to show ads to users who have visited their website or their YouTube channel.

So if you're shopping around for a vacation destination or go to one resort site and then leave, when you visit another site in our network, that resort could show you an ad with a discount coupon. As a user, this means I can get a much more compelling ad. As an advertiser, it is an opportunity to connect with interested users.

Mobile is also doing very well. This will be an increasingly important form of advertising as users transition to smartphones with full browsers. We want to make it easier for advertisers to extend their existing campaigns to mobile rather than having to start from scratch. What advertisers run on desktop and mobile, we enable them to separate their campaign stats by desktop or mobile to understand their mobile performance. Many of them are surprised by how much mobile activity they have received. Based on this information, they can decide how to customize their mobile campaigns going forward.

We also rolled out new formats and targeting options specific for mobile. This quarter we launched a click-to-call feature that automatically puts a phone number in the ad that is running on a smartphone. So if you're looking for auto insurance and do that query from your Android or iPhone, the ads will include a call, a number to call. Not surprisingly, this has increased click-through or should I say call-through. I'm just scratching the surface of all the innovations our ad team is working on, but I have to hand it over to Jeff now.

Thank you.

JEFF HUBER, SVP, ENGINEERING, GOOGLE: Thanks, Susan. Across all our products, we push ourselves to continually innovate. We believe in open platforms that encourage everyone else to push innovation, too. Our efforts in mobile are a great example of this at work.

Eric Schmidt mentioned in a speech at the Mobile World Conference in Barcelona in February that we are taking a mobile first approach to most everything we do. That means doing things that take advantage of the unique characteristics of mobile smartphones.

One of those is that your smartphone knows where you are, your location. So this quarter we launched a feature called Near Me Now that essentially turns your location into the search query. If you go to Google.com from a smartphone, you will see the Near Me Now link right under the search box. Click on it to see restaurants, cafes, shops, gas stations, ATMs and other things of interest that are closest to you.

Another common use case is where you are searching for something at home and then want to find it again when you're out and about. Our new stars in search feature helps out there. You do a search, say, for a chili recipe, and when you find a great result, you click on the star next to it. Later when you are at the grocery store to pick up the ingredients, you just repeat the search with your smartphone, which is easy to do with the Suggest feature. Just type the first character or two, the query will pop up, or with voice search, which is increasingly ubiquitous across the platforms, and that starred result shows right up at the top.

The same starred results now work on maps, too. Do a search at home or work like on an ad res or for a restaurant, click a star next to the right result and that star shows up in your map on the smartphone, making it easy to get directions or get more information about it. These are small features in some ways, but a big innovation in how smartphones can integrate into your everyday life.

Our open platforms, Android and Chrome, are gaining a lot of momentum. Android is now powering 34 devices, which is up 70% quarter over quarter, from 12 different OEMs. And over 60,000 Android devices are sold and activated every day.

Our whole mantra with Android is open. First, the Android OS itself is open for partners to modify and extend on their own. Then the Android market for apps is open for all developers, which is driving a lot of growth and great apps. We are now at over 38,000 apps, up 70% quarter over quarter. The net effect is to make Web-ready smartphones more widely available. It is helping drive a lot of mobile search and apps usage.

Chrome is also growing really well, mostly driven by technical innovations in performance and its security relative to other browsers. A new Chrome feature we launched just a couple of weeks ago helps address language as a barrier to Web use around the world. Chrome can now automatically translate any page you are viewing into any one of 52 different languages. So if you're an English speaker and want to read the local news in Paris, you can go to LeMonde.fr, and Chrome will offer to translate the page for you.

Uptake has been great. We are already translating over 60 million pages per day. If we can help knock down the language barrier through innovative features like this, the Web becomes a lot more accessible and useful for everyone around the world.

Our latest open ecosystem effort is the apps marketplace for Google apps. Many of our enterprise customers want to move more of their operations to the cloud, including applications that Google does not offer like CRM, accounting, project management, workflow automation, HR, the list goes on. The apps marketplace has had thousands of enterprise apps purchased and installs ready, all integrated with the Google Apps experience.

Finally, we are looking forward to our new Google I/O Developer Conference coming up in May. I/O sold out in just a few days as developers know that in the event's short history we have used it to announce some pretty amazing, things in addition to covering a huge amount of content on how they can innovate with and leverage Google's open platforms. When you open up the Web and unleash the passion and innovation of thousands and thousands of developers, great things happen.

Thanks for your time. Back to Patrick.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thank you, Jeff, and thank you, Susan. So what we will do now is I will invite Nikesh also to join us and ask Maria to open up the call for questions, and then Maria will direct the questions for us.

MARIA SHIM: Operator, can we start taking questions, please?

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). James Mitchell, Goldman Sachs.

JAMES MITCHELL, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Two questions and I apologize because one of them is really nitpicky. But in your cash flow statement, you have got a repurchase of stock minus $97 million. And I thought that Google would not buy back stock until the AdMob acquisition was complete.

And then second question is, with regard to domestic and international revenue, it is great that your domestic revenue is growing almost as fast now as your international revenue. But it's also a little bit surprising to me. Is that primarily because you have got more new activities like Nexus One contributing domestically than internationally, or does that reflect a more V-shaped recovery domestically than internationally?

PATRICK PICHETTE: So I will take the first question, and then I will let Nikesh answer the second one. On the first one it is because when we bought On2, what we wanted to do is -- it was a shared transaction you will remember. And because it was a shared transaction, we decided to actually re-buy back the shares thereafter to make it a cash transaction. So it is that simple for that transaction.

For the international, Nikesh?

NIKESH ARORA, PRESIDENT, GLOBAL SALES OPERATIONS AND BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT, GOOGLE: Yes, thanks for your question. I think it is a combination of the things you are suggesting a bit more. We are seeing a better recovery in the domestic market definitely if you look at the comps from last year. Clearly the numbers look much better. We are seeing tremendous activities from our large advertisers who are coming back in droves and actually reconfirming their faith in search advertising. So that is all working.

Plus, many of our product innovations start in the US, which allows us to drive those revenues faster in the US.

Having said that, internationally our revenues did not take as material a dip as relative to the US. So clearly the comps are much stronger on the international side. And it is a basket of many, many, many countries. So we are seeing recovery in some of the major markets. Some of the markets are still not on that curve of recovery as we are seeing in some of the more mature, larger markets in Europe.

PATRICK PICHETTE: But we are very happy with both trajectories. Thanks for your question.

OPERATOR: Mark Mahaney, Citi.

MARK MAHANEY, ANALYST, CITI: What percentage of your revenue now would come from mobile display and enterprise gross basis? Secondly, is Nexus One as a group profitable? And third, could you give us a little color on these CPC rates? Given the dramatic falloff in conversion rates due to the economy in the fourth quarter of '08, first quarter of '09, is it reasonable to expect that perhaps CPCs would risen more? Is there something else we should think about as tempering the growth in CPCs now?

PATRICK PICHETTE: Great. Remind me of your first question?

MARK MAHANEY: What percentage of your revenue comes from mobile display and enterprise combined?

PATRICK PICHETTE: Okay. So that one unfortunately we cannot give you. We do not divulge that kind of information. On the Nexus One and then Susan can give you the answer on CPC. On the Nexus One, it is a profitable business for us. We don't give more details on the economics, but we are driving the business to be a profitable business from the get-go.

So on CPC maybe Susan can give us more comments as to what is going on.

SUSAN WOJCICKI: Sure. I will give a couple of comments about the CPCs. So I think there are a number of trends that we see. I think it is important to remember, first of all, that the CPC and the numbers that we release are an aggregate number. And so there are a couple of things happening.

One of them has to do with the growth rates of the different regions and CPCs being different in the different regions. The second thing, which I believe is a long-term positive for Google but maybe reflected in the CPC number here, is that we are releasing a lot of tools to enable advertisers to try to find more what I will call long tail keywords. So keywords that they might not have been bidding on before hand and that they might not be the more competitive ones, and so, as a result, the CPCs may vary. And we believe long-term that is good because we're are actually selling more keywords, and the auctions are becoming more competitive but it may change the mix.

OPERATOR: Ben Schachter, Broadpoint AmTech.

BEN SCHACHTER, ANALYST, BROADPOINT AMTECH: A few questions. One, do you expect to continue to be the follow-up search provider on Apple products going forward? And then if I look at the quarter correctly, it looks like you hired about 800 people. Is there anything unique about that number that is roughly the right number you think you're going to be hiring on a go forward basis?

And then finally, if there is any other particular comments you could make around Eric not being on the call and anything else that we should read into that. Thanks.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Why don't we take them in reverse order. Eric is everywhere. Eric is in every public -- I mean I have seen him in Abu Dhabi and then fly across to DC the next day. He is everywhere.

So the fact that we just decided to streamline our process just for earnings does not mean that Eric is not available, and he is clearly leading as spokesperson the strategy of the Company. So he's very transparent and everywhere.

So on that point it was just simply an issue of kind of streamlining and making more focus on financial results for this call. You should not read any more or less than that in this decision.

On the 800 people, look, we have talked about ever since last summer that we are trying to ramp up our machine to hire back specifically in engineering, specifically in the support of sales where we see great opportunities. And it takes a couple of quarters to ramp up the machine so that we get the levels that we want. So we are very pleased with the hires we have done.

The bar at Google, let me re-emphasize that, has not changed. It is incredibly high. But we're very pleased of the onboarding that we have seen this quarter, and now that this infrastructure is in place, you can expect us to continue to invest heavily in this form. And we have so many projects that we would love to have more engineers right now that we would like to fuel our growth. But it is really paramount to us to continue to focus on it.

On the Apple, maybe Jeff can comment. Mute?

JEFF HUBER: Yes, we cannot speculate on the specific relationship around search. We have historically had a strong relationship with Apple across a number of different areas, and we hope to and look forward to continuing that in the future.

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Imran Khan, JPMorgan.

IMRAN KHAN, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: I have two questions. One question is about paid clicks growth rate. So considering that mobile is growing significantly faster and some of the international countries growing significantly faster, paid clicks growth rate is 15%. Is it fair to assume that the domestic paid clicks growth rate has decelerated significantly? And can you give us some color how should we think about the domestic paid clicks growth rate?

And secondly, question is more of a long-term threat to Google. If we look at third-party data, it seems like Facebook and other social networking sites while still very low are becoming a bigger part. They are growing significantly faster as a traffic source to a lot of your customers like eBay. How do you think Facebook or other social networking sites is a big long-term threat to Google's business model?

PATRICK PICHETTE: So why don't I let Jeff talk about the issue of Facebook, and then Susan can cover the CPC growth rate. Susan, do you want to start? Or Jeff? Okay, Jeff, start.

JEFF HUBER: With regards to other folks out there, I guess our net view is that we don't see things as a zero sum game whatsoever. Looking at the Internet and the vibrancy and rate of growth across the Internet, other people are growing. We are very happy with our growth. So we don't see that as a significant issue.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Susan?

SUSAN WOJCICKI: Yes, I will comment on the page click growth. Overall I think we have been very happy with the number and the growth that we have seen. And it is a result of a number of things. Certainly the advertisers coming back, some of the largest advertisers spending more money on Google, as well as the growth across the board in all regions. But with also some of the new ad formats that I spoke about have brought more clicks to advertisers because they are coming up with formats that are more compelling for users and offering information that is very useful for the users onboard, and that is causing a lot of growth in paid clicks.

PATRICK PICHETTE: In closing on that one, the bottom line is we see it everywhere. It is not one versus another, and that is true for both of the questions that you have asked.

OPERATOR: Justin Post, Bank of America.

JUSTIN POST, ANALYST, BANK OF AMERICA: Two things. Last year you were able to give us some inter-quarter guidance about how our quarter started and ended. Do you feel better about a trajectory of year-over-year growth exiting the quarter than you did entering the quarter?

And then secondly, on marketing spend I think it is up 48% year-over-year, excluding stock-based comp. I always thought of you as more of a technology-driven company. Why so much marketing spend, and can you talk about maybe your ROI thinking about it, or what is it really going to get for Google?

PATRICK PICHETTE: Yes, so on the latter one, on the marketing spend, look, it is clear that we have opportunities, and I will give you a couple of examples. One is there is a ballot in Europe right now for Chrome, or there are markets in which there's a lot of appetite for on-boarding customers, and so we get great ROIs. And, Nikesh, maybe you have additional comments.

NIKESH ARORA: I think it is important to understand, our marketing spend for the most part is ROI-based. If you look at -- we spend marketing dollars to go and acquire advertisers on our B2B side. We spend marketing dollars to promote various products. So it's very clear for us to understand for each dollar we spend what return we get in terms of long-term value from each customer that is acquired for (inaudible) products which creates additional monetization across our properties. So you can expect us to spend marketing dollars as and when we see it is relevant for our long-term strategy to have lots more users for our products and lots more advertisers.

PATRICK PICHETTE: In closing on that one, if you think of G&A in general at ,Google you'll find that our G&A is actually at 20 percentage of revenue. I mean it is not moving that much. And what you see is a shift between regular G&A is actually going down, which is the good news. And you are seeing, if we have an incremental dollar in the great -- as Nikesh said, good ROI base, I mean we should take the opportunity on that.

As it relates to your first question on -- we don't give comments. We had such a crisis in the last 18 months that back then it may have made some sense to give some color about quarters. But clearly Q4 to Q1 we just look at the level of economic activity, and it is continuing to pick up, which is a great benefit to Google.

OPERATOR: Doug Anmuth, Barclays Capital.

DOUG ANMUTH, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: The first question is on the Nexus One, and in particular can you comment on how many phones you sold during the quarter and if possible you could change the distribution plan going forward so that they actually are in stores rather than just online?

And then secondly, can you comment on China as well and perhaps give us any update there in terms of what you are seeing and any thoughts you might have on what percentage of the business or percentage of the revenue you might be able to hold onto in that market going forward?

PATRICK PICHETTE: So I will let Jeff answered the Nexus and then I will cover China.

JEFF HUBER: We are not disclosing the specific number of Nexus One devices sold. We are very happy with the device uptake and the kind of impact that has had across the industry of raising the bar and people's expectations of what a great smartphone can do. I did earlier mention that across the Android landscape that we are seeing more than 60,000 devices sold in activations daily. On stores, sorry, we cannot comment anything about that right now.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Let me comment on China. Look, we have made -- we have explained to people that the revenue numbers for China were kind of immaterial to the financial performance of the Company in the previous blogs and communications. The bottom line, though, on China this was a tough situation where we really believe we have made the right decision.

Google stands for really important values like openness, user choice, protection of privacy, and these are -- in a Company that remains true to its values, that is what you do. You make a decision that was driven by those values.

Having said that, what we have announced a few weeks ago right or a few days ago clearly has us staying in China. I mean we have just changed our strategy and adapted our strategy, but our engineering force remains in China and will continue to develop great products. We continue to keep our sales force in place because there is still an export market and then a lot of opportunity in China for sales, and what we have done is move back to Hong Kong for search where we can offer it uncensored. So from that perspective, you should see a lot of positive moves on the base of Google but made the right call.

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Brian Pitz, UBS.

BRIAN PITZ, ANALYST, UBS: Can you give us an update on where you are in terms of renewing your distribution deal with News Corp.? And then a quick question on mobile. Is there a Plan B if AdMob does not go through, and also can you comment on whether you see mobile services eventually being delivered essentially through the browser much like the PC rather than individual application downloads?

PATRICK PICHETTE: Let me just comment on AdMob, and then Susan will probably give more commentary on the monetization. But the case for AdMob is there is overwhelming evidence that the mobile advertising industry both in terms of platforms and providers, it is nascent. It is incredibly competitive. It did not exist 24 months ago. There's dozens of ad networks out there. And even last week you may have heard that there was an announcement from Apple that they were starting their own. I mean it is incredibly competitive, and that is why we believe that actually we are very positive about making this transaction happen. That case is on our side.

Now on the specifics of monetization, maybe Susan can give a bit more color commentary.

SUSAN WOJCICKI: Well, I was just going to comment since you asked about Plan B. I will tell you that Google does have a monetization product for monetizing mobile applications, AdSense for mobile applications, and that is a product that we are investing in and we have seen good growth with that one. But I just want to reiterate the point that Patrick said, which is that we see this as a very new and nascent market. It is less than two-years-old, and there is a lot of competition in this market. So we are continuing to work with the FTC on AdMob.

Your other comment was about ad applications versus Web, and Google is investing and believes that HTML 5 has an opportunity to enable a lot richer applications on the Web. And that is something that we are investing in, and we will see over time how applications and HTML 5 both developed.

NIKESH ARORA: And let me go back to the very first question you asked, I think the News Corp. question was around (multiple speakers) the MySpace deal. Look, we are working -- Google wants every partner in the sense that it is good for the ecosystem. It is good for our partners. It gives them opportunities for monetization. We are in negotiations right now of a deal that is going to be renewed. And these deals were, like in the case of that specific one, was done a number of years ago with completely different industry dynamics. So we're working with them to find a real win-win, and you just stayed tuned for when we have an announcement.

OPERATOR: Spencer Wang, Credit Suisse.

SPENCER WANG, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Just to two quick questions. First, on the paid click growth, which is up 15% year over year, that actually re-accelerated for the first time in a couple of years. So I was wondering, Susan, if you could just give us a sense of what is driving that? Is it a combination of Sitelinks? How much of it is mobile, etc.?

And then secondly, just for Patrick, G&A looks like stock comp was actually down year over year. Is that the rough right absolute level we should be thinking about for the rest of the year?

PATRICK PICHETTE: Do you want to comment first, Susan?

SUSAN WOJCICKI: Yes, on paid clicks. I think it is a combination of a lot of different factors, and it is really important to remember that this is also an aggregate number across all of our businesses. So, as we saw advertisers come back and start spending again, driven by a lot of our largest advertisers, really increasing their spend, as well as Google and the ads team bringing a lot of new types of products to market in terms of the Sitelinks product, which had not just one place to click but multiple places to click, we started seeing advertisers have higher click-throughs. And so all of those higher click-throughs that I talked about do manifest themselves in terms of the aggregate paid click number. Mobile is a component of many different types of inventory that Google is expanding to to increase the overall paid click number.

PATRICK PICHETTE: On the G&A, Spencer, the short answer is, we are going to continue to be disciplined just like you see in the ramp -- the run rate and the ramp-ups that you see. So we are very disciplined. This place continues to be frugal in many ways.

On the other side, right, we are hiring. We are hiring, and it is obviously lumpy. So the point is we are every time I can find another great engineer to add to the Chrome OS platform, I'm going to hire him. We are going to hire them. Google needs them. On the flip side, there is a lot of discipline around. It's not like you do whatever you want around here. There is discipline.

OPERATOR: Ross Sandler, RBC.

ROSS SANDLER, ANALYST, RBC: Two quick questions for the cash. If you look at year-over-year growth in the UK versus ROW on an organic basis, they are about the same. Can you talk about what areas in ROW are outperforming and which ones are underperforming?

And you had mentioned a couple a month or two ago that there was some paid click cleanup in the fourth quarter. Was there any of that in 1Q, and can you talk about the growth rate of O&O clicks versus -- or Google website clicks versus partner site clicks?

PATRICK PICHETTE: In terms of UK versus rest of the world, I think rest of the world for us performs even better than the UK did in the last quarter.

Having said that, as I mentioned, there are parts to the rest of the world which are continuing to perform really well for us. Places like Brazil, which we talked about last quarter. Places like Russia, etc. continue to perform well. There are some parts of the European economy, as you are aware, which are still undergoing some correction like Greece, where clearly you cannot expect us to be performing so well.

So there are pockets of strong performance in the rest of the world. They are pretty much in line with our expectations in terms of trends we are seeing, which are dependent on broadband penetration depending on the e-commerce activity and depending on the small business' adoption of the Internet. And as that -- as those curves continue to go up, we continue to see corresponding (inaudible) performance of those markets, and we are planning our growth strategy in those markets along those lines.

PATRICK PICHETTE: I think the key word refinancing for Greece should be pretty popular.

NIKESH ARORA: Unfortunately I don't think there are 30 million viewers on the Internet for them to get, Patrick, but we would love that advertising business. See now, you have made me forget your other question.

ROSS SANDLER: Yes, cleanup of the paid click --

NIKESH ARORA: Yes, we did do a slightly outside of normal cleanup for the last quarter. But I think our activity -- we are constantly making sure that we are taking care of spend, we are taking care of advertising situations where we don't believe that's the appropriate business. We do that on a regular basis. We have done nothing extraordinary in this quarter. Last quarter we did look at our policies in certain areas and clean it up, which is why we mentioned it in the last call.

OPERATOR: Mary Meeker, Morgan Stanley.

MARY MEEKER, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: So just one clarification and then the question. On the cost per click decline, 4% sequentially. By our math, if you exclude Forex, the decline was probably closer to 2.5%. And I just want to try to rank order the drivers of the sequential decline. And our thinking is that Forex was the number one driver of the decline. The second was the geographic mix, which is an ongoing issue with the second driver. The third was related to the tools that Susan spoke about to find more long tail keywords, which over time should drive CPCs higher or certainly assist CPCs. The fourth was the slower economic recovery in Europe versus the US and your comment about Greece related to that. And the fifth was another Susan comment, the product innovations roll out in the US first, which over time if they roll out in the non-US markets should help CPCs outside the US.

One you did not really mention was mobile, which is probably a factor as well. Is that the right laundry list of drivers of a sequential CPC decline and the right list in the right order in your view, Patrick?

PATRICK PICHETTE: Mary, I think that you have in essence the right laundry list. And I can tell you that the FX anybody because that's public information on FX. You can -- it is a big contributor to that 4%.

For the other last elements of the equation is always the mix between Google properties versus the partner properties, which also has and especially in the case of international, the UK. So you have all the elements of what you talked about. Plus, you have to look at your mix between the dot-com properties versus the partner properties.

Now we don't give you the breakdown of all the elements as you know. But you have the right basket if you include the last one I just gave you.

MARY MEEKER: Okay. And then the question and I'm going to give you a fun name is you have been telling us about lumpiness in CapEx for a really long time. CapEx has been actually very constrained, and the phrase is going to be lumpy but disciplined. You have been talking about investments in people for the last couple of quarters. You increased your headcount about 4% sequentially, but your operating spending per employee was flat sequentially. And the question we had is, as you grow as you should, do think you can continue to keep OpEx per employee flat sequentially? So we will call it lumpy but disciplined.

PATRICK PICHETTE: I mean that is the intent. The intent is you are on board, Googlers are ready to take real estate, they take computers, they take computing power. But it's not for the models that we have right now on the basis where we are. It is really about software development and sales. So that is the intent absolutely.

And then on the CapEx side, I could argue it could grow 8% quarter over quarter right. But you are absolutely right. We are very disciplined about it, and we're very proud of, in fact, getting so much yield out of our infrastructure. But there's always -- remember, I tell this because, well, it will happen just like we had talked about a few quarters ago that we are ramping up on hiring. In the same way when there is a great opportunistic purchase on assets, we will be there.

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Jeetil Patel, Deutsche.

JEETIL PATEL, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE: A couple of questions. Just coming off the bottom obviously from an ad market standpoint, can you talk about are you seeing from your marketers at least in the US and customers a different allocation of ad dollars between surge and display ads and other initiatives such as product listings and the like as you come up from Q4 to Q1 and beyond?

The second question is we continue to believe in you guys investing in the business. I'm just curious with the incremental 800 ads, I guess is there one or two sets of projects that you are allocating incremental investment against whether it be mobile or YouTube or what have you, just to give us a flavor of where you're headed from a product innovation and traffic growth standpoint? And then I have a quick follow-up.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Jeff can talk about all the areas where we are deploying the engineering, and then obviously Nikesh answered the first question. So, Jeff, do you want to give a sense of where we are plowing resources?

JEFF HUBER: Sure. The combination of the core businesses is strong and growing. So we are continuing to invest in that. Susan went through in her section a lot of the innovations and new products that we have introduced in the core search and display ads business. Some of the other major areas of engineering investment are some of the things that I cited. The open platforms, Android and Chrome, are growing very quickly and having a big impact. We are also investing incrementally in the apps and Enterprise where we are seeing a lot of strong growth and a lot of customer uptake there.

NIKESH ARORA: Let me answer the headcount questions, so I can go back and talk about the marketeers and the advertisers.

As Jeff mentioned, on the business side, we are continuing to add resources selectively in search as we see the market continuing to grow, as well as deploying it in markets where we see higher growth as I mentioned earlier.

In addition to that, we are putting a significant amount of resources in our display space as the product team continues to enhance our display offering and give us more features. That will continue to be a focus for us throughout the year going forward.

In terms of what we are seeing from marketeers, I think the pullback we have seen about six to nine months ago is all gone. What it also happened in (inaudible) is I continue to see tremendous amounts of capability building on the advertiser side.

One of the challenges we always have, you can go to an advertiser, pitch them a tremendous search campaign. However, they feel like we can lead the horse to the water, but they still have trouble making him drink because their websites are not fully capable of conducting the e-commerce transactions at the level they would like.

Having said that, I have seen tremendous amounts of capability improvement in the last six to nine months across the majority of our mature markets, both in the US, the UK, Germany, France, etc., which allows us to go ahead with bigger, more larger campaigns for these guys, and they are beginning to understand that search is diminishing inventory. If you don't buy today, it is not going to be there tomorrow. So they have to be more willing to be flexible with their budgets and be open depending on what is going on.

And they are very -- they are getting more and more averse to the ways of search. So clearly we are seeing them get more flexible with their dollars in the search side. They are beginning to understand the value of products like Susan mentioned like re-marketing and how to use the display networks effectively in sort of a CPC model and a CPM model depending on which one they choose. So clearly, in the more mature markets, we are seeing awareness of the digital market space. We are seeing them keep the search budgets open, and we are seeing tremendous amounts of engagement from their side.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Just in closing on that point, I think that the display market is seeing such an evolution because of simplicity of the tools that did not exist a year ago are now here, and people now have the choice of participating and participating actively, and these campaigns now love to have the flexibility to move from one to another to find the right audience. So a tremendous progress we have seen in display, and we are very encouraged by what we see.

JEETIL PATEL: I guess a question to Nikesh's commentary, I guess if companies are having a hard time getting the transaction in the door once they get the traffic and small business has that same issue, would you ever look at a model such as a percentage of sale model to go to eliminate that issue and have the transaction occur on site?

NIKESH ARORA: Well, I think I don't actually interpret what I said carefully. As we said, most of the small businesses are very, very good with allocation. As you have seen us a few quarters ago, we see a different large advertisers than small advertisers because they have always been ROI-driven. They totally understand how to bring in a search lead and how to convert that search lead into dollars.

I think the challenge of the large advertiser has been that as a proportion to their total advertising revenue they have not been able to allocate a lot of dollars to research. Hence, now as they have built up their capability, they are able to do that more effectively.

SUSAN WOJCICKI: This is Susan. One additional thing I would like to add is we definitely see an opportunity to move to taking a percentage of the conversion. In fact, we call this CPA, cost per acquisition, and one of the products that we have developed in this area that we are optimistic about is the product ad product. And the way that works is the retailer just gives us all of the information about their products, the price, the listing, description, etc., and then Google actually does the targeting to decide where to show those ads, and then we take a percentage when the product is actually purchased when the user actually converts. And we do see that as an opportunity to really simplify the process for advertisers over time, and it is something we are investing in.

OPERATOR: Jason Helfstein, Oppenheimer.

JASON HELFSTEIN, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER: Let me ask just a bit about expenses. So did Nexus One have a material impact on sales and marketing expenses in the quarter?

And then number two, when we look at seasonal patterns of expenses last year, they increased as a percent of revenue in the second quarter. Should we expect a similar pattern this year, or is each year different based on your initiatives?

PATRICK PICHETTE: Just to make it simple, on the Nexus One, we did not have a material advertising for it. And on the second one, I would not provide any guidance for the coming quarters. So I would leave it at that.

OPERATOR: Youssef Squali, Jefferies.

YOUSSEF SQUALI, ANALYST, JEFFERIES: Two quick ones, one for Patrick, one for Susan, starting with you Patrick. I just want to go back to the China issue and understand a little bit better what you said. So is serving China from Hong Kong a sustainable strategy for you guys? Doesn't that put you at a strong disadvantage versus a native player over time?

And then to Susan, among the many products that you cited, product search, Sitelinks, image ads, etc., help us understand which one or which one or two are having the most impacts on conversion rates and CPCs?

PATRICK PICHETTE: So on the case of China, obviously we still have sales in China. And the fact that we've served in Hong Kong and from Hong Kong does not stop us from having all the opportunities that we want from the Chinese markets. And remember that there is a huge industrial infrastructure all around Hong Kong and south of China. So it is really addressing the market from a different perspective, and our sales force is ready to serve them from there.

YOUSSEF SQUALI: Mostly for exporters?

PATRICK PICHETTE: It is both actually because we really have both opportunities. What we have really done, if you think about it, is we've stopped censoring. But the access to Google is still available for all Chinese people through (inaudible). I will leave it to Susan to answer the second question.

SUSAN WOJCICKI: So from an impact standpoint, some of the biggest changes that we made that impact the product and all the metrics, not just CPC but percentage of click growth, etc., a lot of them have to do with changes in ad quality that we make in the quarter. And the reason is because if we can make a percentage increase off of that very large business, that can have a significant impact. And so we had a what we will say a modest quarter from ad quality. We had more than a dozen different launches that were significant across the board, and they certainly over time do play an important role in how they affect the metrics.

The other thing I would like to point out that I think also is really an important thing to look at with our overall business is something we have introduced in AdWords called Opportunity Center. An Opportunity Center is a way for advertisers to know this is how many more clicks I should be getting or could be beginning. And so what we want to do is we want to give a lot more guidance to advertisers in terms of here are more keywords. They are very easy to add to your keyword list. We just launched this quarter, for example, bid suggestions to give them an understanding of what are the trade-offs between volume and CPCs and where is the optimal place that they should be bidding as well as budget suggestions. And because this is a -- because opportunities are applied to the core business and to all of our advertisers, it can move the metrics over time in terms of getting more advertisers to buy keywords or increase their budgets or change their bids.

OPERATOR: Mark May, Needham & Co.

MARK MAY, ANALYST, NEEDHAM & CO.: I had two. I wondered if you could give some color around the paid click and cost per click growth as it relates to O&O and the network? Did paid clicks grow faster on the O&O network or on the AdSense network and the same for CPCs?

And then the second quarter is, there are a lot of innovative companies in the display space. Earlier you mentioned re-marketing, but generally speaking there are others out there doing remarketing. So my question is, what are the top couple of things that Google is doing that is different in the area of display particularly from a targeting standpoint that is meaningfully differentiated?

PATRICK PICHETTE: Alright. So, on the first one, I will punt because we do not divulge the split between O&O and other properties. But I'm sure Susan will talk about the display innovations.

SUSAN WOJCICKI: Sure. So you had questions about remarketing and what we are doing there that is unique. Yes, we definitely agree with you that display is a really vibrant space, and there is a lot of innovation that is happening right now in the display market. And I think ultimately that innovation will enable the market as a whole to grow.

But one of the things that we have that is very unique from the remarketing perspective is users or advertisers can re-find users across the content network. And the content network because we have so many publishers at our side and because we are a global network as well, it gives advertisers the opportunity to expand and find a lot more of those users across the network than they probably can with a lot of other options.

The other thing that we're doing from a targeting perspective is we're trying to make it really easy for advertisers to work with existing interfaces. So right now you can do remarketing within AdWords. So if you are an AdWords advertiser, you can do the remarketing there. If you are a DSA advertiser, then you can also do it from that perspective as well.

The other thing that is important is from a -- because you also asked about different types of targeting. We offer a number of different targetings that we think are unique. And the one of them that we are best known for is the contextual targeting. So the ability to actually figure out on a page what this page is about dynamically and then serve an ad that is matched to that one specifically.

Then we also have placement targeting where we give advertisers the ability to choose where they want their ads to appear by actually selecting these are the sites, and this is where I want them to appear. So the combination of all these things together give advertisers a large number of options, and we're thinking about how these things actually work together. So how do all of these different targeting mechanisms, how do you combine them in a way to provide the best options for the advertisers and users.

MARK MAY: And when you said content network, you do include YouTube in there?

SUSAN WOJCICKI: Yes, we do include it within there.

OPERATOR: Jordan Rohan, Thomas Weisel.

JORDAN ROHAN, ANALYST, THOMAS WEISEL: Actually I have a drill down question on Sitelinks and image ads. The question I have is, really how do I think about the pervasive of these new ad formats? Over what percentage of queries or what percentage of advertisers do you think it is relevant? It seems like it would be a relatively narrow set of very commercial queries for very response-driven advertisers. How far penetrated are we, and how new is this?

SUSAN WOJCICKI: You are right that Sitelinks is new, and we are really just beginning to penetrate all the advertisers that I think will benefit from the Sitelinks feature. We do see Sitelinks appearing mostly on navigational queries where the user is looking for the brand name or the product category. But it is a very powerful tool, and we believe there's still a lot of advertisers that are not using it today that would benefit from it.

The other thing I will say about Sitelinks is it is rolled out globally. And so when you look at the combination of all the different companies and advertisers globally that could benefit from this, we are just getting started because we have just started rolling those out in Q4.

OPERATOR: Marianne Wolk, Susquehanna.

MARIANNE WOLK, ANALYST, SUSQUEHANNA: I have two quick questions. The first is, with regard to your mobile advertising, it sounds like it is an opt out program now from those AdWords users. Is that true and would you also include in-app aps as an opt out global choice as well?

And then also, is it fair to say, based on the comment you made about the content network, that the mix shifted from the content partners to the content partners from the search partners made several points this quarter. And did the content network also grow much faster in the UK this period than in the US? I know you rolled out video and display ads on the content network. Can you talk about the uptake there and any positive impact that has had on pricing?

PATRICK PICHETTE: Sorry, the first one -- could you just repeat your questions, so I will just write them down.

MARIANNE WOLK: Sure. On the mobile advertising side, it sounds like you're saying it is an opt out platform.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Yes, the opt out issue. The second one was about the UK versus other geographies for take-up rates for different formats?

MARIANNE WOLK: No, for the content network. For the content network and whether you're getting any pricing benefit there from the introduction of display and video ads recently.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Okay. Susan, do you want to take this?

SUSAN WOJCICKI: Yes, I will take both of them. So, on the mobile component, I will say that we do give advertisers the option to -- the default is for advertisers to be on search content and mobile. And the reason we do that is because we want to make it as easy as possible for advertisers to get as much reach and reach as many potential users as possible, and we try to do the right thing for those advertisers. So the default is for them to be opted into both.

However, we do offer the ability for advertisers to run a mobile only campaign. And under that mobile only campaign, we give them the option to target, for example, a specific mobile OS, and we give a lot of options within the mobile category. But I would really think about that more for advertisers who have the capabilities and are advanced enough to know that this -- these are the capabilities that they want to do and customize their campaign in order to make it worthwhile for them.

On the formats question, I will also say we definitely have been introducing new formats into the display network, and we have been very exciting about that. In fact, we have a product called Display Ad Builder, and Display Ad Builder is a way -- it is a template system that enables us to have lots of different ad formats and to add them very, very easily to our network. And from an advertiser standpoint, they are very, very easy, too, to actually start and get running. It is really just a click, click, click and your ad can be running. Your display ad can be running.

So because the content network and the way that we choose which ad is actually run is an auction, if the display is winning, then it is winning because it is actually a higher CPM ad. And so by bringing display ads to the mix with text, there is more competition and there is more variety. So when it makes sense for a display ad to run, then it is when is the option, and then because it won the auction, then it is bidding more than the existing text ad. And so over time that can bring positive competition to the auction.

OPERATOR: Aaron Kessler, Kaufman Brothers.

AARON KESSLER, ANALYST, KAUFMAN BROTHERS: Yes, a couple of questions. First, can you give us a little more details on the travel and retail verticals? I know you said all the verticals are strong. Any more color there? And just updates on your hedging program would be helpful, just your thoughts going forward with the hedges?

PATRICK PICHETTE: Maybe I can start with the hedges and then turn it to Nikesh. Look, our hedging program is really effective. I just want to remind everybody for us it is an insurance policy. It is an insurance policy for high volatility and specifically if the US dollar strengthens dramatically.

And so if you look at where the euro was a year ago versus where it was 90 days ago versus where it is now, I mean -- and then you go back to last year as we discussed, we had booked at this time last year big hedging revenues that. But it was mostly because we had such a massive appreciation of US dollars. So for us very effective in finding the right sweet spot to make sure that we have the right coverage.

On what we are caught with is the accounting rules, which some quarters like last quarter, right, had very little FAS 133 ruling pushing through the P&L, and this quarter has a disproportionate amount. They do not represent our regular cost of hedging. So it creates a bit of a kind of a fluctuation for you to model, but in the end we are very happy with what we are getting out of it.

In terms of the ,verticals I will turn it to Nikesh.

NIKESH ARORA: As you mentioned, travel and retail have been strong. I also alluded to the capability building, which free e-commerce, which is primarily a stalking by the retail vertical where we are seeing good strength.

Travel is growing strong and is steady. Retail and travel end up being our larger verticals in the entire landscape. Having said that, I'm seeing good strength as well from CPG and entertainment because that's where a lot of the display advertisers like to focus those verticals into those smaller numbers. Those verticals are not traditionally strong search verticals, but they definitely play in the display space a lot of the display efforts have been targeted in those verticals.

OPERATOR: Colin Gillis, BGC.

COLIN GILLIS, ANALYST, BGC: Patrick, was there any tension between Sergey and Eric over China, and could that be tied at all to why Eric is not on the call today?

PATRICK PICHETTE: No. I am sorry. I should not -- (multiple speakers) thank you for the question. I have a feeling that I have heard rumors -- I have heard every rumor. So thank you for asking the question so candidly. The answer is no. There is nothing going on at all. I mean it was really -- as we were doing the planning at the end of last year, through all the questions, every -- if you doubt that we actually scrub every department at Google, I will scrub two. And the question that was asked is, what can you do differently to be better next year? And one of the things on the list that we brought up in finance is, hey, maybe we should look at the quarterly call and the whole process and the webcast that we launched, and one of them was, hey, you know, we thought that this was an innovation. It has nothing to do with anything. (multiple speakers)

COLIN GILLIS: I have got a quick follow-up. The newer ad format, did that provide any lift at all to the CPCs?

PATRICK PICHETTE: The newer ad format?

COLIN GILLIS: The click to play video and things along those lines.

NIKESH ARORA: You know, I think it is important to understand some of the newer ad formats that almost sold on a CPC basis and our newer ad formats are sold like traditionally in the display space. We sell them as launch pages or homepages, so they are not paid on a click by click basis.

OPERATOR: Scott Devitt, Morgan Stanley.

SCOTT DEVITT, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Two questions, please. The first one just a follow-up on Mary's laundry list question. The comment about site revenue and network revenue mix, the site revenue and network revenue were both flat sequentially. So I was wondering if you were suggesting that CPCs in the network are actually declining, if that was a contributor to the sequential decline in CPC?

And then secondly, you recently indicated 50 million Chrome users, and I think Android smartphone shipments have been roughly 6 million per quarter run rates. So your thoughts on shipping a tablet to take advantage of this momentum, thanks.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Let me answer in two ways. We are really delighted by the Chrome take-up rate. I mean it is a fast browser. It is a secure browser. It has all the elements that we have told about it. So this is a terrific opportunity.

In terms of tablets, the one announcement that we made last year you will remember with the launch of Chrome OS is we are working with manufacturers to have a netbook out sometime in the fall, and we are continuing to work diligently on this. We are very excited about it, and we think that there's going to be a ton of innovation coming out of that. So there is no doubt that we are pushing for it for all the reasons that you are mentioning.

Can you remind me of your first question?

SCOTT DEVITT: Sure. The addition to the list earlier in terms of drivers of changes in CPC was the mix shift between site and network. And, as we go back and look at the sequential growth rate of Google site revenue and Google network revenue, they are both basically flat. So I was wondering if there was any implication from that CPC and one of those two actually changed more than the other?

PATRICK PICHETTE: You know what? I don't have the answer to that. But what I will do is just we will follow up with you. Maria?

MARIA SHIM: I think we are done taking questions, so I'm going to turn it over to Patrick for some closing thoughts.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Great. I just want to thank everybody for joining us today. I want to thank every Googler as well who listens to the call. I mean we have Googlers all over the world working so diligently at creating these incredible products and all the opportunities we have.

Thanks for your time, and we look forward to talking to you at the end of Q2. I will let the lady close the call currently, I'm sorry.

OPERATOR: This concludes today's conference. We thank you for your participation.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
goog : Google Inc.
   IN
ividad : Video Advertising | ismart : Smart Phones | i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i3441 : Telecommunications Equipment | i34411 : Mobile Communications Equipment | i3454 : Electronic Consumer Goods | i7902 : Telecommunications | i838 : Advertising | i8385 : Electronic Advertising | iadv : Advertising/Public Relations/Marketing | icellph : Cellular/Mobile Phones | icnp : Consumer Products | idirma : Direct Marketing | idurhg : Durable Household Products | ielec : Electronics | ihome : Home Electronics/Appliances | imark : Marketing | i8395464 : Internet Search Engines | iint : Internet/Online Services
   NS
ccrm : Customer Relationship Management | c32 : Advertising | c11 : Plans/Strategy | c15 : Performance | c151 : Earnings | c22 : New Products/Services | ntra : Transcript | c31 : Marketing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | cknowm : Knowledge Management | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | hkong : Hong Kong | uk : United Kingdom | asiaz : Asia | china : China | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020100429e64f001xi
  


 HD
 Q4  2009 Google Q&A Session - Final
   WC
9,625 words
   PD
21 January 2010
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©010 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
OPERATOR: Good day, and welcome everyone to the Google Inc conference call. This call is being recorded. At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Ms. Maria Shim, Senior Manager of Investor Relations. Please go ahead, ma'am.

   TD
MARIA SHIM, SENIOR MANAGER, IR, GOOGLE: Good afternoon everyone and welcome to Google's fourth quarter and fiscal year 2009 conference call. With us are Patrick Pichette, Chief Financial Officer, Jonathan Rosenberg, Senior Vice President of Product Management and Nikesh Arora will be joining us for the first half hour so if you have specific sales geographic vertical questions for him please address them to him in the first half hour of our call. After we cover a few housekeeping items, we will begin taking your questions. This call is being Webcast from our investor relations website located at Investor.Google.com. Please refer to our website for important information including our earnings press release and related slide deck. A replay of this call will also be available in our website in a few hours. Please note we routinely post important information on our Investor Relations website located at Investor.Google.com and we encourage you to make use of that resource.

As a reminder the purpose of this follow-up call is to give participants the opportunity to ask more detailed financial and product questions in an efficient and Reg FD compliant manner. Let me now cover the Safe Harbor. Some of the statements we make today may be considered forward-looking and these statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially. Please note that these forward-looking statements reflect our opinions only as of the date of this presentation and we undertake no obligation to revise or publicly release the results of any revision to forward-looking statements in light of new information or future events . Please refer to our SEC filings including our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year-ended December 31, 2008, as well as our earnings press release for a more detailed description of the risk factors that may affect our results. Copies can be obtained from the SEC or by visiting this Investor Relations section of our website.

Also, please note that certain financial measures we use on this call such as operating profit and operating margin are expressed in a non-GAAP basis, and adjusted to exclude charges relating to stock based compensation. We've also adjusted our net cash provided by operating activities to remove capital expenditures which is we refer to as free cash flow. Our GAAP results and GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliation can be found in our earnings press release. With that we're ready to take your questions. Operator?

OPERATOR: Thank you. (Operator Instructions). We'll take our first question from [Sumit Sunna] from JMP Securities.

SUMIT SUNNA, ANALYST, JMP SECURITIES: Yes, thank you very much. Just wanted to get more details about CPC growth sequentially. Are there any specific instances, I know in the past quarter, about how emerging markets where credit growth has been strong but CPCs are lower, can you help us quantify that impact and secondly, on the CPC question itself, anything specifically in Europe, we had heard instances where trademark bidding has kind of slowed down, and the efficacy of that has slowed down and you pull-down CPC with it, can you comment?

JONATHAN ROSENBERG, SVP, PRODUCT MANAGEMENT, GOOGLE: Yes, sure, this is Jonathan. I'll let Nikesh comment on any specific issues related to Europe or any dynamics that he's seeing there on the trademark issues . The specific issues which we've traditionally talked about a lot on you're looking at average CPC which is obviously a blended number, and is impacted by some of the things that you suggested, such as the relative growth in maturing markets versus established markets had some anomalous dynamics when you look at this quarter which I would highlight which are first and foremost to the FX movement. We had, the dollar was weaker in Q4 2009 when you compare to Q4 2008 so that causes the non-US clicks to have higher CPCs when reported in dollar terms, but I think the other thing that you may not see is there is an important mix effect going on. We made some quality improvements on the AFC network, and basically, that had the effect of reducing the total clicks in the AFC network, relative to what it would have otherwise been, and so we had a higher proportion of clicks therefore coming from Google.com and from AFS and that's a mix shift that caused the blended average of CPC the way you're seeing it to otherwise rise and so those are the two things that I think are more different than this quarter than in the past and I think that and otherwise I don't have anymore insight.

MARIA SHIM: Okay, next question please?

OPERATOR: We'll take our next question from Aaron Kessler from Kaufman.

AARON KESSLER, ANALYST, KAUFMAN BROTHERS: Just a question on the local side and mobile, how that ties in. There's a lot of assumption on the mobile side that that's really dependent on local growth longer term. Just your view on that and maybe how you see the growth in the local side develop to drive mobile longer term.

PATRICK PICHETTE, CFO, GOOGLE: It's Patrick speaking. I think that mobile, one element of mobile is local, but I would far and away not only pin it to local. There's no doubt that we are having some great experiments on local, but on mobile, what you have is a whole set of searches and a whole set of activities that actually just transcends clearly just the local business, and those searches obviously are going to also fuel it, so it's a mosaic of opportunities but local is just one of them, but Jonathan maybe you have additional comments?

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: Yes, I think local is hugely important. It's going to be much more important in the not too distant future, because as we're seeing more integration, as I mentioned in some of my other remarks, people who are shopping offline start online and today, people still don't have access to the inventory information in the local stores, so I mentioned that in mobile, we're seeing that when phone numbers and coupons are offered, people are much more likely to click on the mobile ad. Well imagine if the inventory information is there, so that they can actually consummate a transaction locally, as that information becomes available, local is going to be much much more powerful, and we already have some examples where advertisers like with AT&T are using some of our local products to help people find local stores, so I think we're just starting to get there in terms of the capabilities that are going to be necessary for local to take off, but I think that local is going to matter much more on these devices because obviously they know where they are with GPS.

AARON KESSLER: And also quickly I think you filtered out some of your advertisers this quarter, maybe AdSense for content, maybe you can provide more details around that.

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: Sorry, can you restate the question?

AARON KESSLER: I think there's reports you filtered out some of your advertisers this quarter on the AdSense side, so can you provide any more details about that?

NIKESH ARORA, PRESIDENT, GLOBAL SALES OPERATIONS, GOOGLE: Yes, we have been obviously constantly looking at advertisers to see whether there is any fraud or any spam that is happening and we permanently suspend advertisers who repeatedly attempt to scam users, so we went through one of our regular processes of looking at advertisers, and seeing which one of those we thought were not adding quality or adding sort of value to our users, and in those cases, we chose to suspend them permanently.

PATRICK PICHETTE: This quarter was the approach that we took to suspend the repeated scam users as opposed to before, where all we were doing was disabling certain bad ads.

AARON KESSLER: Okay, and did this have any material impact on the quarter numbers? It sounds like it could have had a slight impact from what I was reading.

PATRICK PICHETTE: No. The impact is slight. It's a relatively small number of advertisers.

AARON KESSLER: Okay, great. Thank you.

MARIA SHIM: Can we have our next question please?

OPERATOR: We'll take our next question from Ross Sandler from RBC Capital markets.

ROSS SANDLER, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Hi guys, two questions. First, on the cyclical nature of paid click growth, and then a follow-up from James' question earlier. So on paid clicks, the growth rate has been decelerating pretty steadily for the last couple quarters based on some of the mix and kind of natural deceleration you guys talk about. Do you see any evidence in your data that as the economy recovers in 2010 that paid clicks could actually reaccelerate and for instance in the fourth quarter you had a reacceleration in the domestic market, did paid clicks accelerate there and what are your thoughts on that and the follow-up from James question, on the international stuff, so if we've done the math correctly, international growth ex-currency and ex-hedging decelerated to around 16% from 19% last quarter. Can you talk about what's driving that deceleration, because I think it had accelerated in Q3, thanks.

PATRICK PICHETTE: So on the paid clicks, I think that the only thing we would tell you because we can't give you anything perspective is obviously as every place there's a recovery and there's robust auctions and also seasonality with these auctions, right? You could have kind of increased CPCs and so that's really the only fundamental driver of the CPC and CPC growth.

ROSS SANDLER: You don't see consumers clicking on ads, not the CPCs, but actually the volume of paid clicks? You don't see that incidence increasing when the economy gets better?

PATRICK PICHETTE: Yes, absolutely. People search more and they search more and not only do they search more but they click more, there's no doubt about it, so you'll remember if you go back to a couple quarters ago, we had this conversation where we said because people were more shy at shopping, they click less, and so it was a consumer driven phenomenon that drove our CPC at the time, and it was just simply that no matter how the auction operated, the fact that people click less and as people, as the economy recovers and people click more obviously it will have an effect on CPC. As for the international, Nikesh, do you want to cover the international portion?

NIKESH ARORA: I think the important thing to note is if you look at last year Q4, we have a precipitous decline in the US, much more sort of sharper than what we saw in the international market so the comps for the US looks much better than they look for in national regions and in addition many of our new product areas which we stage globally start in the US and make their way across the globe, we have had sort of more of them do well in the US than they have done internationally, so purely from that perspective, the US is going to look slightly stronger from the rest of our international markets.

ROSS SANDLER: Great, thank you.

MARIA SHIM: Next question, please?

OPERATOR: We'll take our next question from George Askew from Stifel Nicolaus.

GEORGE ASKEW, ANALYST, STIFEL NICOLAUS: Yes, thank you very much. Two questions. First, has Google since the first of the year finished implementing the caffeine search architecture across all of your data centers?

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: I don't know if we finished implementing it, but--

PATRICK PICHETTE: I believe the answer to that is no.

GEORGE ASKEW: Not yet. Not yet. Okay, and then--

PATRICK PICHETTE: I said yes, in answer to your question, not yet. The answer is not yet.

GEORGE ASKEW: Okay, not yet, all right and then obviously, display advertising is a huge push for the Company. Can you help us please understand how much of your display advertising revenue is from owned and operated properties such as YouTube and how much is powered by tools of Google but does not appear on your website like a DoubleClick?

NIKESH ARORA: Well, we don't give the mix but clearly, it's all of the elements that are at work. The best way to think of our business on the display side is we have our business on the display side, which corresponds to the premium end, which is where people brand markets are looking for premium advertising slots look at YouTube as a property they want to advertise with in competition to other premium inventory that's out there. If you go to the next level, the best way to think about it is in our network which is our collection of publishers which are all the way from small publishers to certain large publishers will give us access to the inventory which we are then able to collectively sell as a network both using contextual advertising as well as using interest based advertising, and that of course has a different profile as it relates to the margins and the revenues as compared to YouTube, and then the third part is where we use both our tools as well as our exchange properties like AdExchange and DoubleClick platforms, which is where we can have different buyers and sellers and different people who put the inventory up there and different people selling the inventory, and that's beginning to get traction now and most of our top ad networks are in that space but clearly again that is a very different pricing profile or margin profile so that's the way to think about our three different businesses. Now from a structural perspective, but clearly from an advertiser perspective when we make that pitch we offer the entire gamut of services depending on what campaign objectives they have and what they are trying to achieve.

GEORGE ASKEW: Would Google have another owned and operated display ad site?

NIKESH ARORA: Well, we are constantly experimenting with various properties that we have to see what's the best mechanism and the worst-best format of advertising to use on those.

GEORGE ASKEW: Okay, thank you.

MARIA SHIM: We'll take the next question please?

OPERATOR: We'll take our next question from Scott Davis from JPMorgan.

SCOTT DAVIS, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Yes, hi, thank you. Nikesh, I just have a follow-up to Ross' and James' question about the rest of the world growth. So given that it decelerated and I understand the products in the US haven't been rolled out there, that would explain why it wouldn't reaccelerate but it doesn't explain the deceleration so it sounds like you're saying the primary answer is just the comps, which did in fact get a lot more difficult versus the fourth quarter of last year. I was wondering though if there's a third element, which is there were a number of times on the call that it was mentioned that large advertisers have come back first, and I guess I was wondering if you could give some color on whether or not the rest of the world make up of advertisers is more small advertisers as compared to large, and therefore, that lagged a little for that reason as well, or was it just purely the comps for the first reason I said?

NIKESH ARORA: Thank you very much, for asking the clarifying question. I think there are three elements to what you ask. One clearly is a comp element because as Patrick would say, we've had a V-shaped recovery, and in certain markets we've had a slightly elongated V in some markets and some of the markets are bobbing around so clearly in the US, we've seen a sharper rebound than elsewhere because they had not as sharp a decline so clearly one of the comp issue. The second issue has also to do with the advertiser mix.

Actually, the large advertiser phenomenon is overweighted to the US than it is towards emerging parts of the world, so in various parts of Southern Europe, and emerging parts of Asia, Latin America, and the Middle East and Europe, and the other parts of Europe, we are clearly not seeing as much divergence between large advertisers and small advertisers in those markets, so they are not, they haven't been as aggressive back and they haven't aggressively left in the first instance and the third case is clearly in some of those markets which are nascent, what has happened is as the economy took a hit earlier, they actually reprioritized their spending and some of them may have pulled back and it just takes a little bit longer to get it back to online advertising because in those markets they aren't as reliant or as convinced of online advertising but clearly as I said in places like Brazil we are making huge efforts to get the education up on advertising around the globe.

SCOTT DAVIS: Do you have an expectation to follow-up on, because you're clearly pleased with sales and it's easy for the Street, including myself to get ahead of ourselves because we can do channel checks and hear about the US and hear about the UK, and those things accelerated nicely so it seems like the only thing that is missing is just conviction on when you'll see reacceleration in the rest of the world. Part of it will come just because comps will get a lot easier but do you have a suggestion for what kind of lag you think is involved for the rest of the world?

NIKESH ARORA: Clearly I'm not going to try and speculate on numbers and try and figure out when these things happen, but for the long term perspective if you think about the US versus these markets, clearly some of these markets are further behind in terms of the development where the US is or certain parts of Europe are, like for example, UK is very advanced, and even if you look at the evolution of some of these markets for the last three, four years, we have seen a trend, and the trend suggests over time people will start getting more convinced about online advertising as more and more consumers get online as more and more broadband penetrates those markets and those dynamics are clearly easy for you guys to understand and try and project and based on that, my long term conviction is that we are going to see the continued shift towards online advertising both on the search side as well as display side and as Patrick alluded to in the earlier call the television market is another huge market where the eyeballs are beginning to shift and advertisers will want to target those audiences and we feel comfortable that tools were developing based on our experience in the US markets can be deployed around the world so in the long term I believe there's clearly growth in each of those markets. I can't project which quarter they will show up in. Thank you.

PATRICK PICHETTE: I think just as a general comment on the overall total revenue and then these differ between all these markets and geographies, I mean as we said in the call, on the previous call, we are really pleased with the trajectory of the Company and the reason for it is you can see how a quick rebound in the economy in the US or at least not a strong rebound but a quick rebound actually you can see the leverage model of the Google model so in that sense I think we take a lot of comfort for the long term.

MARIA SHIM: Great. Could we take the next question please?

OPERATOR: We'll take our next question from Jim Friedland from Cowen & Co.

JIM FRIEDLAND, ANALYST, COWEN & CO: Thanks, first on G & A, if I look at Q4 versus Q3, there was, it actually moved up decently, last year it was flattish but then you're really working on the costs. Was there anything one-time in nature or unique about that increase, or was it seasonal or is this just getting back to what's sort of a more traditional pattern?

PATRICK PICHETTE: I think on G & A, the two big areas that we talked about, one of them was actually ramping up our marketing, as we had discussed on the previous call. We also had a few expenses more than would have been ordinar it on the legal side and so those would be kind of the two big bumps that if you think in the quarter and but nevertheless, I mean very much under our control, right? If you think about it, if there's one thing we've proven this year, that Google is our ability to actually really control our expenses, and dial where we think we're going to get a great pay back and a great return and that's exactly what you've seen in Q4 where when Eric talked about, let's pushback the investments and go back into making sure we run the business the way we want to run it and obviously when you have areas like marketing broadly defined, that's the first place you can actually turn on the dials to get a real impact back and that's why we move that way.

JIM FRIEDLAND: Okay, and then on marketing, we have with the Nexis One, we've seen some ads around the Google network, but we haven't seen any sort of more traditional advertising, given that it is sort of a meaningful product launch, and you are trying to change an industry, why haven't we seen a push in that area or are you just telling us that you're going to use sort of the traditional way that Google has gotten out there?

PATRICK PICHETTE: Yes, I think that Nikesh will probably have more details on this. Because we launched a product like it's really a new model we're trying to launch with this online store, we did not, all we wanted to do is, and we have so much advertising anyway, the marketing on the product around the product itself, we didn't deem necessary to actually push it in the same way that other more traditional channels would have done. Nikesh?

NIKESH ARORA: I think Patrick said it and we alluded to it in the earlier call. This is a new way for us of selling mobile phones, and clearly the first target group we can go after are the people who like Google, who are the Google aficionados people online, so since we are trying to come up with the model of selling something online, it's perfectly logical for us to do online marketing for that, and as this evolves and as we test this we would explore other ways going forward.

JIM FRIEDLAND: Okay, great, thank you.

MARIA SHIM: Can we take our next question please?

OPERATOR: We'll take our next question from Heath Terry from FBR Capital markets.

HEATH TERRY, ANALYST, FBR CAPITAL MARKETS: Great, thank you. Eric touched on this a little bit on the call but can you give us an idea of where you're seeing most traction in your display efforts and as you look at the DoubleClick ad networks what are its competitive advantages, and what does the development path look like there?

PATRICK PICHETTE: Look, in terms of display, I think Nikesh, in the way he portrayed it a few minutes ago, let me give the high level answer and Nikesh, if you have color commentary. There is the simplification of the process with DoubleClick and DoubleClick platforms for both the publishers and the advertisers has made it, so simplification of all that has made a huge difference and we can see it in the numbers of people signing up for it and then obviously on the performance and the markets, two other big thrusts that actually have good trajectory, so maybe Nikesh, you want to give a bit more on the display itself?

NIKESH ARORA: I think that's very important to understand, if you think about the evolution of the display market, right? In the early days of display we've been selling sites and as we look at it there's been a huge explosion in the number of sites, millions and millions of websites that you can decide to target ads and try and display ads, and now the challenge that it creates is on two ends. It creates a challenge of consistency where is where products like DoubleClick with some degree of consistency and how ads are served and put across-the-board and products like AdExchange begin to help, because effectively you're trying to create a consistent way of serving ads in the market.

The second part also the inefficiency in the selling side because it's very hard for an advertiser then to go aggregate multiple sites and try and buy them individually, so it really helps to have an exchange where you can aggregate tremendous amounts of inventory. If you do both of those things, we can layer on top of that both contextual and intraspace advertisements, so the best way to think about this is we're slowly shifting the display industry behavior to look and mimic what advertisers have been traditionally used to buying. They are used to buying audiences on an aggregated large scale and the way we are able to put together the Google network, the AdExchange, the DoubleClick platforms we are trying to replicate the ability to buy large audiences, and as that begins to happen, as they're able to target more and more you clearly expect that becomes more relevant for them and therefore the prices will react accordingly to that relevance to the advertisers.

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: Yes, this is just Jonathan, quickly. I would summarize the competitive advantages. We're making it easy to buy, sell, and serve display ads, and one of the things I think is particularly exciting, which Eric was asked about on the call earlier, was the shifting budget dynamic. One of the things I think has been very positive that we've seen is that with products like Display Ad Builder we're actually bringing a lot of new advertisers to display. They can much more easily create display ads and now they can do it directly from the ad words interface, and turns out there are new advertisers to display, and they're not fundamentally decreasing their budgets in search so we're winning on both sides.

MARIA SHIM: Thank you. Could we take the next question please?

OPERATOR: We'll take our next question from Richard Fetyko from Merriman & Company.

RICHARD FETYKO, ANALYST, MERRIMAN CURHAN FORD & CO: Thanks, guys. In the past, you've talked about changes in ad coverage or density of coverage. I was wondering if you could characterize the changes in the last couple quarters, if there's been any, and secondly on the mobile strategy, just wondering the success you've had with the adoption of the Android Operating System for the mobile devices, what role do you see that as playing in your mobile strategy? Does that lead to certain level, certain opportunity of modernization over time?

PATRICK PICHETTE: Let me answer the mobile first and I'll let Jonathan answer the first question on coverage. The whole mobile strategy is built on building and accelerating an ecosystem and obviously we have our own mobile teams have developed these cool apps so if you think of VIC for the people who know VIC and all, the really cool applications and all the rest, but it's about the ecosystem that does three things, right? It really promotes innovation, it has a lower cost of innovation, because by being open sourced, you kind of enable everybody to jump in and do it, and then as a consequence, you keep it open sourced so the benefit to us really is twofold.

The benefit is, users get better applications faster at market spreads faster everywhere, so think of the spread of high end devices faster at a lower cost sooner, which drives all these applications and so users get a benefit, and then as a consequence of that, as we talked before, consumers that have Android devices, we know from our own research, they use it like 30 times more than what a typical handset would be and in consequence they do a lot more search and a lot more advertising opportunities, so pushing that ecosystem is so critical, because that's where the world is going and if you think in terms of NPV as the image I always use, what's the value of accelerating that? Well it's huge and it's huge for the users, but it's also huge for us, and that's why we're pushing it in the three dimensions of Mobile, Android, and now what you've heard as the Nexis One handsets to set the standards at a higher level so that's the mind set in which we operate and we gain to benefit massively from it and so does the user. Now, for the ad coverage, Jonathan?

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: Sure. So as you know we really don't break down the components of the RPM equation specifically to coverage CPC or click through rates. We have told you in the past on a couple of occasions when there's been a situation where we noticed a dynamic that caused us to make a change, which we had mentioned a few quarters ago in the past. Right now, I think we're pretty happy with where coverage is. We mostly have been focused on improving the quality of the ads themselves, and we've talked to you a bit in the past about the tradeoffs that we make there in terms of how we decide to take improvements with respect to quality and coverage. I think the main change that you can probably see is the new formats that we've been launching, which we talked about which basically offer a better experience within our ads rather than new ads that we're not otherwise showing today, so I don't think there's not a lot to say in terms of fundamental changes in coverage.

RICHARD FETYKO: Thank you.

MARIA SHIM: Okay, next question, please?

OPERATOR: We'll take our next question from Mary Meeker from Morgan Stanley.

MARY MEEKER, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Scott and I have a couple questions, and first is for Nikesh, if you'll let us ask the other as well if not we'll queue back up. You guys on the call were obviously very enthusiastic about the growth and monetization opportunities in YouTube, mobile, DoubleClick and enterprise. That said, desktop is still the vast vast vast majority of your revenue. You guys are the ones getting the inbound phone calls about people getting more interested these categories and to Scott Davis' question, the stock market's not responding that well to your earnings announcement but at the same time you guys are really enthusiastic about 2010 per your tone and your commentary. Could you give us a sense of when these new initiatives start to add 100 basis points here and there or a couple hundred million in incremental revenue to the business and if not quantitatively just philosophically about when they start to move the needle because that would drive an acceleration in revenue for the Company.

PATRICK PICHETTE: It's Patrick. Let me start by saying the following: One is, we display as Eric said, right, is already a pretty significant business for us.

MARY MEEKER: Yes.

PATRICK PICHETTE: And in the sense that when he talks about the next $1 billion business and when you take all of the elements that Nikesh has talked about so if you think of YouTube and if you think of all of the elements that are within it, right? I mean, at some point in the future, this will add up to something that one, we're excited about and then two, that moves the needle, and you could argue in many areas within it, has already started moving the needle, and then on the other ones, there as you said, Mary, they're nowhere near where the core business is, but the trajectories and the growth rates that we see and the adoption rates and the adoption rate on users gives us, that's why we feel so comfortable about when we talk about 2010 and beyond, right?

Building this business for the long term, we see a lot of positive trajectory, and we have to celebrate that, because two years ago, we couldn't have said that about mobile, we couldn't have said that about enterprise but two years later where we stand at the end of 2009 we look at the great progress of Jonathan's comment of putting a few arrows in the right place and putting more wood around them. We're very pleased about the trajectory they have.

MARY MEEKER: Is there any stuff around it that you can provide us?

NIKESH ARORA: So Mary let me talk to this more. This is Nikesh. If you just think about our business in the various ways we just talked about, and I want to underline that search is not by sort of by any means exhausted. This is an area where we continue to make progress and we continue to see interest. I would say we're seeing more and more large advertisers coming in, and that's not just a function of the economy. It's also a function of them having developed their eCommerce capabilities, and worked really hard on having an online strategy so as they come fourth and build an online strategy across multiple verticals, we're beginning to see the resurgence and return of those guys into the online phase.

Having said that, in addition to pure from a direct marketing direct response perspective the next leg which we're beginning to see in Search is that people are beginning to see the off line impacts of people searching online, so even if you have a business where you aren't selling something on the web, it is very clear to most businesses whether they're in pharmaceuticals, consumer goods, autos, that most people, 70 to 80% of the people will research something online which is a significant value to them or significant importance whether it's a drug or a car before they go make that purchase, or before they will make a brand affiliation, so clearly that sort of research is being funded by us by various agencies out there, and that's continuing to drive that search cycle while it's driving that in some of our mature markets, clearly those facts have still to make their ways into emerging and maturing markets around the world, so I want to underline there's tremendous runway from where we stand.

As Patrick said about display, again clearly you're seeing shift from people buying sites to people buying audiences and people, they are making it more and month interest based, which is that's how traditional advertiser used to buy, they're buying frequency and advertisers and often not buying sites because sites over emphasizes brand affiliation as opposed to interest targeting and I think that trend is going to continue. If you think about sort of the YouTube space and the online video space, I think we have seen that sort of becoming a relevant part of the media mix as far as online advertising is concerned, but if you just think structurally in the industry, we're beginning to see the emergence of professional content on the web slowly, both from broadcasters or from sort of content creators, as well as people who provide online video, and as that trend continues as that sort of creates more and more inventory in the online web, we'll see more and more people get excited about advertising video to the audiences which I think is going to be another big leg for the whole industry not just for us.

And if you continue that story, Jonathan talked about mobile, Patrick talked about mobile, and again as we see the emergence of Smartphones and devices like the Nexis One continued success of devices on various handset manufacturers around the world we're again going to see the search traffics begin to move in that direction, so clearly, all those things are in the right direction and of course as Eric alluded to earlier on the enterprise side, we are seeing this big shift in cloud computing. We are beginning to see large customers and even parts of the government, the City of LA, start to make their road, make end roads into those customer segments, and clearly other people will watch those customers and gain strength from those, and start to converge, so across-the-board, I think I'm very positive about the potential and prospect of each of these business lines.

Again as Patrick said, and Jonathan said, we can't actually comment on when these things will materialize from a quarterly basis but again we remain convinced this is a good long term trend. Did that give you enough flavor?

MARY MEEKER: Thank you very much, Nikesh and Patrick.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thank you, we'll go to the next question. Sorry, Mary we'll go to the next question.

OPERATOR: I apologize. We'll take William Morrison from ThinkEquity.

WILLIAM MORRISON, ANALYST, THINKEQUITY: Hi. Just a couple quick modeling questions, Patrick.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Yes.

WILLIAM MORRISON: How should we be thinking about tax rate in 2010 and then on CapEx, before the recession, you guys were kind of consistently spending low teens, somewhere in the low teens as a percent of revenue and CapEx and that came way down last year. Curious, should we be expecting CapEx to ramp back up to 10% plus of revenue or any commentary around CapEx?

PATRICK PICHETTE: Okay, so William thanks for your question. Look, the usual suspects continue to be OI&E and CapEx and tax rate, and this quarter is no different than the prior quarters so just to give a bit of color, quickly on each. Tax rate has been quite stable through the year and so there's, I mean the big issue that we focus on the tax rate because it gets affected by mix, and a few other things but the real fundamental issue is legislation for us rather than this quarter or next quarter, so I think that there's nothing in our tax rate that we, that is affecting it more, if you think in the long term than any of these big legislations, and that's why we're focused on them, because it is really important for the US economy and for US companies that are participating internationally to get this right because there's so many jobs in the US associated with them, so that's on the tax side.

On CapEx, I mean, sometimes people say Patrick, you say this too often but it's true. I'm really pleased with our CapEx numbers. I think that we are ramping back up. We're ramping back up at a much lower level than what has been historically, but we are ramping back up, and every opportunity that we have to make sure that we need capacity or we need CapEx, we will fund everything fully. We've been really fortunate in 2009 that we've had a couple of good breaks in terms of capacity utilization, a bunch of chip sets that work really well in our favor in terms of performance as we discussed before and all this. We just brought it right to the bottom line that's fantastic to us, and our shareholders, and we're continuing to monitor that very closely so the level what you should take away is we're going to continue the level of discipline.

If you allow me to close on OI& E, again big variability quarter-over-quarter so everybody who has their crystal ball and both variability of FX as well as just variability in general between FX exchange rates, it drives so much of our FAS 133 that you see the big swing this quarter yet once again but in the other direction and it was also you will remember I said in the previous call that we had taken so much accelerated write-offs of our previous hedges portfolio that we had so much of it written off that at some point you get some benefit in the short-term so that's what happened and then also, people should note that we have started moving off as we had discussed in the previous quarters, we've been so focused during the crisis of late 2008 or early 2009 of cash preservation, to make sure that we do not put at risk the cash that we had accumulated, and then over the last couple quarters, we've begun the transition to a more balanced portfolio, so you're also seeing proper kind of ramp up and yield there as well.

So these are the big ticket items that usually fluctuate, or you have questions on the P & L so I'm glad you asked the question, thanks.

MARIA SHIM: Could we take our next question please?

OPERATOR: We'll take our next question from James Mitchell from Goldman Sachs.

JAMES MITCHELL, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Thank you for taking another question. I believe you mentioned on the fourth quarter 2008 results call that the quarter was "one of our strongest ad quality improvement" whereas on the call now you just mentioned that the quality launches are more modest in terms of impact on monetization. Is it fair to infer that the fourth quarter 2008 revenue benefited more from ad quality initiatives versus fourth quarter 2009 revenue?

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: That's a pretty hard question to fully parse without my actually going back and digging into the data. It is consistently the case that we freeze quality improvements after Thanksgiving, so I'd have to actually look at what the exact improvements were and when they occurred intraquarter comparing Q4 this quarter to Q4 last quarter and without actually having that in front of me, it's pretty hard to say.

JAMES MITCHELL: Okay. Thank you very much.

MARIA SHIM: Can we take our next question please?

OPERATOR: We'll take our next question from Mark Mahaney from Citigroup.

MARK MAHANEY, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Thanks. There was a recent deal with Twitter in terms of live feeds and Jonathan you mentioned your own anecdotal experiment or uses of it. Can you make any broad comments about what kind of impact that you think that's had on overall usage if you found any levels of greater engagement because of the inclusion of realtime Twitter results in your overall search results, anything in terms of click through rates, length of time, number of searches, anything like that? Thank you.

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: I'm not sure I have any great data to offer you there. The sets of things that we're now incorporating in the realtime search are Tweets, blogs, news. We certainly see those dynamics when you have something that is very interesting like an earthquake, so the feature we think is certainly performing well, and it's giving people better quality results much more expeditiously than they previously had, but what the overall impact is across search and each of the other metrics, I think it's still too early to say.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Well I think it is worth saying that in the last again if you go back in the last six to nine months, people tend, the thing that continues to amaze me on the search side is how people almost take it for granted that search works, and when you look at the last six to nine months, like realtime search introduction which was really done in the second half this year, the complete overhaul of the caffeine, so that from a speed perspective, and tying it all back again to the Mobile, I mean it is amazing the kind of searches you can do right now just typing in a few words that even six months ago you wouldn't dreamt of doing so from that perspective I think it was really important to us to get realtime search up and running because there are a lot of types of information that people want on a kind of actual basis because it just happened, and having these feeds provide so much value, so in that sense I think that there's no doubt that they're having an impact. Now the issue is we haven't, Mark, we haven't asked the economics team that actually can run these models, give me a sample and then do an experiment, and so it's a good question to ask, but there's no doubt that it clearly improved the experience.

MARK MAHANEY: Can I ask also a quick question on China? Is there a solution here whereby you can stay committed to China in the future and not sensor search results? Is there some sort of work around on that?

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: Now, look. The team is working on this and I think it's really important that we stick to Eric's comments of earlier this afternoon so I'd just refer you back to his comments.

MARIA SHIM: Okay, thanks. Next question, please?

OPERATOR: We'll take our next question from Ben Schachter from Broadpoint AmTech.

BEN SCHACHTER, ANALYST, BROADPOINT AMTECH: Patrick a couple of housekeeping modeling questions. On the housekeeping front, could you give us specifics on how you're accounting for Nexis One products being sold, so are you taking inventory and the P & L and also on gross margin it's also trending up significantly from lower CapEx. Is there anything that's going to offset that any time soon and then Jonathan if you could, CPA product ads. I know it's still early stages here but how widespread are they, where are we in the rollout of that product and general thoughts on the product, thanks.

PATRICK PICHETTE: So let me start with the specific of Nexis One. We have partnerships with T-Mobile with that specific handset right now. We actually booked them to other revenue so the revenue comes as other revenue and we recognize the full $529 per device up front, so and it's tied into the licensing and other set of revenue and then that's regardless if it's an unlocked phone or a T-Mobile phone, and then in terms of the gross margin, sorry, the cost obviously goes to other costs and on the gross margin, I think that the thing that you've noticed properly that over the last two quarters not only did CapEx run wild but because CapEx ran well also our data center expenses as we continue to push for efficiencies we've got some benefits out of that as well, and again, can't push forward, so give you any details in the future, but you should take comfort we're managing these efficiencies quite well now. One last point Ben you talked about on the Nexis. On the inventory side, it's really immaterial to us. It's inconsequential so we don't have a big exposure on inventory and clearly not on margin, so I'll turn it over to Jonathan.

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: Yes, hi, Ben. The product ads I think are still going on a relatively small portion of the queries, I was trying to come up with an example and it took me a couple of tries, jogging strollers if you type into Google will show you one, but I think it's a small portion of the queries. It's certainly, there's certainly a lot of interest from the advertisers. We started by focusing on the larger retailers and it was just a relatively small number of them but it's a great ad experience for users because you see the pictures, you see the prices, it gives users a lot more information to help them decide which product to buy, so I'm very excited about the form, but I think right now it's still in pretty nascent stages in terms of the number of participants and the degree to which it shows itself in the results.

MARIA SHIM: Great. Can we have our next question please?

OPERATOR: We'll take our next question from Justin Post from Merrill Lynch.

JUSTIN POST, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Yes, just wanted to talk about the CapEx efficiencies. Really able to pull back your CapEx budget and just going forward, do you think you can still see a lot of the efficiencies or do you think you just kind of need a ramp up as you see growth kind of reaccelerating, what's your view on that?

PATRICK PICHETTE: It's a tough answer to give for the following reason, and I don't want to be evasive but here is the real issue is because Google as you know does its own data centers and most of its equipment is built and designed by ourselves, all you need is, by pushing hard on the limits of this equipment, and working really hard to make sure we get good performance, you got a couple of good breaks, and as you see in the last 12 months, you got a really nice break from a CapEx perspective, and in the future, we're obviously pushing the team for utilization and design to make sure that we get as many of those as possible. What's the beta on that? It's pretty high, but every time you get one you get a lot of value and you have at least some evidence that we're pretty good at it, so there lies the tension that I have Justin with, because I'm not just assembling stuff that's off the shelf from regular products, I can give you the exact forecast and life goes on, it's much more difficult to actually answer your question. Having said that, there's no doubt as you can see in the last 12 months the level of committment that we have in making sure that we're going to be capital efficient, and on the flip side of that, if we ever needed to actually ramp up our CapEx for whatever reason, we're ready to pounce as well, so that's the balance we're trying to strike.

JUSTIN POST: Thank you.

MARIA SHIM: Can we take our next question please?

OPERATOR: We'll take our next question from Brian Pitz from UBS.

BRIAN PITZ, ANALYST, UBS: Great. Thanks. Just quickly regarding China, I know you guys have said so far but help us think about something for a second. If you in fact made the decision to leave this market, do you think you would still operate your AdSense and/or apps businesses which are pretty much unrelated to censorship in the region? Thanks.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Yes, I think again, I'm going to ask everybody to be patient over the coming weeks as we're working through the resolution of this issue. I think that Eric was quite eloquent in the way he tried to communicate with the blog post was very clear as to the objectives we have, and Eric was quite eloquent so I just would circle back to his answers, and just in a way, work with us as we have over the coming weeks, you can imagine that we're working really hard at this, and as soon as we have more information we'll let you know.

BRIAN PITZ: Thanks.

MARIA SHIM: Could we take one more question please?

OPERATOR: We'll take our next question from Spencer Wang from Credit Suisse.

SPENCER WANG, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Thanks for squeezing me in. Was just wondering if we look at the international markets was wondering as you guys have wrapped up 2009 and 2010 which geographies do you think you'd have the most opportunity to gain incremental share in search, thanks.

PATRICK PICHETTE: In search, I think the answer is "yes." I mean, you'd expect to have in every area with the kind of product rollouts that we have and the focus that we have, I wouldn't say that we are favoring one market versus another to actually push. I mean there's clearly, the world is really divided into kind of three sets of markets, as Nikesh always pointed out. You have the very mature market of the US and the UK, and then the next tier of kind of somewhat mature markets but with a lot of head room which is the kind of big European countries, Japan and all the kind of industrialized countries and then you have all of these other emerging economies, that actually are very promising, very different CPC, but very promising, and we have a balanced set of approaches for each of them, because they are so different in terms of where they are, and that's why, even the marketing is different for each of then because of the different circumstances, so our objective is to continue to actually increase our share of search by having to write both kind of total global products but also pushing on localization with languages and everything else that you hear from us.

SPENCER WANG: Great. Thanks.

MARIA SHIM: Thank you.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Maria, so why don't I close? I want to, Mary it's funny or somebody else I think it was Mary that talked about we feel optimistic about 2010. I think that we have had and we're very optimistic for the reason that we see great trajectories from our 2009. I think Eric said it very well. 2009 was a real year of testing.

We tend to forget how fast 12 months has passed, but the roller coaster we went through over Q1, Q2, Q3 and Q4 of this year, we're delighted to see the recovery in terms of our growth rates, the performance of the business, and the innovation that we drove through 2009, so from that perspective, that's why the Company feels confident about not only 2010 but its long term prospects in all these areas, so with that, I'd like to thank everybody for your great questions and I look forward to seeing you at the end of Q1. Have a happy New Year, everyone. Cheers. I'll leave Connie to close the call.

OPERATOR: Thank you and this concludes today's conference. We thank you for your participation.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
goog : Google Inc.
   IN
i8395464 : Internet Search Engines | iint : Internet/Online Services
   NS
c32 : Advertising | cmarkr : Market Research | c11 : Plans/Strategy | c22 : New Products/Services | nitv : Interview | ntra : Transcript | c31 : Marketing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020100204e61l002mi
  


 HD
 Q4  2009 Google Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
10,164 words
   PD
21 January 2010
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©010 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
OPERATOR: Good day, and welcome, everyone, to the Google Inc. conference call. This call is being recorded. At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Ms. Maria Shim, Senior Manager of Investor Relations. Please go ahead, ma'am.

   TD
MARIA SHIM, SR MANAGER - IR, GOOGLE, INC.: Good afternoon, everyone, and welcome to today's fourth quarter and fiscal year 2009 earnings conference call. With us are Eric Schmidt, Chief Executive Officer; Patrick Pichette, Chief Financial Officer; Jonathan Rosenberg, Senior Vice President, project management; and Nikesh Arora, President, global sales operations and business development. Eric, Patrick Jonathan and Nikesh will provide us with their thoughts on the quarter and full year and then we will take your questions. This call is being webcast from our investor relations's website located at investor.google.com. Please refer to our website for important information, including our earnings press release issued a few minutes ago, along with slides that accompany today's prepared remarks. A replay of this call will also be available on our website in a few hours. Please note that we routinely post important information on our investor relations's website located at investor.google.com and we encourage you to make use of that resource.

As a reminder, today we're holding two calls. On this call we will discuss our strategic overview and Q&A with the usual format followed by a second call, which is effectively an extend Q&A session with Jonathan and Patrick giving the opportunity for participants to ask more detailed financial and product questions in a efficient and [regacy] complaint manner. The second call will begin at 3:00 PM Pacific time and will also be webcast from our investor relations website.

Now let me quickly cover the Safe Harbor. Some statements we make today may be considered forward-looking, including statements regarding Google's future and investments in our long-term growth and innovation, expected performance of our business and our expected level of capital expenditures. These statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially. Please note that these forward-looking statements reflect our opinions only as of the date of this presentation and we undertake no obligation to revise our publicly release the results of any revision of these forward-looking statements in light of new information or future events. Please refer to our SEC filings, including our annual report on Form 10-K for the year-ended December 31, 2008, as well as our earnings press release for a more detailed release of risk factors that may affect our results. Copies can be obtained from the SEC or by visiting the investor relations section of our website.

Also please note that certain financial measures we use on this call, such as operating profit and operating margin, are expressed in a non-GAAP basis and have been adjusted to exclude charges relating to stock-based compensation. We have also adjusted our net cash provided by operating activities to remove capital expenditures, which we refer to as free cash flow. Our GAAP results and GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliation can be found in our press release.

With that I will turn the call over to Eric.

ERIC SCHMIDT, CEO, GOOGLE, INC.: Well, thank you. Good afternoon to all, happy new year and welcome to our Q4 earnings call. This is a very strong for Google, an extraordinary end to a rollercoaster year by any means -- measures. 17% year-on-year revenue growth and we performed literally, I think, well across the board. We learned a lot in 2009. The strength of our management team, the talent of our employees, [pace in] innovation within our product and engineering teams -- if you take a look, the investments we made, for example, in Chrome and Chrome OS that we announced over the summer, -- the resilience of our business model -- when advertising dollars are scarce measurement matters even more so we tended to benefit more than you might have expected and that's great -- and we're optimistic about the future as a result. A digital economy continues to grow very rapidly and specifically we're moving literally eyeballs and advertising online, we continue to benefit from that. And our decision to start ramping up our investments in Q3, which we talked maybe six months ago, was clearly the right one so we'll get the benefit of that now in 2010.

So we continue to invest heavily for the long term, investments that are designed to maintain and even increase Google's pace of innovation. So where are we investing? Well, we're obviously going to invest first in people; engineering -- the best engineering, best technical, best researchers and so forth and product sales in key markets across the country in all the ways that we've talked about before. Second, of course, investment is in technological innovation, which is our core value proposition, if you will. We're going to follow the 70/20/10, which has worked well for us. 70% in our established businesses; search with emphasis on search quality as we continue our quest, which will never be fully realized, to create the perfect search engine. We added, for example, realtime search in Q4, which has been very successful. More than 550 search qualify enhancements in 2009, far more than one per day [for obvious] and it just continues to accelerate.

Search advertising shifting -- the shift online, as I talked about. Lots of growth in our core business as a result of that shift. Display, we've talked about before, is now a huge opportunity for Google. 60-quality improvements in our display ads and last year YouTube, great progress with our TV and music deals in Q4, which have been discussed already if the press. Enterprise business, again, very strong, terrific momentum there as people move to the web-based model with products that really work very well. In the 20% area, newer businesses, these are newer businesses that fuel our search business, for example mobile. Everybody knows about the success of Android, our search traffic increased five times in the past two years. The Droid and Nexus One show the power of the Android approach; great devices, multiple partners, great features, lots of different use cases, again a pretty clear success at this point. We also have our 10% long-view investments and here we're interested in things like commerce and social initiatives, which Jonathan will talk some more about.

A third component for 2010 will be acquisitions. We've -- the pace of deals in Q4 shows that we're at least on a path of one per month and we should expect that to continue. Some big, more small than big probably and designed either to build upon an existing business, the most obvious being Terasen and DoubleClick, but also to bring in new talent. If you look at the Gizmo5 acquisition, again people with a unique expertise that we can use as part of our platform. So overall, very pleased with the performance in Q4. We're back in business full blast and throughout 2009, if you look at it, we're investing heavily, we're excited about continuing to reinvent search, which continues to be our core mission.

I think with that why do not we turn it over to Patrick and take us through the numbers. Patrick?

PATRICK PICHETTE, CFO, GOOGLE, INC.: Thank you, Eric. Good afternoon, everyone. I'll go through the financial results quickly and then turn it over to Jonathan and Nikesh for more details on our performance. We had a strong [business through] 2009. We're very pleased with the Q4 results and that gives us, as Eric said, the confidence to turn our focus to the growth opportunities in 2010 already, making already in the back end of 2009 the necessary and significant investments to pursue those opportunities. So let's go through the numbers quickly.

Our gross revenue grew 17% year over year to $6.7 billion. Our business was strong across the board; in search, display, apps and mobile. Nikesh will go into more details on our performance in a few minutes on these matters. Google website revenue was up 16% year over year to $4.4 billion. We saw strong growth on Google.com across the world, boosted by very strong retail season, economic recovery in many of our major geographies, as well as some favorable FX. We also saw some impressive growth in YouTube revenues. AdSense revenue was up 21% year over year to $2 billion, driven primarily by solid performance in AdSense research, the strength in AdSense for content and growth in our display initiatives. Our global aggregate Paid Click growth remained healthy, up 13% year over year and 9% quarter over quarter. The aggregate cost (inaudible) growth was also up 5% year over year and 2% quarter over quarter. Year-over-year CPC growth was also positively impacted by some of the effects. Remember, too, that this an aggregate number, which includes both Google and AdSense properties and also includes diverse geographic markets, some which have lower CPCs.

Turning to our geographic performance, revenue from the US was up 11% year over year to $3.2 billion. International revenue accounted for 53% of our total revenue, or $3.5 billion, with about $8 million of benefits from hedging program this quarter. The UK was up 13% year over year to $772 million, and this despite a weaker pound in Q4 2009 compared to last year. Finally, using fixed year-over-year exchange rate our international revenues would have been roughly $196 million lower. So let me turn to expenses.

Our traffic acquisition costs were $1.7 billion, or 27% of total advertising revenue; our other costs of revenue was $688 million, including our stock-based compensation of $6 million; and finally, all other operating costs total about $1.8 billion, including approximately $270 million in stock-based compensation. So on a year-over-year basis our OpEx, excluding SBC, was higher by $138 million and up $172 quarter over quarter, the increase, both year over year and quarter over quarter primarily due to increases in marketing spend. As a result, our non-GAAP operating profit,which excludes the stock-based compensation, increased to $2.8 billion in Q4, resulting in a non-GAAP operating margin of 41%, 41.3% to be exact. Our headcount was also slightly up at the end of the quarter, approximately 20,000 full-time employees, and as Eric discussed, we plan to continue to aggressively hire through this year, particularly in engineering and sales.

Let me turn for a moment to cash management. Our other income and expense was $88 million for Q4, and for more details on OI&E please refer to the slides that accompany this call on our investor relations website. Our effective tax rate for the quarter was 23%. Now turning then to operating cash flow it was also very strong at $2.7 billion. CapEx for the quarter was $221 million, again primarily related to our data center operations. We continue to make significant CapEx investments and these continue to be lumpy quarter to quarter depending on the timing of when we're able to make these investments. The net of all this is a net cash flow quite strong at $2.5 billion for the quarter. So in summary, we're very pleased with the strong performance of Q4 across revenue, margins and cash flow. As we enter 2010 we're very excited about the opportunities in our core business, our display, mobile, apps, and so you should expect us to continue to drive real investments in significant ways in the areas we believe have real long-term opportunities for Google and that will accelerate our pace of innovation.

With that, thank you for your time. I'll now turn it to Jonathan, who despite, you'll hear ,quite a rough voice and a bad cold, I can assure you has all his regular, expected energy. I'm going to turn it to Jonathan.

JONATHAN ROSENBERG, SVP - PRODUCT MANAGEMENT, GOOGLE, INC.: Okay, thank you, Patrick, I'll do my best. So naturally I think that part of our success this past year was the result of a very focused product strategy. At the beginning of 2009 our strategy was basically to double down on our core, which was Search, AdWords and Display and, of course, push on monetizing YouTube. We also wanted to invest in Chrome, Chrome OS and GEO, and at the same time we made some very hard decisions to focus our resources. We shut down Lively, Notebook and our ads -- and our audio ads efforts. Internally we refer to this as the more wood behind fewer arrows approach, and I think it worked for 2009.

As we look back AdWords launched a whole new front end and several new ad formats that I think you can see are delivering results. Android started 2009 with just one device and is now at 20 in 48 countries and I'm proudly carrying the gorgeous new Nexus One in my pocket. DoubleClick is now fully integrated and Display's ramping nicely and we open sourced a whole new operating system designed for the internet era with Chrome OS. We also saw a steady stream of small businesses, large enterprises and lots of schools move to the cloud. And YouTube is, in fact it turns out, monetizing well and we're hoping lots of our partners who are working with us there make money. But most importantly, Search did particularly well in 2009 and I think that may be the best example of what we feel we can do when we double down and focus. We launched 550 quality enhancements, which Eric mentioned; we produced a much bigger and faster index; we expanded the capabilities of universal search; and we added tools like the search options that let you work with your results to get to the best answer.

We also launched music search and realtime search, which are pretty amazing. I don't know if any of you are actually in Northern California, but we had this 4.1 earthquake a couple of weeks ago and my office shook while I was in it and two minutes later, Google Search was showing me people's tweets from all over the Bay area talking about the quake that had just occurred and within minutes I was looking at news reports and the USGS data on the same quake. This looks easy, but we had to build dozens of new search technologies so we could process the hundreds of millions of realtime changes that occur each day to make it happen.

Eric mentioned that in 2010 we're going to be investing, so let me try to take a minute to talk about how we're thinking about making those investments. Of course we're going to pour a lot into Search. The key there, as always, is time to result. How fast can we get the user to the best answer for her or him; whether that's a web page, a map, a video, a twitter update, whatever it is. We're also going to work hard on making the ads richer, more diverse and more useful. We've talked about the single perfect ad and we mean that from the perspective of both the advertiser and the user at the same time. Beyond search and search ads, I think we see a few major trends that are transforming the internet and we think we're in a great position to compete in those areas, too. The first is social and when you say social I think people think of social networks, but really we believe the entire web is social, so we're going to look at making all of our products more social. We think you're more likely to trust a restaurant or a movie review from a friend of yours than from a stranger, so maybe it should be rated as a higher-quality result, but only for you.

The internet is also local and we see more and more a business' online presence is as important as its physical one, so we're trying to make it easier for businesses to manage that presence and to connection with people who might actually be right around the corner and want to find them. The web has also always been about commerce and now more and more people who buy stuff online are starting their -- who buy things offline are starting their shopping process and researching all of that stuff online, and we want to help those people decide what to get, and where to get it, whether it's offline or online. Personalization is also getting more important and we think mobile is a big part of that. More users, both for Search and other products, are accessing us from mobile devices and with all of the capabilities these phones that are coming out have, GPS, cameras, we think there's the potential to actually make this mobile web better than the PC web. Finally the shift through enterprises to online will accelerate and now we think organizations are moving to the cloud, not because they save money, but because it's actually a better way to run their business. They can do things in the cloud that they simply cannot do in the old desktop world.

So those are the trends that are guiding our product plans in 2010 and we think it's going to be an exciting year and we'll certainly look forward to sharing our progress with you on future calls. So with that I guess I'll turn it over to Nikesh.

NIKESH ARORA, PRESIDENT - GLOBAL SALES OPERATIONS & BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT, GOOGLE, INC.: Thank you, Jonathan. This was an exciting quarter for us after a challenging year. 2009 started under a cloud of uncertainty, but after about three quarters of steadily-improving performance I'm now pleased to report that we ended the year with a robust quarter in revenues. Let me take a quick few minutes to provide details on some examples of how advertisers can and have better leveraged their online market to reach their audiences. The first macro trend affecting all our our ad-driven businesses was a continued rising adoption of online advertising by larger companies. In these tighter economic times we saw bigger companies like Staples, Volvo, Ubisoft, Abbott Labs, et cetera, turn an increasing proportion of their spend to what is a more measurable ROI of online advertising. They're basically shifting to where their audiences spend their time.

Looking globally we saw a significant uptake in retail advertisers' in online spending. This was, for a change, driven by both online e-Tailers,as well as traditional brick-and-mortar companies. Our sales teams took advantage of this trend and had strong showings on Black Friday and Cyber Monday, which marked the start of the largest e-Commerce holiday season in history. It's interesting to note, remember, search ads are always a better value in December. CPC's go up but CP's go down, because people end up buying more during that period.

Let me give you a geographic flavor of how our revenues fared out in the world. Within the US (inaudible) come back to the economic recovery is being (inaudible), particularly in sectors with strong a ROI focus. On the other side of the Atlantic UK companies in verticals that have been traditional large spenders in offline have also increased their online ad budgets. If you shift to emerging markets we're very happy with our performance. In most of these markets we see very clear effects of underlying economic expansion again, as well as the accelerating adoption of both search and online display advertising. For example, our Q4 growth in Brazil was particularly strong, driven by our efforts to educate the advertisers and the underpenetrated companies to help them understand the value of online advertising and what that represents in their overall marketing mix.

The second big trend we are seeing is brand marketers continue to better understanding the online display format and incorporate that into their campaigns. With our broad portfolio of products we are pleased with the performance of pretty much all four parts of our Display strategy; YouTube, (inaudible) Network, DoubleClick and our Ad Exchange. In YouTube we've had many successful brand advertising campaigns of note. One that you might have come across is Fox's integrated media campaign for Avatar, which used pretty much all four parts of our display strategy. If you haven't seen it you can go to the web to YouTube (inaudible) Avatar and it will show you the interacted -- integrated multimedia channel, which (inaudible) advertising the movie's trailer in high def. We're also very excited about an event we held at American Express and Sony for World AIDs Day, where we streamed and hosted live Alicia Keys benefit concert on YouTube. In the campaign American Express and Sony were able to reach millions of viewers in 167 countries around the world. Beyond YouTube brand advertisers continue to see the value of our million publishers in our content network. And finally, the Ad Exchange, which we launched in Q3, continues to show good progress and is increasingly becoming an important part of the Display ecosystem. We believe most of the top networks are now signed on to the exchange.

Third, as Jonathan mentioned, we continue to see global trend towards cloud computing speed up. As more companies grow more and more comfortable with hosted applications our sales teams are moving quickly to capitalize on these opportunity. We had key wins at Jaguar, National Geographic, as one of our most comprehensive deals with the city of Los Angeles it's moved 30,000 users to Google Apps. So (inaudible) these major commercial wins we'ver signed educational deal at Virginia Tech and Fresno State, while both small and medium-sized businesses continue to adopt Google Apps. Finally, with the trends that Jonathan mentioned, the penetration of smartphones and other mobile devices our sales teams are continuing to work with advertisers who can reach and target their customers through mobile advertising like never before. One campaign of specific note was done by Razorfish, an agency partner of ours, to use targeted mobile campaign to improve conversion rates for (inaudible) retail clients by approximately 10%, so we continue to see promise in this area.

Now I'm going to turn it over to Patrick to set up the question period.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thank you, Nikesh. So everybody will remember that our last call we had set up a dory page -- a question page online to sort out through the questions and answers and to your feedback and actually having tested that, we prefer actually to go back to our more traditional mode. So thanks for actually having tried it with us and in spirit of innovation and I'll turn it to Connie to set up the call and the questions.

OPERATOR: Thank you. (Operator instructions). And we'll take our first question from James Mitchell from Goldman Sachs.

JAMES MITCHELL, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Thanks very much for the question. It looked like your US revenue accelerated from 4% year-on-year growth in third to 11% year on year in the fourth quarter, which was great, while your international revenue growth accelerated from 19% in the third quarter to 21% in the fourth quarter and 21% is still a big number but not as sharp an acceleration. I wonder if the discrepancy was due to any of the following. First, the US having easier comps than the international than a year ago; second, the monetization improvements you mad in the US that you haven't yet rolled out internationally; or third, bet the fact that the display advertising is benefiting your US business more than your international business at this point? Thank you.

ERIC SCHMIDT: So I'll let Nikesh give you a sense of the focus that he's put in the US in Q4.

NIKESH ARORA: The US, as I mentioned earlier, we have been able to see the continued shift of large advertisers, which started in Q3 and continued to Q4 and has been reasonably strong. On the international side, I'm very pleased with the growth we've seen across the world but you have to understand there's a mix issue. There are different parts of the world which grow at different bases and whilst we continue to see growth in most markets, there are some of the markets where we're seeing growth, which are like Brazil, as I mentioned, which are causing that growth rate to look different than the US. Great, let's go to the next question.

OPERATOR: And we'll take our next question from Mark Mahaney from Citigroup.

MARK MAHANEY, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Thanks, two questions, please. The sequential growth is actually very similar to what you had in 2007, is it pretty clear to you that overall search spending trends are back to normal seasonal patterns, or are there still verticals that seem still weak to you? Not retail, obviously, but other areas. And then secondly, the materiality of mobile could you talk about any data points of sequential grown in searches, what percentage searches are off mobile devices in any particular markets? Thank you.

ERIC SCHMIDT: So just in a very general issue, we would not comment on -- about the mobile and how it affects our total revenue. And then general, there's clearly -- you see through the second half of 2009 a recovery in economic activity worldwide and that clearly has shown up in our results, but I'll let Nikesh give you an bit more (inaudible).

NIKESH ARORA: From a vertical perspective, as I mentioned, we have seen very strong strength in the retail vertical across the board pretty much around the world. We've also continued to see strength in technology vertical. As you would expect, finance is not as strong as it was in 2007 and we're seeing stabilization and some amount of recovery. In addition to that, we continue to make progress with all the other verticals, like CPG, health, local, et cetera.

MARK MAHANEY: Thank you.

NIKESH ARORA: Let's go to the next question.

OPERATOR: And we'll take our next question from Ben Schachter from Broadpoint AmTech.

BEN SCHACHTER, ANALYST, BROADPOINT AMTECH: If you could rank the key monetization changes you made in 4Q and how do you think they're going to impact the model going forward? And then on mobile I was just wondering if you could have a broader discussion about how you think about the P&L there. Is this something you want to drive revenues, or is something you just want to push the internet experience forward on mobile? And then finally, any comments on China and the situation there? Thanks.

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: Hey, Ben, it's Jonathan. So I guess I can just start with the quality questions, since that's what you asked specifically. Q4 tends to be a modest quarter for us quality wise. We had about a dozen launches, but the dynamic that we have there is that we try to freeze the launches after Thanksgiving so that we have stability to our advertisers around the holiday period. So from an overall impact on RPM perspective, the quality launches are actually more modest. Some of the ads changes that we made -- site links, comparison ads and product extensions -- certainly started to take affect, as did the fact that all of our advertisers are now on AdWords 3, which we think is allowing them to be much more effective in terms of their bidding efforts. But I would generally describe the quarter as relatively modest from a quality perspective.

I can -- Nikesh and others maybe can give you their perspective on mobile. The main thing that I think we're starting to see there is that advertisers are getting better at figuring out what kind of ads work on the mobile devices. The simple addition, for example, of things like including a phone number or an offer is substantially increasing the click-through rates in the ROI for the subset of advertisers who are correctly optimizing their mobile campaign, so we're certainly seeing strong growth there.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Just on -- just to close on mobile. There really is a -- if you think about it, a two-prong strategy on it, which is, one is driving innovation and an ecosystem on one side, so when you think of all of the applications like Goggles and all of the (inaudible) you would have seen on voice recognition and navigation, that's all innovation that basically drives people to the web with these new mobile applications. Obviously, the more people spend their time on it then they trigger into search and then monetization occurs, so from that perspective I think that's the core engine of the mobile model. On China, I suggest that Eric answers that one, please.

ERIC SCHMIDT: Ben, I think the China stuff has been covered really quite well at the press. Just to review for everybody on the call, we announced a little more than a week ago three reasonably separate facts. One, that there had been a cyber attack on Google probably emanating from China origin, (inaudible) details on that one, still under investigation. We believe we've made the necessary technical changes to prevent such a future attack. The second was a -- we discovered in the course of that a perhaps related, perhaps unrelated, monitoring of human rights activists, which we disclosed in the spirit that people be aware that this may be occurring. And then the third was a decision -- for those reasons and other reasons, a decision for Google to no longer be willing to apply the censorship rules in China. It has a bunch of consequences. One, of course, is that we're in conversation with the Chinese government .

The second is that our business in China is today unchanged. We continue to follow their laws, we continue to offer censored results, but at a reasonably short time from now we will be making some changes there. We've made a strong statement that we wish to remain in China. We like the Chinese people, we like our Chinese employees, we like the business opportunities there, but we'd like to do that on somewhat different terms than we have, but we remain quite committed to being there. So I hope

NIKESH ARORA: Thanks, Eric. Let's go to the next question, please.

OPERATOR: And we'll take our next question from Justin Post from Merrill Lynch.

JUSTIN POST, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: Thank you. My question's more on a competitive issues than search. It looks like US did accelerated where I'd expect Bing to have the biggest impact, but are you seeing any share changes internationally related to any of your competitive initiatives? And then secondly, on the partner environment, are you seeing more competitive pressure on signing up partners given some of the initiatives of your competitors out there? Thank you.

ERIC SCHMIDT: On the competition question I think it's better for us to focus on what we do and not what our competitors are doing. I think our results speak for themselves and I'll let you judge how they're doing in the market, but it's a highly competitive market. The one area where there's probably a pretty big competitive event is whatever happens in China, which at this point is obviously unknown, but that would clearly make a difference. Nikesh?

NIKESH ARORA: We continue to work closely with our (inaudible) partners, both on the search and display side, and most of our partnerships are based on very clear ROI and very clear benefits to partners and to us and we haven't seen any change from our partner experiences in Q3 into Q4.

PATRICK PICHETTE: In fact, on the content side, the announcement of Vivo, the announcement of channel 4, 5 in the UK for YouTube there's, in fact, been an increase and we're very pleased about these type of partnerships. All right, let's go to the next question, please. Thanks, Justin, for your question.

OPERATOR: And we'll take our next question from Doug Anmuth from Barkleys Capital.

DOUG ANMUTH, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Thank you for taking the question. Two things, first, I was just wondering if you could comment on the relative outperformance of the network business versus O&O, if there is any specific dynamic in there that would make network growth higher? And then secondly, can you also comment on the higher marketing costs that you saw during the quarter and in particular how much of that is attributable to Android launches and the Droid, in particular? Thanks.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Right, so in terms of O&O versus network, nothing really significant to disclose in this quarter. On marketing, I think it's fair to say there is two things there. There's a high level and then I'll let Nikesh give a couple of comments. At the higher level, remember when we said at the end of Q3 that we wanted to ramp up our investment in a bunch of areas to accelerate our growth, marketing is one that you can actually affect in the short term quite well and because we have such a scientific approach to track it, we decided to invest a bit more in Q4. So Nikesh could probably give you a couple of examples of that.

NIKESH ARORA: For example many of our marketing efforts in Q4 have been targeted toward trying to educate and bring more and more small advertisers in the web, where they can clearly measure the ROI, clearly understand what of those is, so that's been on big focus. And the other big focus on the consumer side has just been to support some our (inaudible) consumer launches [that] happened in Q4.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thanks, Doug. We'll go to our next question, please.

OPERATOR: And we'll take our next question from Imran Khan from JPMorgan.

IMRAN KHAN, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Yes,hi, thank you for taking my questions. Two questions. You talked about search traffic increased five times in mobile. I'm trying to understand that unique economy. So what kind of revenue per search on mobile you are seeing compared to the PC? And secondly a couple of questions -- more related questions from the cost side. You talked about to spend more on the marketing in Q4, it is more of a one-time nature, do you expect that to go down in Q1? And also, how much were bonus accruals for Q4 due to exiting your full-year plan and should we think the bonus accrual will go down in Q1? Thank you.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Let me start with bonus and then we'll go back to the other question of marketing. So on bonus, here's what everybody has to remember because last year you'll remember there was a lot of questions about that. When we start a year, we reset the plan and as we progress through the year, if we varied the plan, whether positive or negative, then we have to make additional accruals, but at the beginning of the year we just don't know that. So in 2009 -- so in 2010, next quarter, you can expect that we will reset our plan and, therefore, we'll go back to the base number. For this year, 2009 specifically, we had actually by Q3 figured out that we had a different trajectory than the base plan and what we did is in consequences actually did a combination of cash up to Q3, Q4 to make sure we were properly provisioned for the bonus at year end, and that's why you haven't seen, like at the end of the Q4 of last year, a big blip for that reason. We've increased it but just in proportion to the second half of the year, so that's the key on bonus.

On marketing, I think the issue from a financial perspective clearly we donn't give any perspective view on marketing. I think the most important thing is that we're really pleased with the experiments we're running right now in the marketing domain. And again, I'll circle back to Nikesh if he wants to give more precision on it.

NIKESH ARORA: (inaudible) what Patrick said. No, we are going to look the at campaigns that we have in place, we're going to look at our products that we have in place and based on the ROI of those campaigns we're going ratchet our spend up or down in following quarters.

ERIC SCHMIDT: Great, And on mobile, maybe, Jonathan.

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: Can you hear me? I was muted, sorry, everyone. I'm not going to give specifics on mobile RPMs versus desktop RPMs, but I think the main thing we can say is that the new formats, the targeting tools and the reporting that we're giving the mobile advertisers is making the huge difference. And I mentioned Click-to-Call, putting phone numbers in the mobile ads making a difference. Try something like auto insurance on your phone and you'll see that the Progressive ad on the phone actually shows the phone number while on the PC it doesn't. And Nikesh gave the Razorfish example in his opening remarks and we're also letting the advertisers target high-end devices, specific devices or specific carriers, and we've also launched the reporting with analytics to the mobile phones, so we're starting to see much improved monetization in general across mobile.

IMRAN KHAN: Got it, thank you.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thank you, thanks for your questions. Let's go to the next question, please.

OPERATOR: And we'll take our next question from Brian Pitz from UBS.

BRIAN PITZ, ANALYST, UBS: Great, thanks. Over the last couple of quarters you've rolled out several new ad formats, such as site links and video ads on the the Google.com study, could you discuss the adoption of these formats among advertisers and any commentary on if these have formats have potentially lowered Paid Clicks and increased CTC's on the site? Thanks.

NIKESH ARORA: The ad formats we launched in Q4 have been very successful. The advertisers have taken them up very effectively. We've actually used our direct sales force across the US, as well as across major parts of Europe, and worked with some of our larger advertisers to increase cycling (inaudible) ad formal. I'll pass the CTC question back to Patrick.

PATRICK PICHETTE: We would not comment on the specifics of each one of them, but it's very clear that when you have product listing ads that have -- come at either new cost or action pricing models, ads that includes images and pricing within them, or even the comparison ads that we've now started introducing, all of these obviously provide more information to the user and, therefore, more value. So from that perspective it's been a real positive.

ERIC SCHMIDT: For people that are confused the easiest way to see what we're talking about is just try typing something like Sears into Google and you'll see the example of what Nikesh was referring to as ad site links and it's intuitively easy to see how they lead to higher user engagement. You'll see the electronics and tools, section, the deal of the day, and you can see how much of a better experience that is, both for the advertiser and for the user.

BRIAN PITZ: Great, thanks.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thank you, Brian. Let's go to the next question, please.

OPERATOR: And we'll take our next question from Spencer Wang from Credit Suisse.

SPENCER WANG, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Thanks, good afternoon. So my question is regarding YouTube monetization. I know you guys have talked about being happy with the monetization at YouTube, I was wondering if you could give us perhaps some updated metrics on how much of YouTube is being monetized? I think in previous calls you said it's tripled year over year so any update on that would be great. Thank you.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Well, we're not going to give any specific metrics on YouTube. What I can say is the big shift we are continuing to see in YouTube is that it's gone from being a nice to have to an essential part of the media mix of any display campaign that our advertisers planning and that's a big shift from our perspective. And we continue to see people -- and if you look at YouTube it's very easy to see. You can see that our home page ads are there on their watch paid ad -- watch paid ads are there and we've been able to expand that across the world in many markets where we have YouTube in place. Great performance -- just to close on -- when people think of key insights on YouTube, the home page was nearly sold out in Q4 and that was a great testimony of the power of YouTube and we're now running ads in 20 countries worldwide. So again, to give you a sense of perspective of how successful the YouTube has been. So I hopes that useful, Spencer.

SPENCER WANG: Thanks, Patrick.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Let's go to another question, please.

OPERATOR: And we'll take our next question from Scott Devitt from Morgan Stanley.

SCOTT DEVITT, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Hi, thank you. There was data in the quarter that suggested that large granite retailers grew online sales at roughly 15% in the quarter and that smaller retailers experienced slower growth? And given your broad visibility into ad spending, and particularly the long tail and smaller advertisers, wonder if you could comment on ad spending trends by advertiser size? Thanks.

NIKESH ARORA: As I alluded to this earlier, our larger advertisers continue to increase their online spending and upgrading search and online display within the marketing mix. So, retail has been particularly strong during the holiday season. Most of the large retailers have created very robust websites and they're able to target a very, very large host of key words and to some degree automated this stuff and we continue to work with some of our small advertisers and bring them to fray. It's purely a mix issue and a seasonal issue where we see the larger advertisers outperform the smaller ones.

SCOTT DEVITT: Thank you.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thanks for your question, Scott. Let's go to the next question, please.

OPERATOR: And we'll take our next question from Sandeep Aggarwal from Collins Stewart.

SANDEEP AGGARWAL, ANALYST, COLLINS STEWART: Thanks for taking my question. Can you please rank your noncore search businesses in terms of the growth potential, i.e., display, YouTube, mobile and apps? And then also, any color you can add on your partnership/company dynamics with Google and Apple?

ERIC SCHMIDT: This is Eric. It depends on whether you're looking at asset growth or percentage growth. Obviously the smaller ones are going to grow lar -- going to grow faster than larger ones. We have said for a pretty long time that the next huge business for us is display and we've put in place a series of acquisitions, a series of products, we've integrated them, we're seeing the benefit of that. I think one of the stories that's not really come out yet is how successful Google is at display and I think you'll see that ,especially in 2010. So if I were to talk about absolute numbers that are not search I would say thats probably your number one. But obviously the smaller ones will grow faster on a relative basis. There the most obvious one in terms of growth rate will be mobile and a lot of that depends on the competitive dynamics of the industry, how successful the new AFMA product from us is, the (inaudible) acquisition as that comes through. We have a lot of evidence that people are moving to these data sens -- data friendly mobile devices very, very, very quickly. Our search traffic is quite a bit -- growth rate is quite a bit faster than on PC's, we expect that to continue. So for lots of reasons 2010 will be a year of significant mobile revenue growth for the whole industry and I'm sure Google will play a major part of that.

With respect to Apple, it's probably better to say that Apple, I, as a former board member, have a special spot for Apple in my heart, but I will tell you that Apple is a very well-run company, they've got a lot of very good stuff coming. We have a couple of very good partnerships with them and it's clear we also compete with them in a couple of areas and my guess is that's a pretty stable situation for a while.

NIKESH ARORA: Thank you, Eric. Thank you for your questions. Let's go to the next question, please.

OPERATOR: And we'll take our next question from Jeetil Patel from Deutsche Bank Securities.

JEETIL PATEL, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK SECURITIES: Great, thanks, two questions. One, I'm just taking a step back. You've got a $23 billion business built around advertising and it seems like it's got some sensitivities to the macro environment these days. As you look forward and the broader ecosystem of consumers and business partners you work with, are there newer, more unique ways of adding value to the broader ecosystem in terms of new revenue models or business models that are maybe worthwhile exploring as you look ahead and to try to break away from the sensitivity of the ad business that seems to be tied to macro? Second, on mobile your strategy seems to be a little bit perplexing in that you've a partnership strategy with a slew of handset OEMs and then the Nexus One, is that a comparison of network and O&O, is that how we should think about the evolution of that strategy, or are you just trying to push the smartphone category and be the -- obviously the interfacing brand that consumers use to access information through those devices?

PATRICK PICHETTE: Okay, we'll let Eric answer both of those.

ERIC SCHMIDT: On your question about the macro, we said last year and reiterate that we are not immune to global economic trends. I think the evidence would say that we fared better than most Companies in a global economic downturn and hopefully global recovery that is clearly under way at this point. We've seen that at last for six months, maybe longer, so I'm not so worried about our reliance on ads, which is the premise of your question. From our perspective our goal as a business is to solve the advertisers and the other businesses problems, which is ultimately about selling product and marketing and so forth. We are in various conversations about trying to do alternative ways to distribute digital content, we're trying to come up with new ways of using GPS data to advertise against position and place. We have a lot of initiatives of this category.

The ones that will probably have the biggest impact are not in that, as much as those are exciting, will probably be if the display area because in aggregate size our display business will give people an opportunity to reach people with visual stories, with images, with narratives that they couldn't did with search text. So it's probably the case that the combination of local advertising, all of the things that we're doing in display, plus some of these new and more speculative things are likely to drive a lot of new ways of solving the businesses problems. We also -- we haven't talked very much about this, but we have quite a healthy enterprise business that's going to grow, we think, quite rapidly over the next few years as people move from the older legacy PC-centric traditional operating system model to the new web-based application model. And the trend there is clear, everyone's moving there and we're going to be one of the leaders there.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Eric, do you want to comment on the issue of mobile and the question that was about the perplexity of the -- our business model?

ERIC SCHMIDT: The question -- the second part of your question, of course, was on Nexus One and that model and I think there's a lot confusion about that. It's probably easiest to understand in the following way. What the Nexus One is really about is a new way of buying a phone and the Nexus One is simply the first of a series of examples where you can essentially purchase a phone online from one or multiple manufacturers, (inaudible) and have it just work and we think that's a natural evolution of a particular model. It doesn't -- it does not exclude the other models, I think it's compatible with them in the sense that the retail model will continue to be quite successful. So far our partners have understood that message and they have been okay with it and the Nexus One itself, of course, is a magnificent product.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thank you, Eric. Let's go to the next question, please.

OPERATOR: And we'll take our next question from Jason Helfstein from Oppmeir -- Oppenheimer & Co.

JASON HELFSTEIN, ANALYST, OPPERNHEIMER & CO.: Hi, thanks. First question, are you seeing -- do you think Bing is having a impact on the cost per click? And then number two, do you expect the tax rate to rise in 2010 with the improvement in US revenues? Thanks.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Let me answer the second one first and then we can come back to the first one. But on the issue of taxation, obviously we don't give any kind of guidance forward. We were -- we continue to monitor very closely all the issues related to those tax bills and the legislation, and obviously we're -- like most American companies that have large international presence, we continue to believe that it would be a disadvantage to have some of the proposals that had been tabled. So we're going to continue to participate in the process very actively to make our voice heard and -- but we can't speculate as to the out comes of these things. In terms of Bing, Jonathan, do you want to give a comment on it?

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: Sure. We generally do not comment on competitors. We gen -- we think our CPC's are not generally impacted by what other search engines do. Our CPCs are set by competition among advertisers and we've got a very competitive auction market.

PATRICK PICHETTE: That's the essence of the point, people choose. So why don't we go to the next question, please.

OPERATOR: And we'll take our next question from Gene Munster from Piper Jaffray.

GENE MUNSTER, ANALYST, PIPER JAFFRAY: Can you guys talk a little bit about the impact of Nexus One to the model, specifically to the margins going forward? Thank you.

PATRICK PICHETTE: In its most simplistic form we don't track percentage margins as part of our business model. What we're looking for is opportunities to innovate, to ship product that we think really are disruptive game changing to the benefit of users and the Nexus One is a great example of that in setting the bar as to what a great mobile headset should look like and it will have it's own margin and that's how we're focused on building the business. Let's go to the next question, please.

OPERATOR: And we'll take our next question from mark may from Needham & Company.

MARK MAY, ANALYST, NEEDHAM & COMPANY: Hi, thanks, two please. We've been hearing from a number of AdSense partners that Google's [TAC] rate is tending toward Google's favor, is the fourth quarter TAC decline a reflection of a declining trend in TAC, or is it just seasonal? And then the second question is, I think investors have a good sense of the assets and such that Google brings to bear in the online display space, but it doesn't have a good sense of the size of Google's display business and the trend and market share there, so the question is just how big in fact is Google in display today?

PATRICK PICHETTE: Let me start with the TAC issues. We have a lot of great partnerships with so many of our AdSense partners and other partners. The fact that it's been trending down has to do simply with mix issues and it's not really tied to seasonality. So we -- there's nothing of a big surprise there in our mind and we continue to have great partnerships with all of our partners on AdSense and others. In the case of display, I think that the few facts that we shared already on the last webcast on display that are worth mentioning is the industry itself is a $17 billion industry, so it's a big pie and if you just take the TV advertising industry, which is a $117 billion industry, that is all [eyeballs] that are shifting over time to the internet or digital content, that's also going to make it -- some of it;s going to make its way progressively to display. So there's no doubt it's a huge pie to go after. And then from our side, we clearly don't comment on the specifics of our market share or our revenue dollars, but I think you should take from the tonality of Eric's comments that this is a really big focus for us because it's got a lot of runway. And I'll leave it at that if you do not mind. Let's go to the next question, please.

OPERATOR: And we'll take our next question from Youssef Squali from Jefferies & Co.

YOUSSEF SQUALI, ANALYST, JEFFERIES & CO.: Thank you very much, two questions, please. First, on mobile, we've seen from third-party data that the iPhone may account for almost as much as 50% of overall mobile traffic. First, is that similar to what you're hearing or what you've seen? And se -- and I guess related to that, Eric, you said earlier, or you mentioned that you see the Apple relationship as stable. Are we to -- are you inferring from that that you think the upcoming renegotiations of that deal and potential of it moving to a competitor likely to move in your favor? And on the display side, can you us a sense of the percentage of search advertisers that are buying display you today and what is the major pushback from those that don't? Thanks.

ERIC SCHMIDT: So -- this is Eric. We're not going to speculate on the market share of Apple mobile products, that's for Apple to discuss with you. And as far as I can tell, our business structures with Apple are quite stable. I'm not going to speculate on any deals of any kind, rumored, true, not true, you name it, we're not going to talk about it. On the display question?

NIKESH ARORA: On the display side, there is a reasonable number of our search advertisers who also buy display; actually it depends on their campaign objects. If they're campaign objectives are (inaudible) response oriented they favor search, as well as certain parts of the display network, which will give them a higher conversion rate and click rate as it relates to advertising. If they're more brand focused they tend to (inaudible) display in their campaigns and in that category clearly they have many choices, including YouTube, as far as where they spend their premium brand dollars.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thank you. We'll take one or two more questions, so let's take two more questions, please.

OPERATOR: Thank you. We'll take our next question from Steve Weinstein from Pacific Crest.

STEVE WEINSTEIN, ANALYST, PACIFIC CREST: Actually, most of my questions have been asked so I'll leave time for someone else.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thank you, Steve. So one more question, maybe.

OPERATOR: And we'll go next to Marianne Wolk from Susquehanna Financial Group.

MARIANNE WOLK, ANALYST, SUSQUEHANNA FINANCIAL GROUP: Thanks very much. Given how attractive your making the new display products to advertisers and the big push with sales force, have you seen any of your advertisers shift budget from search into the new display offering? And then as a follow up, how do we think of what is going on in the content network, where are you in transforming that from basically contextual advertising to display?

ERIC SCHMIDT: This is Eric. On the question of shifting my experience with advertisers is they do not shift the ad and the reason is that the decisions that they make are sort of stand-alone. In other words, they will simply maximize the amount of search advertising they do to maximize their revenue and then the display decision is a decision that they make, which is both a revenue and also a strategic decision around their branding and so forth and that's growing as we can offer, if you will, the science of Google applied to the display business and that's our differentiator. We do it better than anybody else and that's why we continue to win all of those deals.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thank you. We're going to close -- we're just running out of time. We're going to close on this for now. I want to thank everyone for taking the time to listen to our call today. As you can tell we're very excited about moving the business forward in 2010. I want to take a moment to thank, also, all of the Googlers listening to this call for their hard work. 2009 was a rollercoaster year, very strong performance and really the achievement of everybody on the team, so for -- on behalf of the management team thank you to all. And thank you for listening and Jonathan and I will talk to you in half an hour. Cheers.

OPERATOR: And this concludes today's conference. We thank you for your participation.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
goog : Google Inc.
   IN
i8385 : Electronic Advertising | ividad : Video Advertising | i838 : Advertising | iadv : Advertising/Public Relations/Marketing | idirma : Direct Marketing | imark : Marketing | i8395464 : Internet Search Engines | iint : Internet/Online Services
   NS
c32 : Advertising | cmarkr : Market Research | ccrm : Customer Relationship Management | c11 : Plans/Strategy | c15 : Performance | csched : Announcements of News Conferences/Calls | ntra : Transcript | c151 : Earnings | c31 : Marketing | c315 : Conferences/Exhibitions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | cknowm : Knowledge Management | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020100204e61l002bi
  


 HD
 Q3  2009 Google Q&A Session - Final
   WC
7,639 words
   PD
15 October 2009
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©009 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
OPERATOR: Good day, everyone, and welcome to today's Google, Inc. conference call. Today's conference is being recorded. At this time, I would like to turn the conference over to Ms. Maria Shim. Please go ahead, Ma'am.

   TD
MARIA SHIM, IR, GOOGLE: Thank you. Good afternoon, everyone, and welcome to Google's third quarter 2009 earnings follow-up conference call. With us are Patrick Pichette, Chief Financial Officer and Jonathan Rosenberg, Senior Vice President of Product Management. After we cover a few housekeeping items, we'll start taking questions from the moderator page as we did on the last call. Also, this call is being webcast from our investor relations website located at investor.google.com. Please refer to our website for important information including our earnings press release and related slide deck. A replay of this call will also be available on our website in a few hours. Please note that we routinely post important information on our Investor Relations website located at investor.google.com and we encourage you to make use of that resource.

As a reminder, the purpose of this follow-up call is to give participants the opportunity to ask more detailed financial and product questions in an efficient and Reg FD compliant manner. Let me now quickly cover the Safe Harbor. Some of the statements we make today may be considered forward-looking. These statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause results to differ materially. Please note that these forward-looking statements reflect our opinion only as of the date of this presentation and we undertake no obligation to revise or publicly release the results of any revision to these forward-looking statements in light of new information or future events.

Please refer to our SEC filings including our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, as well as our earnings press release for a more detailed description of the risk factors that may affect our results. Copies can be obtained from the SEC or by visiting the Investor Relations section of our website. Also, please note that certain financial measures we use on this call such as operating profit and operating margin are expressed on a non-GAAP basis and have been adjusted to exclude charges relating to stock-based compensation. We have also adjusted our net cash provided by operating activities to remove capital expenditures, which we refer to as free cash flow. Our GAAP results and GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliations can be found in our earnings press release.

With that, we're going to take as many questions as we can accommodate, the remaining questions. I will start with a question from Mark Mahaney from Citi. How can a Company with $22 billion on the balance sheet in cash generate negative net interest income? How about cutting out the hedging program and buying back stock? That's a huge negative drag on your ROI. Patrick.

PATRICK PICHETTE, CFO, GOOGLE: So, Mark, thanks for the question. It's obvious that the consequence of the last year is pulling through on OI&E. Just to give you how we're managing it is, as soon as a couple quarters ago, we were all in kind of very conservative portfolio in order to protect the cash given the economic situation. Since then, we've actually revised our investment strategy and have agreed to an investment portfolio for the long term, and we're in the process of actually moving out of the very conservative position we're -- we were, and -- but there's an impact obviously because we're doing this on a gradual rollout basis.

We could not move -- we're not a money manager in the sense of moving money in and out of billions of dollars on a daily basis. That's not the business of Google, so our business is going to be to build a really good portfolio that ties back to the objectives that the committee and the Board set which is clearly much better than just staying on day to day sovereign backed securities. That's going to take a couple quarters to roll out. In the meantime we're on the operating income side, you're paying the price for it while we're migrating. We recognize that. But I would separate that. So we'll fix that. It's just going to take a couple quarters, and it's going to be fixed, then we will not be in position we're in today. I think that overall though, I'm really pleased the fact that we have protected our assets so well over the last year.

On the flip side is on the hedging side, I think that our hedging is an insurance policy, and if you look at the last 12 months, it's served us so incredibly well that we have -- there's a really good case to continue to invest the dollars we've put there, and as volatility comes down, the costs are also going to come down, so hopefully that will also benefit us. So the net of these two things I think that we have a very balanced strategy. I'm not saying -- I'd love to be exactly where our kind of target portfolio should be. But we have to do this in a disciplined manner so it's going to happen over a couple of quarters. From there we will be in a much more regular state. So from that perspective I think you're right that the third quarter kind of illustrates a transition period.

In terms of the last point of your question I think Eric mentioned it very clearly on the call. So that's how we think of OI&E and it's bound to change over the coming quarters. So that's for your -- thank you again for that question because it's an obvious question to ask.

MARIA SHIM: The next question is from Brian Pierce from UBS. Could you broadly discuss Google's strategy regarding search distribution deals? Do you think you have reached enough scale in terms of distribution to not overpay for these deals?

PATRICK PICHETTE: Let me talk about the first part, Brian. Thank you again for that question, because I think the first part of the question is the heart of the matter, which is, we look at every distribution deal we can, because it's good for the ecosystem, it's good for -- everybody makes money when you have a good distribution deal. And in that context all we want to make sure is, we have also discipline at making sure when there's a deal it's a win-win. And I wouldn't comment that in the past anybody overpaid for anything. There may be deals that in hind sight didn't make sense, and needed restructuring, but that doesn't mean that somebody overpaid. So in my mind, right now we have a really good strategy of making sure that every partner we can bring on board is a good partner, and we've just got to make sure that everybody wins at it. So I'm actually -- I'm quite pleased at the way that this is going and we hope to have even more partners in the future.

MARIA SHIM: Right. The next question is on the tax rate. The tax rate was 21%. How should we think about the tax rate going forward from Imran Khan?

PATRICK PICHETTE: So Imran, pardon me for this cough I have. Tax continues to be quite elusive for many of the analysts that have models because of all of the factors that are at play in taxes. FX is a big issue for our taxes and also the hedging program and how it flows through the tax effect. So, we're pleased to have 21%, but we really can't comment about the future because it's so dependent on these big variables that will affect us.

MARIA SHIM: Great. The next question is from Heath Terry from FBR. You mentioned that mobile search volumes grew 30% quarter over quarter. Can you give us a sense of monetization levels as mobile search query versus traditional search query and what kind of trends you're seeing in mobile search monetization?

JONATHAN ROSENBERG, SVP, PRODUCT MANAGEMENT, GOOGLE: Sure, Heath, this is Jonathan. We don't really comment specifically on the monetization statistics versus -- mobile versus desktop. I can certainly say from a search traffic perspective, search traffic volume is being very nicely driven on mobile by smartphone adoption. In some markets like in Japan, mobile searches are growing twice as fast as desktop searches over the last year or so. Eric mentioned that advertisers are seeing value in taking advantage of new Google ads products, and I think in the long run mobile is really going to emerge as one of those. I think right now what we see is that advertisers are typically just extending their campaigns into mobile and they're not doing as much customization with the campaigns on the mobile side because there's not as much volume there. But as they start seeing more volume they'll customize the campaigns better which will make the whole ad network work better.

I think the other thing we're seeing is the display seems to work very well on some of these devices and I think that's because of the level of engagement that a user has when they're staring at a cell phone and actually seeing a display ad. They tend to notice it more. Unlike when they're on a desktop machine, they're less likely to click away from it, so there's much more of a dynamic of forced engagement with display. So I think we're quite optimistic there and optimistic about AdSense on the high-end mobile devices.

MARIA SHIM: Thanks, Jonathan. The next question is from [Scott Devitt] of Morgan Stanley. How is the Company managing the growth of vertical search platforms, particularly in the retail category ETM is on, and should we expect more direct investment in vertical areas such as base product search checkout or a more horizontal approach? Jonathan?

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: Sure. I mean, the strategy certainly depends a lot on verticals. So product search and shopping is certainly one where we're particularly focused at the moment. We're continuing to improve the shopping vertical. We launched the find nearby store, which is the first local shopping feature recently. We're also trying to have a much more visual shopping one box if you type in chrome toaster, you will see the shopping one box and how that works. We're doing well with check-out as a payment platform there, and I think we're starting to get more focused on some of the other verticals. We've always done well in images. You're certainly aware of the work that we're doing in books. We've made more progress with health. We just launched the poison control one box. Real estate, finance, and travel are also other areas that we're going get quite focused on. Obviously we'll also continue to improve Google horizontally.

MARIA SHIM: Great. The next question is from Colin Gillis. Can you talk to the value of mobile clicks compared to desktop clicks and specific verticals where the value is much higher.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Did you cover that already in a previous question, Jonathan?

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: Well, I think that the dynamics are very different if you think about it. And it all relates to the probability that the user is actually going to consummate a transaction. So if you're searching locally for a restaurant or a coffee shop, then the value of a click is different from a desktop, and in some cases you don't get credit for the click because the user just walks in the store. And so I think we're -- we're still sorting some of that out.

MARIA SHIM: Okay, thanks. The next question is from Jeetil Patel, Deutsche Bank. It is quite commendable that Google is not micromanaging its business based on margin percentages. That said, should we think about the business from the standpoint of a cash flow dollar target, three, five, seven years out, or a sustainable cash flow growth rates?

PATRICK PICHETTE: I think that -- let me just give a bit more comments to, on what I said on the previous call, which is obviously we have the focus of the Company is on innovation, innovating products that actually serve users and benefit also our advertisers, and so from that perspective, the only point we wanted to make on the previous call that is worth restating is if there was an area where we needed to invest heavily in the short term, in order to really fuel growth in a specific area, we have the means to do it, and we -- Google wouldn't worry for a quarter, a couple of quarters if it really was the right strategic decision to say, what's going to be our percentage margin impact? We're here to build businesses. And in that sense you have a positive mind-set of instead of being stuck in margin land, which most companies live in, we can actually he be in the land of capturing opportunities. And for us that's so much more powerful.

Just for an illustration, rather than to make the case for one, if Android continues to have all of the runway that it's having right now you go from one, as Jonathan and Eric talked, one handset with one provider in one country, to the stat that we shared with you a bit earlier, with like 25 countries, 30 handsets, or maybe the reversal, but it's so much more -- if we had to kind of invest in those areas, and the question became, what's going to happen to the percentage margin, we'd never have that question. And that's why I think that we answer the question the way we did. I think that clearly Google is generating a healthy amount of cash, and we really are pleased by that. That gives us the strategic degrees of freedom to actually do the kind of things that Eric talked about a bit earlier. So that's really how we think about the business. It's about growth, it's about users, and it's about partners or advertisers. And that's how we think about the business.

MARIA SHIM: Thanks, Patrick. We're going to take the next question from James Mitchell of Goldman. Given the sharp sequential improvement in revenue did Google also sharply increase bonus accruals?

PATRICK PICHETTE: It's Patrick again. We had had to do some additional accrual simply because, James, I think that's a good catch. Many of you always ask us about these bonus accruals. In Q3 the performance was such that we had to do a bit of catch up on accruals, and that's what we meant when we talked in our comments that part of the quarter over quarter increase in expenses went to that as well. But it also went to a couple other items that I mentioned, like real estate and equipment. So, yes, absolutely, we had to have some accrual impact on it.

MARIA SHIM: Okay, great. The next question is from Ben Schachter of Broadpoint AmTech. When can we expect to see the CTA model more broadly deployed on Google.com?

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: This is Jonathan. I guess I'm going start again because I was speaking to myself on mute. So the conversion optimizer product is actually a CTA pricing model, and we're using it pretty broadly. I think we announced this quarter that it's managing over a billion in annual spend. And it's driving pretty good results for the advertisers. They use it to get more conversions and manage it to a lower CTA, we're running some experiments that I think some blogs may have picked up on, CTA-based pricing models for some product focused advertisement. These are generally running on the Google affiliate network on Google.com but I can't comment too much on how that is going until it launches a little bit more broadly.

MARIA SHIM: Great. The next question is from Wayne Cheng of Canaccord Adams. With a greater willingness to add more heads to the [staff and investment] Company could you comment on how aggressive that ramp may look like in 2010, and are there distinct areas you are looking to build talent i.e. display, mobile video, et cetera?

PATRICK PICHETTE: It's Patrick. The bottleneck becomes finding great talent that fit with the culture, and so we've ramped up our hiring practices and our pipelines. We hope -- so we won't give you specific numbers, but what I can tell you is we are, ramping up our pipelines to make sure that we have access, and we also think that in this kind of economic environment there's a great opportunity to actually get great talent as well, so we should capitalize on that as much as possible. Where we're going to invest, I think Eric made the point that he hopes to have a 50% kind of engineering and then 50% everything else, so it's just a rule of thumb that we use that because this is an engineering driven Company with innovation at its core, it's really important that, the bulk of the hiring we're looking for is in the engineering talent, and, they will be applied to all of our priority areas, and they, yes, include display mobile video but also search because search continues to be the next $1 billion business as well. And we have such a healthy agenda on that one as well. So that's how to think about it.

MARIA SHIM: The next question is from Heath Terry of FBR. What kind of advantage does the double click ad exchange offer over other add exchanges both from a competitive standpoint and from the standpoint of advertisers and publishers?

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: This is Jonathan again, and hopefully you can hear me. We're really focused more on our own customer needs, I think than on a specific competitive set per se. We think there's a huge opportunity, as I think we've told you about to create this open ecosystem where buyers and sellers can meet and transact. One of the exciting features is that we're actually able to do this and seamlessly integrate ad words, advertisers and AdSense publishers and all of the double click advertisers and publishers, which has just been part of the vision from the acquisition at the beginning. We're also trying to get very, very fast in real-time, so you actually have real-time bidding for buyers, real time yield management across all of the publisher channels and helping things clear properly. So we're very, very optimistic about how things are going there.

MARIA SHIM: Thanks, Jonathan. Perhaps the next question we can take from Sandeep Aggarwal of Collins Stewart. What were the trends for search spend by small and medium sized advertisers during the quarter?

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: This is Jonathan. I think in general we saw fewer macro economic effects with the small and medium sized advertisers from the beginning of the recession than we saw with large advertisers. Larger advertisers I think were faster to cut as the recession began and they were stronger and faster to rebound as things came back. So the main trend that I think we saw that characterized the last quarter was the larger advertisers coming back. Patrick, is that correct?

PATRICK PICHETTE: That's correct. I mean, that's why we emphasized it, because you will remember we discussed in Q1 and Q2 how the big advertisers pulled back out and the SMB, small and medium businesses were holding their own, and what really we saw in Q3 was the big advertisers, depending on the verticals again, depending on the geographies. Not everything is the same everywhere but for -- these are the ones that made quite a significant difference in the quarter.

MARIA SHIM: Okay, the next question is from Richard Fetyko of Merriman Curhan Ford. What are your intentions with the acquisition of On2?

PATRICK PICHETTE: Clearly this is--.

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: I mean, On2 is a publicly traded company, and the deal hasn't closed, so I don't think we can answer that specifically.

PATRICK PICHETTE: So in Q4. Wait for the deal to close, then ask us the question again.

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: Yes, we'll keep improving video quality and delivery.

MARIA SHIM: The next question is from Mark May of Needham. Please provide more color on your hiring plans, what functional areas and geographies will be most impacted.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Again, if you use the -- rather than to give you a specific answer, I think that if you -- if I was an analyst, kind of thinking through our own models, the next $1 billion of revenue doesn't require linear hiring in finance. So it really is about innovation, so I think that you can think through our organization and think through, if we really want to focus in the areas of engineering and the areas of sales, and support, then it tells you, really where we're going to focus our hiring. Then obviously there's a number of other areas that we'll continue to grow just because with more businesses you have the complexity of more businesses, so you do need the more lawyers, you need the more this more that. But the real bulk of it is really focused on the engineering community and the sales and support community that really drive these eco-systems. That's how we're thinking about it.

MARIA SHIM: Next question from Jeff Lindsey of Bernstein. Did you enter into a financial agreement with Verizon such as a rev sharing order to persuade them to put Android funds or did they elect -- elect to select Android without a financial incentive?

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: This is Jonathan, what we announced was a strategic agreement to deliver mobile devices to consumers based on the wonderful open source Android operating system we have which is going to be serviced and powered by Verizon's great nationwide network. We don't comment on specifics of the deal, but I think we certainly collectively have the same goals of getting some of these great Internet-connected smartphones into the hands of consumers.

MARIA SHIM: The next question is from Jim Friedland of Cowen & Company. How will you be accounting for average [growth] revenues on the ad exchange on a gross or net basis?

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: Jim, why don't we get back to you? I'm pretty sure we're doing it on a gross basis and then airing it out forwards but I -- we'll get back to you on it.

MARIA SHIM: Okay, great. Next question is, Imran Khan of JPMorgan. How much of your sequential growth was driven by ad quality improvement?

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: Again, we don't tend to break that out. We had a very good quarter from an ads quality perspective. I can tell you the significant things that we did, the biggest things probably in order, or close to order were the UI tweaks that we did to the search results page as we changed the maximum width, decreasing the spacing between the search results and the right hand side ads on wide screens. So with that bit of increase the click through rate on the right hand side adds and I think we did that sometime around the second week in August.

We also had some significant ad improvements like site links that basically allow additional links to categories and deeper advertisers of a site which you can see. If you run a query maybe on something like Chevy, you'll see the Silverado, the Malibu, you'll see more information that, which increased click through rates. We also did some more work on showing more good ads and expanded match but we don't give a specific sense of exactly the percentage that that resulted in. The more significant of the changes occurred in mid-August.

MARIA SHIM: Thanks, Jonathan. The next question is from Doug Anmuth at Barclays. As the dollar has weakened how are you thinking about your hedging program? Will you scale it down going forward? Was the declining quarter over quarter cost of hedging in Q3 due to less volatility or less exposure?

PATRICK PICHETTE: So Doug, thanks for your question. Let me answer it in two, three different ways. First is, clearly the -- there was less volatility in Q3 and we had taken, you will remember in Q2, because it was so much more volatile in Q1 and Q2, we've taken a lot more because of FAS 133 of these hedging costs through the P&L at that that time and therefore less volatile and in Q3, the combination of less volatility and already taken big write-downs created less expenses for the quarter itself. So that's one piece.

Going forward, if international revenue continues to grow, it will create more exposure for us, and in that sense will require more attention on the hedging side. So that's how to think about the second part of your question.

In the question of are we scaling it back, will we scale it back, clearly not in the sense that when you look at all the benefits we gained last year from this program, it is seen as insurance. It's managed as insurance, and therefore, there's no plan on scaling it. Having said that, there is a plan for review of it on a constant basis and formally annually as we build our plan for the Board and we go back. If there is areas where we can actually be smarter in terms of more deductibles, if you have less volatility or there's a science to this, right, and we are running an -- it's not a blind exercise, it's running an optimum curve where there's actually a specific point where we're trying to manage to and you try to minimize the cost, obviously for the maximum benefits and that's how we're thinking about it and that's what we'll manage going forward.

In general about the dollar weakening, I think there may be, for anybody who has a perception that the dollar is going to continue to weaken over the coming two, three, four years, if you made that case, then you'd say, well, you don't need your hedging program. That's the danger that every hedging program falls into which is people will say why are you investing this much this quarter into a hedging program that has no benefit because I know the dollar is only going to weaken and then the next thing you know we have a crisis like we had last year and then they say, hey where's your hedging program. So it is insurance, it's part of doing business in a business like ours, and I will refer you back to the very first two points I've made which is it's about finding an optimal point, making sure that we're finding the best economic value for these hedging programs and then it will be driven a lot by the market itself and the exposures we have. But we're putting a lot of science into this obviously.

MARIA SHIM: Okay, great, thank you. The next question is from Wayne Cheng of Canaccord Adams. Could you comment on the level of monetization change to YouTube and future thoughts on aligning those strategic goals for video to over the top distribution?

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: This is Jonathan. I guess I don't know exactly what "over the top distribution" means but I certainly know a lot about what's going on from a monetization perspective on YouTube, so let me try to focus on that. I think we've said before we're monetizing more than a billion video views every week, and that the monetizable views have increased more than three times in the last year. So the model there is making partners money and the success of content idea I think over the course of the last several months has been a big part of that. Usage and traffic continues to be very, very strong, and we're now doing a good job of monetizing across the four activities that Chad tends to refer to on the site. The home page ads are going great, we sold out the US YouTube home page over significant periods of time. We're making great progress on the search videos. If you look at the promoted videos on the right hand side, if you put in a query for something like soccer, the watch videos with the instream ads are going well and we're getting some interesting videos uploaded and better engagement with the user community if you take a look at the Quaker Oats contest that's running now on awakening your senses challenge, we're seeing a lot of interest there. So I think across the board things are going very, very well from a monetization perspective with YouTube.

MARIA SHIM: The next question is also on display from Jeetil. With the strong gains you're seeing in the display ad business can you discuss whether these gains are a function of share gains and online display ads or do these dollars represent new dollars being allocated to the Internet from offline?

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: This is Jonathan again, we certainly talked about how happy we are with the growth of the display business, we don't typically comment on our market share. I do think display has huge potential. I think we're -- our goal is to obviously help the overall pie grow, and I think we've succeeded because we're offering great performance to advertisers, and we're going to continue to grow revenue for our publishers. I think significant portions of dollars are coming off-line to on-line.

MARIA SHIM: The next question is from Jeff Lindsey. Is search on mobile devices cannibalistic to PC search or is it additive?

PATRICK PICHETTE: I think -- and, Jonathan, you'll jump in on this as well. I think that the most exciting thing about mobile is that even though there may be at the margin some stuff that's kind of overlapped it's essentially a new space. Because it's a new space, and there's been a lot of research done on this. There was one, for example, there was one research that I read not long ago where by the end of 2011 or the end of 2012 the research talks about smartphones surpassing the global PC in sales. So you end up in a world where it's an "and" world rather than an "or" world where you live very differently with your mobile device than the PC, but Jonathan, maybe you'd like to add comment on it?

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: Well, I think that the intuitive way to think about it is really that it's largely noncannibalistic. Because, think about it. Having search with you at all times basically opens up new opportunities no matter where you are at the time of day. So certainly a search that somebody was able to do because they had their mobile phone with them when they're away from their desktop is unlikely to be cannibalistic. The other thing that we can actually see in the data is the complementary aspect of the usage patterns across time of day and day of week. You see more port usage increase in the middle of the day at lunch. You see it increase after work, you see it increase over the weekend. So I think some of those dynamics suggest that it's largely not cannibalistic but we need to continue to gather data there to better understand it.

MARIA SHIM: The next question is from Ben Schachter. Will we see more video ads within the Google search pages? And how will the YouTube sales force work with the existing bidding system for Google.com?

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: Yes, you're definitely going to -- we're going to show more videos on Google.com, like we have that Plus Box now in some queries, typically the queries that you see it on today are limited to entertainment and movies. I think there's some good product demonstrations. I think type in "Astro Boy" I think that's an example that will generate one of the Plus Boxes. So I think we're pretty encouraged by the user and the advertiser responses there and we're going to keep investing in expanding that some more. I think that we want those formats ultimately to merge with the YouTube efforts from a sales and product perspective, which we're working to do.

MARIA SHIM: Another question on display from Sandeep Aggarwal, what are the top three hurdles Google needs to cross to be significant player in display advertising?

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: I think we sort of covered some of those already. I think that we talked on the first call -- you've got to make it easier for the advertisers to run their campaigns. We've got to get the demand for the publisher ad inventory. I think publishers are mostly interested in forecasting, they want to extract the maximum value from the inventory that they have, they want us to be able to use products like network builder much more easily to manage their inventory across all of their sites. On the other side, the advertisers basically want to use products like the Ad Planner product that we have so they can get much better at targeting relative to specific audiences. We launched demographic data in Ad Planner for, I think, 9 or 10 markets this last year -- this last quarter, adding the UK, France, Japan, Brazil, Australia and others. So it's just basically an effort around fixing what historically has been a very fractured and complex ad eco system and making it easier for the advertisers and the publishers to engage and thereby grow the pie for everyone.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Just the way the question is written, I think that it is important to understand that in many ways Google is a very significant player in display today. The question is, it is a model that's very fragmented, it's a model that's really -- has a ton of inefficiencies and many people would like to participate in the model where they -- if there was an exchange, if there was a place where a publisher could actually interact in an efficient basis from that way, and that perspective, I think it's really a story about fixing an industry that is really cumbersome and a lot of upside rather than a story of, are we catching up in some way, shape, or form.

MARIA SHIM: Thanks, Patrick. The next question is from Christa Quarles of Thomas Weisel. On the display side we hear from marketers and agencies that they are interested in products that are not IAB standard, i.e. screen takeovers, how important is this business for you and how does it complement what you're doing on the exchange?

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: Well, we're trying to build display products for all advertisers out there, both on the branded side and on the performance display side. So obviously we want to support creativity as part of our strategy and everything that we do -- we've been working on a bunch of tools focused on this within Double Click as well as within AdWords. The Double Click rich media studio basically being the main focus, so we're going to keep building and differentiating the products and trying to find ways to bring more accountability, showcase the ROI, and let the advertisers and publishers benefit from our innovations there. Exactly how that will manifest itself in terms of what may today be non-IAB standard formats I can't say.

MARIA SHIM: The next question is from Youssef Squali from Jefferies. How does the Google Exchange differ from other like Right Media and how does Google overcome the lack of tier 1 inventory?

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: I believe that the Exchange will have all types of inventory including tier 1 inventory, plain and simple.

MARIA SHIM: Next question is from Jim Friedland again. A follow-up to Jonathan's comment that display is compelling in the mobile environment. If mobile display is a material opportunity would the Company consider monetizing Google products such as G-Mail on Mobile with display ads?

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: Would we consider something? Sure, we'd consider something. I think that mail on Mobile may be a little bit more difficult to aggressively monetize. Again, because you're dealing with the small screen size there, and it's a little bit more difficult to find adjacent room that doesn't get in the way of a mail message. Certainly we're open to better ways of doing display on the mobile devices. It's not immediately obvious to me intuitively that G-Mail would be a more monetizable opportunity on mobile devices than it is on desktop devices. But we're certainly going to watch and see how mobile plays out. We're certainly -- there's some good examples there with popular apps, Urbanspoon, Shazam and others where I think we can get a sense of how some ad formats work and see whether or not there are opportunities there. I would be hesitant to really launch functionality that significantly adverses peoples ability to read their mail.

MARIA SHIM: The next question is from Christa Quarles. Other cost of revenue excluding depreciation was just 5.7% of gross revenues which is quite a bit lower from a year ago. Can you provide an explanation, is YouTube more efficient, are you guys serving costs lower?

PATRICK PICHETTE: The answer is yes, so we are more efficient. And even depreciation, if you look at depreciation quarter over quarter and year-over-year, essentially, when Eric talked a bit earlier about the fact that we really over the last year for an architectural point of view really did a number of changes to be much more efficient, we got the benefits of that and we get the benefits on the machine utilization but we also get it on the network side so overall you see it both in the OpEx side as well as the depreciation side. So it is -- it's part of the puzzle for that category. So I'm really happy that we're continuing to push hard in that area.

MARIA SHIM: Okay, then next question is from Mark Mahaney of Citi, have Sergey and Larry's roles within the Company changed materially over the past few years? Are they still as actively involved as in the past?

PATRICK PICHETTE: Jonathan--?

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: Maybe it's easier. They're still my boss -- I guess, really, the most significant change probably for you all is that they're not on the earnings call which they were in the past, but generally I think they're just as engaged and involved in the state of the business as they always have been. I think as a management team we're trying to do a better job of dividing and conquering across different products and different applications. So I think many of the folks on Eric's management team are more specifically focused on particular areas. Sergey, for example, is diving deep on the social side. Larry is very involved in Chrome OS and Android. So I think -- they continue to be very, very much engaged. I think that all of us on the management team are trying to get focused on specific efforts within the business because the businesses now are so large that we can't all focus on everything.

PATRICK PICHETTE: I think it's fair to say, Jonathan, that there are incredibly involved. I mean, in my mind, these two founders, we see them daily, we see them through the week. On the areas where they're focused they're incredibly focused, they're very present. I get -- Larry, to this day, right, continues to review every hire every week. There's a presence and an active presence from both of them that continues to be incredibly energizing because it's so great to work day to day with these people. So it's not a question of -- don't assume that because they're not on the earnings call that they're somewhere else and they're kind of half checked out. They're here. We're on e-mail with Larry. I couldn't believe I sent something to Larry the other day, and then an hour later this is on Sunday morning, then we're chatting away. Right? That's the level of involvement these two founders are. They're setting the direction of the Company, leading the Company, and then in the areas where they really have, they're forte, they dig deep on an everyday basis.

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: And they still review every job offer, right?

PATRICK PICHETTE: Yes, they still do. So that gives you a sense of perspective of their involvement. Thanks. Mark, thanks for that question. Because I think it is really -- people kind of always question that, but I think it's really at the heart of why Google is so special.

MARIA SHIM: Okay. Then we're going to take one more question from Jeff Lindsey. How far is the possibility -- how far off is the possibility of using paid first data just for targeting Double Click?

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: This is Jonathan. We can probably take another question because I'm not going to comment on future directions there. It's not something we're currently working on.

MARIA SHIM: The next question is from Imran Khan at JPMorgan, can you please give us some color on what kind of trends you're seeing in the UK? Can you help us with paid click and CPC trends in the UK?

PATRICK PICHETTE: We can talk geographically about the UK. Let me just go back to my notes here. So you saw a decline year-over-year, but you saw an increase also quarter over quarter for the UK, primarily due to FX, because of the big changes decline since last year, and then the same thing for quarter over quarter. I think that in general, the UK continues to perform pretty well. I mean, in the grand scheme of things, given the tough economic environment that they have seen in the last little while, you would have thought that they would have been a major pull-back, but the search continues to be there, and the key -- the key verticals that are driving UK continue to be doing relatively well. So I think that there are signs of increasing consumer confidence, and if you think of Q3 for the travel vertical or the retail vertical, I mean, they did kind of okay. Right? So it's not like UK is in the nose dive. UK is holding its own is the best way to portray it.

MARIA SHIM: Thanks Patrick. Thanks everyone for joining us today. If you have any follow ups, please let us know. Otherwise we will speak to you next time. Thank you.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thank you all.

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: Thank you.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
goog : Google Inc.
   IN
ividad : Video Advertising | i838 : Advertising | i8385 : Electronic Advertising | iadv : Advertising/Public Relations/Marketing | idirma : Direct Marketing | imark : Marketing | i8395464 : Internet Search Engines | iint : Internet/Online Services
   NS
gvedn : Education Department | c11 : Plans/Strategy | c32 : Advertising | c151 : Earnings | nitv : Interview | ntra : Transcript | c22 : New Products/Services | c15 : Performance | c31 : Marketing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | gvexe : Executive Branch | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | uk : United Kingdom | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020091029e5af001md
  


 HD
 Q3  2009 Google Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
10,550 words
   PD
15 October 2009
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©009 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
OPERATOR: Good day, and welcome everyone to the Google, Inc. conference call. This call is being recorded. At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Ms. Maria Shim, Director of Investor Relations. Please go ahead, ma'am.

MARIA SHIM, IR, GOOGLE: Good afternoon, everyone, and welcome to today's third quarter 2009 conference call. With us are Eric Schmidt, Chief Executive Officer; Patrick Pichette, Chief Financial Officer; Jonathan Rosenberg, Senior Vice President of Product Management; and Nikesh Arora, President, Global Sales Operations and Business Development.

   TD
Today, we are trying a new process on our earnings call. Eric, Patrick, Jonathan, and Nikesh will each provide us with thoughts on the quarter and then we will take Q&A from Google Moderator. This is our first time using Google Moderator to respond to questions from the investment community, so let me briefly explain the process. Please submit your questions via the moderator page that we have sent out and the audience will vote on the most relevant questions. We will only be taking questions that are relevant to today's earnings results and Google's long-term strategy. I will read the question and the name of the person who submitted the question and then have Eric, Patrick, Jonathan, or Nikesh answer.

This call is being webcast from our Investor Relations website located at investor.google.com. Please refer to our website for important information, including our earnings press release issued a few minutes ago, along with slides that accompany today's prepared remarks. A replay of this call will also be available on our website in a few hours. Please note that we routinely post important information on our Investor Relations website located at investor.google.com and we encourage you to make use of that resource. As a reminder, we're holding two calls today. On this call, we will discuss our strategic overview and Q&A with the usual format, followed by a second call which is effectively an extended Q&A session with Jonathan and Patrick, giving the opportunity for participants to ask more detailed financial [and product] questions in an efficient and Reg FD compliant manner. The second call will begin at 3:00 PM Pacific time and will also be webcast from our Investor Relations website.

Now, let me quickly cover the Safe Harbor. Some of the statements we make today may be considered forward-looking, including statements regarding investments in our long-term growth and innovation, expected performance of our business, and our expected level of capital expenditures. These statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially. Please note that these forward-looking statements reflect our opinions only as of the date of this presentation and we undertake no obligation to revise or publicly release the results of any revision to these forward-looking statements in light of new information or future events. Please refer to our SEC filings, including our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, as well as our earnings press release for a more detailed description of the risk factors that may affect our results. Copies can be obtained from the SEC or by visiting the Investor Relations section of our website.

Also, please note that certain financial measures we use on this call, such as operating profit and operating margin, are expressed in a non-GAAP basis and have been adjusted to exclude charges relating to stock-based compensation. We have also adjusted our net cash provided by operating activities to remove capital expenditures, which we refer to as free cash flow. Our GAAP results and GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliation can be found in our earnings press release. With that, I will now turn the call over to Eric.

ERIC SCHMIDT, CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD & CEO, GOOGLE: Thank you, thank you very much, Maria. Good afternoon to all of you and welcome to our third quarter earnings call.

Let's start by summarizing where we are. While there's obviously a lot of uncertainty about the pace of economic recovery, we believe the worst of the recession is behind us, and we're seeing lots of signs of that in all of the industries that we pay attention to. So we're very optimistic now about the future, and we now have the business confidence to invest heavily in the next phase of innovation, helping to invent the future as we see it.

Our performance in the quarter was a strong, was a strong quarter, 7% year-over-year revenue growth. We performed well across all of the financial metrics that we monitor. So it's all good news from our perspective, at least in looking at the quarter. And we're going to continue to invest in long-term growth. We tested our management team and I want to say that I'm very, very proud of the management team getting us through what could have been a very significant business event for Google, and we've proven the worth of this team -- tight control over costs, combined with continued innovation in search and ads, Chrome, Android, mobile, these huge opportunities ahead of us. The resources and expertise to invest heavily in long-term growth for the benefit of users, customers, and shareholders.

So how are we investing? Well, we're going to invest in people -- we're already stepping up our hiring. And also in innovation -- consistent with our 70/20/10 principles for technological precondition for growth, if you will, is this investment in innovation. The 70%, everybody here I think on the call knows that that's our core business. We want to really get to the perfect search engine. We made about 120 search quality improvements in the third quarter, with more of course coming this quarter and we hope every quarter, and we're working to create much better ads. It's important to remember that many of our advertisers would like to find more ways to spend money with Google if our products would allow them to do that, and we want to make that possible and really serve their needs.

And that 20% out of the 70/20/10, we're stepping up our investment in up and coming businesses. Mobile -- high growth business for us already, 30% quarter over quarter growth in mobile searches in the third quarter. Android, as you know, has come a long way in a year from one device with one carrier in one country to now 12 devices in 26 countries with 32 carriers, with much more coming. In the display and YouTube area, both of which of course are doing well, we have a great base. We have one million publishers choosing to use the AdSense product, and of course we're at many many AdWords advertisers. But we've now added DoubleClick to the mix, integrated with Google with our exchange and all of the things DoubleClick can now offer. So you have a great business that should scale pretty rapidly. And again, even with our enterprise business, which we've been working hard on for some time, not only is our business accelerating, but I actually personally spoke to a number of our customers, for example, Motorola, Genentech, JohnsonDiversity gave feedback very strong -- they need more of this product and they need us to address the product shortcomings, and I think the products will do very, very well.

In the 10%, promising areas where we think there's a real opportunity to innovate, Google inspired development -- that's why we're basically pushing our rate of hiring, partnerships with wireless and developers, but also we're going to focus more on strategic deals and acquisitions as we have discussed publicly. And we're open for business, making strategic acquisitions, both large and small.

So to put it together, and I think hand it over to Patrick for his analysis of the financials, I'll tell you that we're very, very happy with Q3. The worst of the recession would clearly be behind us, and because of what we have seen, we now have the confidence to be optimistic about our future and we're going to invest as a result. And that I think is ultimately good for the long-term of Google. Patrick?

PATRICK PICHETTE, CFO, GOOGLE: Thank you, Eric, and good afternoon, everyone. So I'll go through the results quickly and then I'll turn it over to Nikesh and Jonathan for a bit more detail on our performance. So as Eric said, at a high level, we're very pleased with our Q3 results. Gross revenue grew 7% year-over-year to $5.9 billion and our business was strong across the board. Google.com, for example, the revenue was up 8% year-over-year to $4 billion, contributing a significant portion of our year-over-year growth. The traffic growth continues to be healthy and we saw stabilization or improvement in most of our major markets. It's actually worth noting that Q3 also benefited from a number of ads quality launches.

In AdSense, we saw an increase up year-over-year 7% to $1.8 billion, driven primarily by growth in our AdSense for content and our display initiatives. Our global aggregate paid click growth remained very healthy, up 14% year-over-year and 4% quarter over quarter. Our aggregate cost per click growth was down 6% year-over-year, but up 5% quarter over quarter, with FX playing quite a factor in both the year-over-year and quarter over quarter comparisons. So FX had a negative impact on the year-over-year for CPC growth, but a positive one quarter over quarter due to the weakening of the US dollar during the quarter. Remember, too, that this is an aggregate number which includes diverse geographic markets, some of which may have lower CPCs, and also includes both Google and AdSense properties.

Turning to our geographic performance, revenue from the US was up 4% year-over-year to $2.8 billion. International revenue accounted for 53% of our total revenue, or $3.1 billion, with $39 million benefits of hedging programs for this quarter. The UK was down 1% year-over-year to $765 million, negatively impacted by FX, as well as an ongoing macroeconomic weakness, but this partially offset by revenues from our hedging program. It's worth noting that using a fixed year-over-year exchange rate, our total revenue would have been roughly $300 million higher.

Let me now turn to expenses. Traffic acquisition costs were $1.6 billion, or 27% of total advertising revenue. Our other costs of revenue was $667 million. And finally, all other operating expenses totaled $1.6 billion, including approximately $303 million for our stock-based compensation. On a year-over-year basis, our OpEx excluding SBC, and other costs of sales was lower by $14 million and up $81 million quarter over quarter. The increase quarter over quarter was primarily due to increases in payroll, equipment, and facilities-related expenses. So as a result of all this, our non-GAAP operating profit, which excludes stock-based compensation, increased to $2.4 billion in Q3, resulting in a non-GAAP operating margin of 40.2%. Headcount was slightly down, ending the quarter with approximately 20,000 full-time employees. So as Eric said, we believe the worst of the recession is behind us, and we feel confident that investing in our innovation agenda in a targeted and disciplined way, and that includes accelerating hiring across the organization, particularly in engineering and sales.

Let me now turn to cash management. In other income and expense, we had a net expense of $7 million for Q3. For more details on this, please refer to the slides that are accompanying this call in our Investor Relations website. Our effective tax rate for the quarter was 21%, and let me remind you that any changes to the mix of earnings between domestic and international subsidiaries, as well as the effect on our earnings from various hedging activities and the related hedged items, obviously have an effect on our tax rate.

So let's complete the portrait now. Operating cash flow, very strong at $2.7 billion. CapEx for the quarter was $186 million, again, primarily related to our data center operations. And we'll continue to make significant CapEx investments, although they are lumpy. Free cash flow, very strong at $2.5 billion.

So in summary, very pleased with the strong quarter in Q3 across revenue, margins, and cash flow. We're managing the company to best position ourselves for long-term growth and accelerating our pace of innovation. We're disciplined, but fully investing in big long-term opportunities, whether it be in search, display, mobile, or apps. With that, I'll turn it over to Nikesh to cover with more color commentary. Nikesh?

NIKESH ARORA, PRESIDENT, GLOBAL SALES OPERATIONS AND BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT, GOOGLE: Thank you, Patrick. I just wanted to spend a few minutes going over our performance across our businesses and our markets. Firstly, our core business continues to drive our growth. If you look at our performance across our four global regions, in the Americas, the US trend was across the board, but especially amongst our larger advertisers as they have come back into the market in the third quarter. We've had a major push in the US to further streamline our sales processes and go out and meet most of our large advertising CMOs. In addition to the large advertisers, Brazil was a good performer and a true standout in Latin America with strong revenue growth. If you look at our region, which covers northern and central Europe, we began to see stabilization across the board as the economy started to emerge from the downturn. The UK has showed strength relative to the last quarter. If you look at the region that includes southern and eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa, we also saw solid performance from that region. Particularly Spain has shown strong signs of revival fueled by the travel, retail, and automotive verticals. Our fourth region, Asia-Pacific and Japan, we continue to build and strengthen our teams. China was a strong performer as an emerging market and Japan has seen some benefits from a reorg of the sales team, mobile growth, and a more favorable economic climate.

If you look at our partnerships over the last quarter, we've had a strong level of AdSense renewals and new agreements which include British Telecom, Discovery, [Destiny], and eBay, with whom we signed a global AdSense deal. This deal with eBay renews our longstanding partnership with them on their non-US properties, as well as their classifieds and comparison shopping sites. In addition, it also extends our partnerships for the first time to eBay.com.

If I can turn over to our display business, as Eric mentioned earlier, we made a lot of progress across all three parts of our display business, which has shown strong results. Firstly, in our owner-operated properties, we are pleased with our progress. On YouTube, we have added new partners and advertisers and further improved monetization. Today, we can say that 90% of the top 50 [AdWords] advertisers have run campaigns with successful results on YouTube. Hewlett-Packard used YouTube homepage [roadblocks], promoted videos, partner watch, as well as content network and search for its back-to-school campaign. It has had over 2.7 million channel views in 170 countries with over 6,600 subscribers and 4,000 submissions. Recently Palm used the YouTube home page and its YouTube channels, as well as the [Continent] Network in a recent campaign. McDonald's also ran a YouTube video ad on the homepage to promote its McCafe product.

On the partnership side with YouTube, we signed some important partnerships with Time Warner and Warner Music during our third quarter. We now have deals with all four major record labels and publishers, along with many independent labels, bringing more premium content to the site. This morning, we announced that we partnered with Channel 4 in the UK to bring full length catch-up TV to YouTube. Generally we are developing successful expertise in selling home pages and now we are in the process of [releasing preowned] inventory, which is an area we expect to further drive monetization. If you look at the second part of our display business, which is our content network, we continue to show healthy growth. We continue to focus on publisher acquisition and improving monetization of our network. Specifically, we're attracting key advertisers with both direct response and branding campaigns. As Eric mentioned, we have now over one million publishers on our AdSense network.

The third part of our display business, which is the beyond our network we are very excited to announce the new DoubleClick Ad Exchange this quarter. The Ad Exchange is a key part in how we can open the display ecosystem. Its introduction is already being received very positively by both ad network and publishers, with contractual commitments from major partners and migrations from the original DoubleClick Ad Exchange already near completed in several countries. Over half of the largest TV -- of the largest 25 networks in the US are already using the new Ad Exchange. It also will provide substantial benefits by giving our AdWords advertisers access to more high quality inventory, enabling third parties to advertise on our AdSense publisher sites.

In our enterprise business, we continue to push forward. We've had some big customer wins in the last quarter, including Rentokil, which has 35,000 users, [Redress Echo] 17,000 users, and [Conoco] with 7,000 users. We're also seeing lots of traction among small and medium-size businesses, which continue to increase at a fast pace.

Lastly, on a personal note, I want to say I'm very pleased with the performance of our sales team this quarter, because this quarter we have transitioned many of our senior leaders, but the team has maintained its focus on going out there and driving sales, and we continue to emerge -- continue to invest in our emerging businesses and emerging markets and we hope to continue to do that in line with Patrick and Eric's comments. With that, I'm going to hand it over to Jonathan for product insights for the quarter.

JONATHAN ROSENBERG, SVP, PRODUCT MANAGEMENT, GOOGLE: Okay. Well, thanks, Nikesh. So Eric mentioned that we're investing in long-term growth. And you'll remember, of course, that we said we would take the long-term focus in our founder's letter ,and I think recently we've really been pushing a number of investments and big bets that are consistent with that long-run principle. What I want to do is quickly walk you through a few of those examples.

One of the biggest 2009 investments is the new AdWords front end, and we transitioned pretty much all of our advertisers to the new user interface this quarter, and it was really the biggest overhaul to AdWords which we've ever done. And the advertisers now have lots of new reports, they are running much, much more efficient campaigns, and we have a new infrastructure that will make it much easier for us to roll out new features moving forward.

We're also making a big investment push in developing new ad formats, and we're beta testing a new ad offering, which we call Local Listing ad. And with that, you basically sign up with just a simple one-page form. You don't have to deal with keywords, don't have to deal with bids to manage. There's a simple flat monthly rate. And if you don't have a web page, the ad can link to your place page, and that's a free page that we generate and you can edit that has all sorts of information about your business. And we've launched about 50 million of these place pages. And the phone numbers on the ads go through Google voice, so you can actually track the calls you get and you know which ones were generated by your Google ad. The call actually comes in and it literally says, this call brought to you by Google. And the trial is right now just in San Francisco and San Diego. But if you enter Coffee San Francisco, you can actually see one of the ads.

Last week we also launched a new maps data set and we're now using that in the US and Mexico. This was a huge investment, but it's going to give us a lot more flexibility to create new types of maps. If you think about it, if you're a tourist, you probably want a different kind of a map than if you're a local. And now we're going to be able to have the base to build in features like that.

I also sometimes hear that it's not always obvious how some of our big product investments tie together. If you look here at what we're doing with maps and local, you'll see that we have the ads infrastructure, geographical data, Google voice, and place pages, and those things are now all working together to create a very compelling solution for small local businesses. So everything is now really finally in place for local businesses to easily connect with customers online.

And we're also investing a lot in user experience and the whole underlying infrastructure that's needed to support it. We see users today come to us with much, much harder queries than they used to, so we're adding more ways for them to work with the results and to get what they need. We launched a bunch of new features in search options. That's the little show options toggle switch, which you'll see it in the blue bar above your search results. Now you can just opt to look at the results from, say, the past hour or whatever time period you want. So if you're researching an upcoming purchase, like you want to buy a camera or something, we have a fewer shopping sites feature and you can filter out many of the commercial sites if you want to look at more reviews. But then later you can opt to see more shopping sites, which shows you the more commercial sites, along with their prices.

Eric and Nikesh mentioned the display business. That's going very well. But we think it's still a highly inefficient industry. Something like 25% of all the publishers' ad space still goes unsold, so we've launched the new DoubleClick Ad Exchange. And this was a big investment and project and a key milestone in the culmination of the DoubleClick acquisition. Our goal there is basically to increase the size of the pie for everyone, advertisers, agencies, ad networks, and publishers.

And finally, we're placing some big, big bets on making the web better. We shipped the new release of Chrome that's more than double the speed of our first launch a year ago. And we also launched Chrome Frame, which is an Open Source plug-in for IE that dramatically speeds up JavaScript on the sites that invoke it. So speed matters, and we're going to keep investing in big projects that make the web faster. So you're probably getting restless by now, so I'll take it back to the questions.

ERIC SCHMIDT: So we'll turn it over to Maria and the operator to actually go through the questions that we have online.

MARIA SHIM: Okay.

ERIC SCHMIDT: Maria, I'll leave it with you to direct the questions.

MARIA SHIM: Okay. We'll take the first question from Mark May at Needham & Company. What are your goals with the recently relaunched DoubleClick Ad Exchange? And do you think this offering could be a material contributor to Google's overall business revenues over the next one to three years?

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: This is Jonathan. I guess I can start and maybe Nikesh can help me. We think, as I mentioned in my prepared remarks, that we're making great progress with fixing the whole fractured and very complex ad ecosystem. What we still need to do is we've got to make it much easier for the advertisers to run their display campaigns across a much broader range of websites. We've got to create demand for the publishers' ad inventory, much of which I mentioned on the call goes unsold. We've got to open up this whole ecosystem, and really the goal is to grow the pie for all of the players. So as we get better tools for the publishers to improve the forecasting and extract the value of the available inventory that they have, and as we make it easier for the advertisers to plan and better target their desired audiences, we think we'll make significant progress. Maybe I'll let Nikesh talk about the customer responses and the revenue opportunities.

NIKESH ARORA: I think Jonathan, you said most of what we wanted to say. But as I mentioned, over half of the largest 25 ad networks from the US are already using the new Ad Exchange, which is a good thing, in addition to which we're seeing a lot of interest from other networks in the market. So the Ad Exchange is an important element of the display ecosystem and exchanges are going to be relevant going forward.

MARIA SHIM: Okay. Next question, which is from Imran Khan of JPMorgan, can you please help us understand what drove the 6% decline in cost per click? I'm trying to better understand the impact of FX versus mix shift versus impact of the economy.

PATRICK PICHETTE: So we don't provide all of the details, but it's very clear that FX had an impact on these numbers. If -- there's two things that we have to take into consideration. Take a step back. Paid click continued to be quite healthy with 14% and 4% both year-over-year and quarter over quarter, so we're very pleased about that. On the CPC growth, I mean if you go back year-over-year -- so relative to Q3 of 2008, the Euro actually had an 8% difference. The pound, 15% difference. And the Canadian dollar, to take another one, close to 8% difference. These numbers are material. They will drive quite a bit of impact in the financial. So if you reverse engineer all these numbers, that will give you a good sense of it. Second is don't forget that we have quite a good healthy growth in international markets, which are in many cases lower CPC, but they add dollars. So we're not worried about lower CPCs, and when you get dollars and more performance. So this would be at the highest level. Jonathan, any additional comments on the issue?

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: I think Patrick nailed the primary issue in FX. I think the secondary issue -- we've talked about this on previous calls -- is that more of the clicks are coming from countries with lower CPCs, so we always want to caution you about not reading aggregate CPC metrics as a direct reflection in price changes.

MARIA SHIM: The next question -- we actually received two questions on acquisitions from Brian [Pitts] of UBS and Jeff Lindsay from Sanford Bernstein. And it was about Eric's comments on Google looking to acquire again, whether there were some sense of strategic holes in the business, and if we are going to be doing a large transformative acquisition or will our policy still be to make small technology-oriented acquisitions? Eric?

ERIC SCHMIDT: So for both Brian and Jeff, thank you. The way we think about acquisitions is we have historically done an acquisition perhaps one a month or so. And those are typically small and they are typically complete in offering. They are typically technology-intensive. They are not very expensive in the scheme of things, and they bring some specific technology. So in search, there's a number of companies that we've looked at, again, small people -- small companies that have invented some very interesting way of doing, for example, a kind of vertical search or a kind of analysis of how search should perform. In the area of advertising, we've looked at, for example, in display category, the number of small companies that have figured out better ways of sorting and working on display ads. There obviously, as we build out our enterprise business, small companies that, again, have pieces of the offering in the area of, for example, Chrome, and Chrome OS, there are parts of that platform that are most efficiently built by adding features that are already being done by small companies, obviously an Android simile and so forth.

So there's no particular rhyme or reason or prioritization, aside from the 70/20/10 that I already talked about. It's very much a function of the specific individuals. We're certainly looking for larger businesses to buy, but in those cases there would have to be some significant strategic rationale, some accelerant that it would provide for revenue, some major, major user base that we do not currently have access to. And so they are going to be quite infrequent. So if you think about it, our two largest have been DoubleClick and YouTube, both of which look as though they are going to be incredibly successful. But the integration costs, the acquisition cost itself was quite significant. So those will be relatively rare, and if I were to estimate the frequency, it's hard to say, but it's certainly not monthly. Maybe every year or two. But certainly not every month.

MARIA SHIM: Great, thank you, Eric. The next question is from James Mitchell of Goldman Sachs. Have recent Gmail outages resulted from rapid user growth, underinvestment in server capacity, or other factors? Jonathan?

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: Sure, James. So I guess it's a little unclear which -- what outage you're referring to. There was a high profile outage I believe on September 1 to the web interface and it lasted about 100 minutes, and clearly that's a very big deal to us. We understand how much users depend on Gmail, and we've certainly learned a lot from it and we've taken steps to make sure that it doesn't happen again. We're also very focused on improving recovery time if an outage does occur. That information is posted on our, on the blog, and I think the blog response that we posted actually covers in detail what happened. Generally it related to underestimating the headroom from a machine perspective during some routine maintenance that we did that led to a cascading failure. But it wasn't a function of any underinvestment in server capacity or anything like that.

MARIA SHIM: Okay. So the next question is on CapEx from Christa Quarles of Thomas Weisel Partners. CapEx is down 70% year to date. Help us understand what was going on before and what is going on now. Previously, were you overspending during the search [cold war]? Are you underspending now?

PATRICK PICHETTE: So I'll take this question, and I'll make a reference to the previous question. Christa, thanks for your question. It's very relevant. Let me make an overall note that you remember in the previous quarter, I had warned everyone if you just kind of take a ruler and go down, we would hit kind of zero CapEx sometime in mid-September and obviously that's not happened. We're investing, and we're investing heavily. It just happens that CapEx is lumpy. Referring back to the Gmail, we have all the capacity we need for all of the infrastructure. We prefund -- we have capacity ahead of what we think our needs are going to be. We've been very fortunate in the last few quarters. A combination of very performant assets and really good utilization, as well as in a few cases like I've talked about -- Scandinavia -- a few delays create these timing issues. But clearly we are focused on investment, and I mean maybe Eric, you can turn it back -- we talked about investment at the front end of the call and make the bridge with it.

ERIC SCHMIDT: I would like us to be spending more in this area, because I think that the opportunity that it creates -- that capital spending creates a very significant platform for future products, future growth. Part of the reason that you have seen over the last year or two a decrease in capital has been we've been able to do some very, very significant efficiency improvements that are basically software. The hardware that we had deployed was not as highly utilized, technically not as busy. So we're able to increase that and that goes right to the bottom line in terms of capital spending. And that was a big project engineering. We've also benefited from the Moore's law related efficiency improvements with the multicore architectures. And what's happening, of course, is that the chips are now going four core, eight core, and that all of a sudden means we need fewer CPUs to get the same level of performance. And most of that is related to the data -- data center, data operations, and so forth. So it's highly dependent upon how many of that we need to deploy. And so it was more a transition from one architecture to another and efficiency improvements than a change in strategic direction.

MARIA SHIM: Thanks, Eric. The next question is from Ross Sandler of RBC. Are you seeing higher overall conversion rates currently versus in the first half of the year, and can you quantify the improvement? Nikesh?

NIKESH ARORA: Yes. We don't comment on precise metrics and conversion rates. I think the best way to think about it is to think about it both from a consumer perspective and advertiser perspective. In light of the continuing economic situation and still high unemployment, consumers appear to be acting rationally. If you look at it, when the price is right, they go out and buy -- Cash for Clunkers or taking advantage of real estate incentives, when if necessary they will buy. When you look at back-to-school purchases, they follow the normal quarterly pattern. I think on the consumer side, we're seeing rational behavior. On the advertiser side, as I mentioned earlier, the big advertisers are ramping up again, while smaller advertisers have been slower to jump back in. They were slower to leave. So from an overall perspective, we believe conversion rates are holding up.

MARIA SHIM: Great, thank you. So the next question is from Sandeep Aggarwal of Collins Stewart. Can you give us an update on Android adoption versus other SmartPhone choices? Also, how is the work on Google Chrome OS going?

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: Sure. This is Jonathan. I can start with that. Eric mentioned on the prepared remarks probably the most obvious thing is just look at the scope of growth with devices, partners, carriers -- one device, one carrier, one country, to 12 devices, 26 countries, 32 carriers in less than a year. The market is also very robust with over 10,000 applications available, which is something that we focus on very carefully. So basically the strategy of delivering a modern open source OS and enabling an ecosystem of developers and carriers seems to be paying off and the strategy is working. Chrome OS is going very well. We think we're going to deliver on the goals of basically speed, simplicity, and security so that computers just work and start up in a matter of seconds. And I think we'll probably have more updates on that later in the year looking out.

ERIC SCHMIDT: Let me just add, this is Eric, and thank you for the question. Android adoption is literally about to explode. You have all the necessary conditions. You have the vendors. You have the distribution and so forth. And so -- and this of course is a very, very critical period with all of the, all of everything being delivered and new announcements as well.

From the standpoint of Chrome OS, the internal demos that we've seen indicate that it is a materially significant achievement in platform computing. It is quite different from the current incumbents in a whole bunch of ways -- speed, efficiency, and so forth. It's not quite done and we hope to get a version out later this year for people to start developing. As you know, it's an open source initiative. And so we appear to be roughly on time with the announcements we made a few months ago about Chrome OS. Now obviously the anticipation just increases.

MARIA SHIM: Okay. We'll take the next question from Jeff Lindsey of Sanford Bernstein. What are the plans for Google's large cash balances? Are stock buybacks being considered at any point?

ERIC SCHMIDT: Patrick and I were talking about who should answer this question. Thank you, Jeff, for asking about this. We've been doing very well on the cash generation front throughout this whole year, which is a critical year. We've been able to be very strongly cash flow positive and we hope that will continue for a long time. We love cash. The issue with stock buybacks is historically, they have often not achieved the objectives that they set out. So there's certainly none under consideration right now and I wouldn't expect any time soon. I wouldn't rule one out, but I would not put it on your list of things to anticipate any time soon. From our perspective, the cash gives us a lot of operating and strategic flexibility over the very long-term, and so we're very happy to have it sit in our bank account and earn a modest interest rate.

MARIA SHIM: Great. The next question is from Justin Post of BAS-ML. What verticals, i.e. autos, travel, finance, and commerce -- had most year-over-year spending improvement in Q3 versus Q2? I'll turn it over to Nikesh.

NIKESH ARORA: Justin, thank you very much for the question. If you look at our verticals across the board, auto was by far the most well performing verticals in the US for the third quarter. This is primarily due to the government's Cash for Clunkers program. If you look beyond the Clunkers program, the US auto vertical is still poised for growth because of the age of the US fleet and auto dollars sort of shift online. UK also has recovered well on a year on year basis as far as auto is concerned.

On travel, we've seen queries a bit later than usual, illustrating consumer caution. Retail we're seeing a back-to-school effect that's doing well. And finance continues to be a tough vertical given the comps from last years are tough, because last year we were beginning to get into the financial crisis, so were seeing lots of queries. And all of those haven't come back as well this year as you would expect or want them to. But having said that, there are pockets in finance which are still robust like health insurance or insurance overall, which is primarily positive as a subvertical.

MARIA SHIM: Great. Thank you very much. Next, we're going to take two questions from YouTube. The first is from Mark Mahaney of Citi. What is the update on the [past] profitability? And the second question is from Ben Schachter of Broadpoint AmTech. Can you quantify YouTube revenues in any way? Under what circumstances might you break out YouTube into related revenues for us in the future?

PATRICK PICHETTE: So I'll answer the front end of this question and then turn it over to Nikesh for more color commentary. But in general, as Nikesh talked about at the front end, we're really pleased about YouTube's performance. It is going very well. It is completely in line with what we discussed at the last quarter's results, which is YouTube is on its path to profitability in the not too distant future. I'll let Nikesh talk about all of the great partnerships that are so critical to the success and we are having a terrific quarter on this. But just to give you one sound bite, we're monetizing more than 1 billion videos views every week on YouTube. So if you think of that, it just gives you a sense of perspective of the success that's going on, but I'll let Nikesh give you more detail on it.

NIKESH ARORA: If you look at YouTube, we've primarily been able to sell pretty much home page ads across the world on YouTube to the extent that 90% of our US home page video YouTube inventory was sold out in third quarter, which is a tremendous improvement from prior quarters. And we continue to drive forward on this ad format around the world. As I mentioned also, we are beginning to unleash the [presale] inventory which is on YouTube, making it available for our sales forces to go out and sell. So I think there are various monetization opportunities as it relates to YouTube from the ad format side.

On the inventory side, as I said, we have been able to close deals that pretty much everybody in the music label business, as I mentioned, in addition to which we also announced Channel 4 this morning. So we are creating more and more inventory so that we can create more inventory for our sales forces to go out and sell these new ad formats for. Like Patrick, we are pleased with our ability to monetize YouTube so far and we like the trend.

MARIA SHIM: Great, thank you. We'll take the next question from Jason Helfstein of Oppenheimer. Do you think the company can [connect] a long-term revenue shift and still keep margins flat? Or should we assume the company's (inaudible) and to create new growth areas?

PATRICK PICHETTE: Wow, this is -- I think we have great products. Because we have great products and technologies, we're winning in the market. I think that Eric will have, I suggest Eric also comment on it. But, look, we are looking at each product that we are shipping to be a successful product, and if there's an investment phase for some of these products, and there is just a simple investment phase. And we're not managing the business for a percent margin at all. We're managing the business for successful products that contribute over time. So Eric, more color commentary.

ERIC SCHMIDT: No, it's an interesting question. Because as you know, margins are actually going the other way from the questioner's implication and we've been able to build a great business. We do not look at margins on a percentage basis at all and we also are happy to have businesses that have differential margins as long as they are successful and provide strategic value. So one way to think about it is we do not have a margin target. We have a revenue growth target and expense target and a net cash flow target, and they add up to whatever the outcome margin is. So we do not manage along those lines. From our perspective, the mission of the company is to go out there and serve and also in the context, build businesses that are growing and are profitable. And we'll accept whatever their native margin structures are. And if their margins improve, that's great. If they get worse, that's okay, too, as long as we're winning in the marketplace.

MARIA SHIM: Okay, great. Thank you. The next question is from Ross Sandler of RBC. International revenues ex FX and ex hedging increased 19% year-over-year into 3Q and acceleration from 17% into Q2, if our math is correct. Can you provide color on which regions are driving the acceleration?

NIKESH ARORA: Thank you, Ross. Ross, as I mentioned in my prepared remarks, we are seeing strength across various markets around the world. As far as it relates to the Americas, Brazil has been a strong performer. We didn't see much of a slowdown in our Asia-Pacific and Japan regions, and therefore China has done well and other parts of Asia-Pacific. We continue to see strength in Northern Europe -- France and Germany have been stable. Spain is seeing a revival. As far as Southern Europe is concerned -- as Spain is seeing a revival -- and we see most of these markets continue to grow well for us.

MARIA SHIM: Great, thank you, Nikesh. The next question is from Doug Anmuth of Barclays Capital. How do you define investing heavily in the future? More on infrastructure, products, headcounts -- how will you determine how quickly to ramp spending back up?

ERIC SCHMIDT: Well, thank you for that, and Doug's question basically says how do you judge between the various things you should invest in? And the answer is, it depends. You use your business adjustment. We know when we've got a successful product. We can tell because we measure it. If we can see it growing, we invest to accelerate it. We also tend to starve the projects which are not growing and try to figure out what error we made. So it's pretty straightforward business judgment. From our perspective, I would like us to see increasing our capital expenditures to the degree that we get competitive advantage from there. We've already indicated investment in headcount. The investment in headcount is roughly speaking half engineering and half nonengineering, which has been historically our model. The engineering is -- for all the reasons that you could imagine, we are short key technical talent to achieve some of these broader initiatives. In the nonengineering, it's mostly in sales and that's frankly quota bearing sales people who bring in money, money coming in the quarter. And on the product side, the products are really driven by the project strategy that we've talked about. And those are largely controlled by a set of operating units where they have product heads within the company who pretty much make those decisions under the supervision of Larry and Sergey.

MARIA SHIM: Great, thank you. The next question is from Jeetil Patel from Deutsche Bank. The underlying margin profile in the paid search businesses have been [50%] plus range. On a contribution margin basis, do your display advertising initiatives carry comparable margins? Can you speak to the margin profile of the display ad business?

PATRICK PICHETTE: So, it's Patrick. We just don't comment on specific product margins, so thanks for your questions, Jeetil, but typically, we just don't comment on any of those. I'll just pass and ask that we move to the next question, please.

MARIA SHIM: Okay. The next question is from Christa Quarles of Thomas Weisel Partners. You recently removed TeleAtlas from your mapping products in the US. How mission critical is the underlying mapping data with regard to your mobile ad strategy? What other areas of your business can it help you with?

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: Sure, this is Jonathan, Christa. So we launched the new maps dataset and we're now using it in the US and Mexico, and we basically built this through a wide range of sources that include street view, overhead imagery, the Census Bureau, the Forest Service. What's so key here is it gives us lots more flexibility to create new types of maps. So for example, somebody walking or biking or tourists versus locals will want to use very different types of maps. And it also leaves us much more open to users editing through Map Maker and other feedback mechanisms. So this is very, very significant and will allow us to launch better place pages, and just make the whole process of looking at local information much better. If you think about it, behind the movie theater -- it's a valid address in some countries. But the only way you can actually capture that on a map is with local knowledge, and this is going to allow us to harvest that all over the world.

MARIA SHIM: Great. Thanks, Jonathan. The next question is from Ben Schachter of Broadpoint AmTech again. International revenues -- any change to order of countries that are most meaningful contributors to revenue? Trying to get a sense of where Japan and the emerging economies rank relative to the big European countries. Are Brazil or China significant yet? Nikesh?

NIKESH ARORA: Thank you, Ben. Whilst we don't we give out the relative rankings or the revenues of countries outside the US and UK, I think the best way to think about this, as we mentioned, 53% of our revenues come from outside the US. If somebody earlier on the call has already done the math, that part of our revenue continues to grow at a good pace. I'd just call out certain countries -- so in that, we have countries that go fast, which grow very fast, and I called out certain countries, which are growing very fast for us. I think that should give you a sense of scale in terms of which parts of our business, which parts of the international markets are doing very well relative to the others, and over time, all these markets are relevant and significant for us.

MARIA SHIM: Great, thank you. The next question is from Brian Pitts of UBS. Would you talk about adoption of the DoubleClick Ad Exchange by ad networks and what kind of impact has there been? Has there been any discernible impact to pricing on the content network?

NIKESH ARORA: I think given that we launched our Ad Exchange this quarter, it is important -- there's not enough data for us to be able to look at and be able to say these things with certainty. But if you think about what the Ad Exchange is already beginning to do for us, it is already beginning to take away some pricing inefficiency from the market. Effectively, you're able to collect inventory from various networks which is unsold, which you believe is roughly about 25% of the inventory in aggregate, ends up being unsold because it doesn't have a common exchange or common place to get traded. That's what the Ad Exchange actually begins to enable. And that is the reason you're seeing many, many large networks wanting to participate in such an ad network because they want the inventory to be sold at the best price possible. So effectively, as we can get more and more sellers to the exchanges, we have more inventory in the exchange, you will begin to see some stability in price, which also allows us to create some consistency in our ability to target the ads towards the right users. I think overall, it's going to be positive for the overall display market. It is too early to tell precisely what the impact is based on our launch this quarter.

MARIA SHIM: Great, thank you. The next question is from Mark Mahaney of Citi. Can you provide any commentary on how material mobile searches have been to your overall search growth or when they could become material on a global basis? Also, what color can you provide on these searches in terms of monetization potential?

PATRICK PICHETTE: So it's Patrick. Just to give a sense, again, we don't give the detailed numbers. What we provided this quarter, which I think was a really revealing statistics is, on a quarter over quarter basis, mobile searches grew 30% on Google this last quarter. It tells you something about the mobile space, the space of the SmartPhones, and how they are really transformative. So the combination of the Android platform with all the SmartPhones and the momentum in there, as well as the iPhone and the rest of them, I mean they are just basically transforming how people live on a mobile basis.

And if you run the tape forward, I think, again, another support for the Android strategy, if you have -- if we move forward, the adoption of these SmartPhones by having a lower cost infrastructure because it's open source, and you bring that -- instead of taking seven years, I'm just giving an illustration, all of this happens in four years, think of all the searches that will happen so much faster. So the ecosystem is incredibly vibrant right now and clearly what's interesting about these phones is they, there is a lot of new types of searches, because you're location-specific, you're activity specific, you're local specific, just a new set of areas that are to create a new set of monetization opportunities. So it's for all these reasons that we are so bullish about it and just really investing heavily. So that's my best answer I can give you, Mark, without any of the specifics.

MARIA SHIM: Okay. Next question, from Spencer Wong of Credit Suisse. You indicated that you are prepared to invest heavily again. Can expense ratios remain stable in that context, or will expenses as a percent of revenues begin to increase?

PATRICK PICHETTE: Let me give you in the context of why we're making the comment this quarter about investment. I think that the best way to characterize our situation is the following. Google really has been and continues to be an unconventional company. It runs on its innovation agenda. I think it's fair to say that in the last 12 months -- you'll remember 12 months ago we were sitting together and there was a massive crisis going on in the banking system, in the economy, and this was the worst recession in like generations, if not 100 years. We decided at that time to just be prudent about navigating these unchartered territories. As Eric said a few minutes ago, now what's clear is the banking system is not collapsing, and the economy -- even though many sectors are going to continue to hurt, the worst is behind us. It is in that context that I think it's important that now we go back to do what we really do well -- innovate, invest, build the future. And that's what is really meant. And then I think as Eric mentioned a few minutes ago, we're really optimistic about making these investments and we're looking forward to it and that ties to both hiring and moe capEx, and we'll judge them on a case by case basis. I think that's the best way to understand what's going on really. Bring it over to the next question.

MARIA SHIM: Great. So the next question is from Jason Helfstein of Oppenheimer. Give us color on US versus international paid click trends and CPCs in the quarter?

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: This is Jonathan. We really don't typically comment on the specifics there. We certainly saw click growth across lots of regions, and CPC growth, but the main thing you have to be looking at there is the blend. It is largely impacted by the growing regions like China, Brazil, and India where the CPCs are relatively lower.

MARIA SHIM: Okay. The next question is also on CPCs or paid clicks. That's from Doug Anmuth at Barclays. Do you think your growth going forward comes more from pay click volume or pricing increases?

PATRICK PICHETTE: I think this relates to the previous question, which Jonathan answered. I think the best way, again, to think about this is there are still a lot of countries, lot of parts of the world where we are still seeing more and more people come online, which creates more searches and therefore creates more paid click volume around the world. At the same time, lot of our ads innovation, which we're doing, is going to drive some of the CPC growth in some of the far more mature markets.

MARIA SHIM: Great. Thank you, Nikesh. The next question is from James Mitchell of Goldman. CPC has improved by 5% sequentially two quarters in a row with benefits from FX hedging. Does Google believe its CPC has already enjoyed most of the recovery rebound, or is CPC still subtrend?

PATRICK PICHETTE: I mean, we don't comment forward. James, so rather -- I mean we were really pleased with, as Nikesh said, right, in a way, our revenue really reflects what's going on in the economy from the consumer side and from the advertiser side. And it's a great question as to what the coming quarters are going to look like. To give a bit of color commentary again on this, what's really interesting about Q4 this year is if you think about everything that happened last year, year-over-year comparisons are going to be really interesting. So for example, last year, there was a flood of inventory that needed to find a home, so discounting was quite dramatic and coupons were everywhere. This year, it's a different story, with inventory at an all-time low and people prudent. It will just be interesting to see. Rather than to give you any answers as to how we see the future, I think it's really important that people have a mental model of how they think the economy is going to rebound and everybody has their own view, but we don't comment on prospective.

MARIA SHIM: Okay. The next question is from Jim Friedland of Cowen. The Google site's TAC rate was down quarter over quarter, 6% to 5.8% for the first time. Are you pulling out of some site traffic acquisition deals? Are you renegotiating contracts? Has the site TAC rate finally stabilized?

PATRICK PICHETTE: It's Patrick again. We -- every deal is done on a deal basis, and they are all profitable. We look for great partnerships. So we are not pulling out of any great deals. We just work with each of our partners. We're delighted to have so many partners. And every deal that makes sense, we actually do together. So -- and sometimes you have deals that either expired or didn't have the right mix, so you may have fluctuations like you have this quarter, but I wouldn't read too much into it.

MARIA SHIM: Okay. We're going to take one more question, and that's from George Askew of Stifel Nicolaus. How rapidly do you expect headcount to grow over the next two years?

PATRICK PICHETTE: I'm going to steal the thunder from a few comments and conversations Eric and I have had. And it's been about -- if you think about everything we've lived through together over the last year, it would have been great to continue to hire even sooner. So in that sense, we're delighted that we're able to now continue to fund for investing in our resources, headcount resources -- and then you still have to make sure that it's not about headcount. It's about finding the people that sit in the Google culture, the best engineers, the best minds -- and as we find them, we hire them. So it's more a function of finding these fit rather than to put quotas on a quarterly basis. And that's why quarter we had a bit of a retreat in [hires], but it's not because we were trying to shrink. It's just because you have to find the right Googler. Eric, any more comments on this?

ERIC SCHMIDT: Again, I think this -- in terms of recruiting, I think we do it well. And so we will grow at whatever rate we can.

MARIA SHIM: Great. Thank you. So that wraps up the Q&A portion. Again, we were trying something new this quarter, so we would love to get your feedback. Now I'm going to turn the call over to Eric.

ERIC SCHMIDT: Just to finish up, I hope it's clear that we're very happy with the quarter. We believe we now have the confidence in our underlying business and the business trends to begin to get back to do the kinds of things that we do so well, and that we really see as our mission, which are to make the world an information-rich place, to build some of these new businesses and really serve our customers very well. So with that, thank you all very much. Thank you, Maria, and thank you, all, for being on our call.

OPERATOR: And this concludes today's conference. We thank you for your participation.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
goog : Google Inc.
   IN
ividad : Video Advertising | i838 : Advertising | i8385 : Electronic Advertising | iadv : Advertising/Public Relations/Marketing | idirma : Direct Marketing | imark : Marketing | i8395464 : Internet Search Engines | iint : Internet/Online Services
   NS
c32 : Advertising | cmarkr : Market Research | c11 : Plans/Strategy | c15 : Performance | c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | c22 : New Products/Services | c31 : Marketing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | uk : United Kingdom | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020091029e5af001gu
  


 HD
 Q2  2009 Google Q&A Session - Final
   WC
10,483 words
   PD
16 July 2009
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©009 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
OPERATOR: Good day, and welcome, everyone, to the Google Inc. conference call. This call is being recorded. At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Ms. Maria Shim. Please go ahead, ma'am.

MARIA SHIM, IR, GOOGLE: Good afternoon, everyone, and welcome to Google's second quarter 2009 earnings follow up conference call. With us are Patrick Pichette, Chief Financial Officer; and Jonathan Rosenberg, Senior Vice President of Product Management.

   TD
After we cover a few housekeeping items we'll open the call immediately to your questions. Please limit yourself to one question and one follow on. Also this call is being webcast from our Investor Relations website located at investor.Google.com.

Please refer to our website for important information including our earnings press release and related slide deck. A replay of this call will also be available on our website in a few hours. Please note that we routinely post important information on our Investor Relations website located at investor.Google.com and we encourage you to make use of that resource.

As a reminder, the purpose of this follow up call is to give participants the opportunity to ask more detailed financial and product questions in an efficient and Reg FD compliant manner. Let me now quickly cover the Safe Harbor.

Some of the statements we make today may be considered forward-looking and these statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially. Please note that these forward-looking statements reflect our opinions only as of the date of this presentation and we undertake no obligation to revise or publicly release the results of any revision to these forward-looking statements in light of new information or future events.

Please refer to our SEC filings including our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, as well as our earnings press release for a more detailed description of the risk factors that may affect our results. Copies can be obtained from the SEC or by visiting the Investor Relations section of our website.

Also please note that certain financial measures we use on this call such as operating profit and operating margin are expressed on a non-GAAP basis have been adjusted to exclude charges relating to stock based compensation. We have also adjusted our net cash provided by operating activities to remove capital expenditures which we refer to as free cash flow. Our GAAP results and GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliation can be found in our earnings press release. With that we are ready to take your questions. Operator?

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions) We will pause for just a moment to assemble the roster. We will take our first question from William Morrison, ThinkEquity.

WILLIAM MORRISON, ANALYST, THINKEQUITY: Hi. Thanks. I have a follow up question on the exchange. And Jonathan I think in the call you said that it is now essentially integrated with Edwards and AdSense. I am just curious do you think the bigger opportunity in the exchange is on the DoubleClick network of publishers or Google content network? That's question number one.

And question number two, as I'm sure you're aware, Congress is once again looking at regulating behavioral advertising. And it seems like, at least the initial take is they're pushing for opt-in on third party cookies, opt out on first party.

I'm just curious, I believe you guys have stated that you support that kind of environment. And curious what kind of impact that would have on the exchange business and behavioral targeting you are doing on the contact Google network? Thanks.

JONATHAN ROSENBERG, SVP, PRODUCT MANAGEMENT, GOOGLE: I guess it is a little early for me to handicap the overall opportunity. To date we are happy with the progress on the add exchange we've integrated the existing DoubleClick exchange with the Edwards and AdSense advertisers, and it is all on the Google infrastructure at this point.

Overall the idea there is about creating the biggest pool we can of liquidity. So, advertisers will find opportunities where they can today, and will be able to monetize inventory the most efficiently. I don't think it could be any better insight into what the relative sizes might be.

On the cookies side, we are already allowing users to edit preferences in the manager in terms of opting in and opting out. I think that's a pretty positive sign because it means that you can control the ads to a degree. But I don't really have a sense -- I can't really speculate as to what's going to happen based on different potential legislation that we haven't yet seen on how it is going to impact the market overall.

I think people are very interested in the intraspace advertising efforts but probably a larger fraction of the opportunity is just in creating this open platform for both advertisers and publishers to buy and sell inventories. So I think that's probably relatively more important than just the modest incremental improvement in targeting that you might get from one particular component of the targeting.

WILLIAM MORRISON: Thank you.

PATRICK PICHETTE, SVP, CFO, GOOGLE: We will go to the next question, please.

OPERATOR: We will take our next question from Sumit Dhanda from JMP Securities.

SUMIT DHANDA, ANALYST, JMP SECURITIES: Yes. Thank you very much. On the call you mentioned--?

PATRICK PICHETTE: Sumit, you just dropped off somehow. Maybe you are on mute? We will take the next question and then come back to you.

OPERATOR: We will take our next question from Marianne Wolk from Susquehanna.

MARIANNE WOLK, ANALYST, SUSQUEHANNA: Thank you. You highlighted the strength in the AdSense for content business this quarter. Can you talk about whether you are seeing a net increase in overall spending when advertisers use ASC or is this a more economical source of conversions for them and reduces net spending?

PATRICK PICHETTE: I don't know if it reduces net spending but it is a good, I mean obviously it is a -- as Nikesh mentioned earlier on the call, there is mix of in the -- if you think of the display space, right? There's clearly a mix between the branding side and then the performance side. And people are in these times really focusing on the performance side. And in consequence it really helped that part of the business. I don't know, John, if you have more comment to give on it but that's basically what we see.

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: Yes, the only other observation I have is I have certainly seen with some advertisers they are finding display is really a great complement to search. And an advertiser starts a new display campaign on the content network and they actually see some improvement in their search ads getting more effective.

So I think that there's a positive dynamic between the two. But we are not really seeing a shift from search. We are seeing the subset of advertisers who are tapped out on search and still have budget to spend looking for incremental conversions and being aware of the fact that on an ROI basis they could get that content and grow their total sales.

MARIANNE WOLK: Overall you think this is an incremental source of revenue?

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: Yes.

MARIANNE WOLK: Okay. Great. Thanks very much.

PATRICK PICHETTE: We will go to the next question please.

OPERATOR: We'll take our next question from Ross Sandler from RBC Capital Markets.

ROSS SANDLER, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Two quick questions, first on the partner sites versus Google site. So partner sites revenue growth outpaced Google websites growth on a quarter-over-quarter basis for the first time I think ever -- even with the $44 million quarter-over-quarter FX boost. So can you provide us with a little color on what is driving that mix shift? Is it the display stuff you were just referring to? And then I have one follow up.

PATRICK PICHETTE: There's nothing really fundamental. If you look at in terms of percentages, if you look at how the mix is changing, it is not changing in any fundamental way. So, this quarter, I mean in fact [ad] Google properties have really delivered most of the growth in terms of revenue. So, the AdSense network continues to grow but in fact, it grew at a slower pace; 3.5 versus 2%. So I am not exactly sure if I understand your question.

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: This is Jonathan, the only other big component that you might consider there may be if you look at it relative to a year or so ago, is the component that's coming from display.

ROSS SANDLER: Right. On a sequential basis, I think Google sites are down about 1% and the partner sites up 3%. That was just the only -- that was what I was referring to, Patrick, I guess.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Yes, on a quarterly basis but on a quarterly basis, it is really, it is very difficult for a 90 days to make a trend. I know it sounds like, but and given these numbers in terms of total revenue, I mean that's how you have to think about it.

ROSS SANDLER: Okay. There weren't any like real significant partner wins that may have kind of been a one-time incremental boost in the second quarter?

PATRICK PICHETTE: No, not at all.

ROSS SANDLER: Okay. And then on the FX hedging issue, so you had a greater FX hit. If we look year-over-year, the 497 versus last quarter 429, but you're hedging revenue was $124 million this quarter versus the $154 million last quarter. So, is that difference explained by some of the one-time gains you had on the hedging side in 1Q? And is this $124 million that you had in 2Q kind of the right stable run rate to think about going forward?

PATRICK PICHETTE: No. So, it -- again FX is a complicated matter, right, for two reasons. One is we started building our FX program last year roughly at this time, and at that time we had nothing for the GDP for example, right. We actually only started setting up GDP hedges at the end of the second quarter, actually at the end of the third quarter, so kind of September-October time frame.

So if you think of the ladders of hedges we have started building last year, right, they come at different times and then therefore they impact through this year in different magnitudes. So be careful of using like this quarter and the numbers you see as what should be the steady state for a certain set of exposures.

Second is where the currency was last year depending on where we were, Q1, Q2, Q3. Again, on a delta year-over-year basis gets very different sets of numbers. You have to think of the puzzle in terms of those two factors.

Unfortunately right, you don't have all of this information to build. But that's how the mechanics really work from our FX desk. So that's why you end up with this quarter, the delta between where the radar today for Q2 versus the Q2 of last year give you this kind of sense of magnitudes. So that's the simplest way I can explain it.

ROSS SANDLER: Okay. Thanks, guys.

PATRICK PICHETTE: And I know it is frustrating. I acknowledge that. Let me acknowledge that it is a complex set of issues. And so it is very difficult to get a sense of.

So let's go to the next question.

OPERATOR: We will go next to Sumit Dhanda from JMP Securities.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Welcome back.

SUMIT DHANDA: Thank you. Thank you. So you have mentioned that CPCs in fact have been impacted because of the increase in query volumes in countries like -- low CPC countries like Brazil and China. If you were to think about it macro conditions were to improve and higher CPC geographies, do you think the momentum would be big enough to overcome the declining CPCs of Brazil and China? Or do you think declining CPCs we should start to expect as a secular trend from here on just because query growth from those markets will probably be higher than some of the more developed countries?

PATRICK PICHETTE: I think you're painting the puzzle the right way, which is international mix has a real effect on our CPC. And it has it in two ways, which country it comes from whether it be Germany versus India, the growth rates between these different countries. And then obviously there's all the currency issues and FX issues that play into it as well.

So I mean the -- what we talked about, it was down year-over-year and up quarter-over-quarter. Is a good illustration of what the combination of all of these things do right, and then you have seasonality on top of it. So these are the pieces at work. Jonathan, I don't know if you have additional color.

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: Well, I mean international growth will be a significant component in terms of what the blended average CPC will move towards. We certainly expect growth in those developed markets as the economy rebounds, but the relative difference between the monetization in the US, Canada, Australia, Western European countries is quite significant relative to some of the more base markets. So as you add incremental clicks from those developing markets that's going to continue. That brings the blended average, everything else being constant, down.

SUMIT DHANDA: Okay. And one final question, in terms of tax, what tax rate should we be using for 2009?

PATRICK PICHETTE: I can tell you that at the end of the second quarter, 20% was good. Because that's where, I can't give you any forward -- and again I think that the comment I made on the call was an important one, right. There are really two sets of kind of big dynamics in our tax rates. Obviously, it is remember, all of the mix between our international versus US mix of revenues is a big component that will actually swing the tax rate.

And then second is how the hedging programs rolls out and depending on the types of gains that we may have on hedging and the way that all this flows through, also has a significant impact on our tax rate. So for, if you remember in Q4 for example where we had very large gains on FX, it drew a lot of tax implications. So it is just these are the two big ticket items that you have to consider through your modeling.

SUMIT DHANDA: Thank you very much.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thank you. Next question, please.

OPERATOR: We will take our next question from Trip Chowdhry from Global Equities Research.

TRIP CHOWDHRY, ANALYST, GLOBAL EQUITIES RESEARCH: Thank you. Two quick questions. First regarding the new initiatives that you have with ApExchange and other product initiatives. It seems like we don't have a business model supporting those initiatives. Do you think it would be still exported or license supported? And if you think it is more license supported, how can investors feel confident that Google can execute on business models which are other than pure ad driven? Thank you.

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: The ad exchange itself is actually -- it has a business model today. It is driven by the volume of ads that are flowing through the exchange. And it's the same thing --

WILLIAM MORRISON: I mean app engine?

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: Oh, the --app engine.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Yes. I think that Eric addressed that question when we talked about enterprise and apps earlier. And I think that there are certainly opportunities for other licensing models and other models in terms of garnering revenue.

But I think that we are confident that with a lot of the functionality we are delivering to people where they're running search both across their internal information and across their external information what we are doing is creating a better environment on the web, creating a better environment online, creating more applications for developers to produce.

And the more people spend time on the web; the more they search. The better they can search over their own internal information, the more they run searches online. So I think we are pretty confident that in the long run from a strategic perspective that's positive for us.

TRIP CHOWDHRY: And a follow up on that, if you look -- I was investigating and trying to understand your developer programs on the stuff. It seems like between the competition between Microsoft and Google, the way it is being played out. It is less of a competition, more of a war of attrition. And why I say that is you are giving up a lot of OS and a lot of software for free. And even before the industry matures, [industry] immediately gets collapsed and which I don't see any person as a winner.

So who do you think -- you create products where you grow the industry in terms of revenues rather than collapse industry from day one? And obviously, we have different data points here regarding end rights even though Google claims it is very successful. Our data points are saying it hasn't been successful. And again the prime reason is it just couldn't gather the revenue matrices for your developers. Developers are not making money on Android -- they're making a lot of money on iPhone. And that's the reason why iPhone is successful. The next big question is how do you think about growing the industry rather than collapsing industry from day one? That's all for me.

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: I'm not sure I completely understand your premise about growing the industry versus collapsing it. I mean, the broad story from a developer perspective is we are trying to make the web the place to build to deploy and experience what are becoming increasingly rich and exciting applications, and we are doing that in a few areas.

We are making the browser more powerful with Chrome. We are trying to make connectivity pervasive and accessible and usable for developers. I disagree with some of the comments about the degree to which the Android market is robust. We have got a lot of applications that we are seeing there and a lot of users using them. We are also trying to provide Google level services to every developer which is app engine. And we are very optimistic that that is going to make for a much more exciting and richer web.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Okay. Let's go to the next question, please.

OPERATOR: We will go next to Ben Schachter from Broadpoint AmTech.

BEN SCHACHTER, ANALYST, BROADPOINT AMTECH: Hey guys, a few housekeeping questions. One, bonus accruals didn't come up at all I don't think and that was sort of the issue last quarter. I was wondering if you can talk about how those trended and how we should think about those?

And then if we could dig a little bit deeper into G&A. And if you could just remind us what were the big issues in Q1? And I think you were sort of implying that there was nothing special about where the run rate was in Q2. Maybe we should think about that going forward.

Finally on the tax rate, my understanding and previously has always been the tax rate you put in the quarter is what you expect was your best guess for the year. And so we should all think about that as your best guess for the year, is that correct?

PATRICK PICHETTE: So I would start with the last one. In theory, you are right that when we take tax provisions you can't just look back wards you have to think through the full fiscal year. But again, if you think of all the moving parts within it, it is a bit like OI&E, with Brent and the team in Treasury, right, they try to give you a number that reflects what they think is going to happen but then the currency takes off and then the world changes, so just a word of caution on that one.

In case of G&A, you are right that we have not had and you will remember in Q1 we talked about kind of three items that really impacted our G&A or that we had noted anyways. The legal settlements, which were kind of one-time in a few areas and then there was the restructuring of our sales and marketing group, and then finally there was some bad debt. These are the three that specifically we had documented and mentioned to the street. We didn't have anything of any significance this quarter. So that is -- that is the essence of some of the delta.

In the case of the bonus, you will remember it was really a big issue between Q4; a year-end issue and starting the year. I mean there's nothing special to report on the bonus accrual for this quarter.

BEN SCHACHTER: Were the bonus accruals similar to what they were in Q1?

PATRICK PICHETTE: We wouldn't comment on that. Let me tell you this way. We have our plan that has been approved with the Board, and that plan basically has a set of indicators within it and we are tracking according to these indicators.

BEN SCHACHTER: One other thing you very subtly were mentioning YouTube might be doing a bit better than it has in the past. The prerole issue is the first time you have sort of really embraced that on a public call. Do you think that's going to be the key monetization effort going forward? Or is it still you are testing out new, new methods or are you kind of set on prerole in terms of how you are pushing your sales force?

PATRICK PICHETTE: Let's give two answers on it. Let me give you the general answer and then I'll let Jonathan jump in on the details. I think that the -- it is true that we are pleased with YouTube's trajectory. And in part the reason why we are communicating to the Street is there has been so much press over the last quarter with all of these documentations of massive costs, and no business models and all of the negative press that we have read a lot about. And we just wanted to kind of reaffirm to the Street this was, this is a very credible business model and it's one that has got trajectory. In that sense it is just to tell everybody we are on progress on the plan that we had made for it.

I will it turn to Jonathan on the monetization pieces.

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: Sure, Ben. There really isn't a simple answer there because there are sort of four main user activities on the site if you think about it broadly, right. They enter on the home page, they search for videos to watch, they watch videos and they upload videos and engage with the community with comments, recommendations and that sort of thing.

The different types of modes really get different advertising models. And that's part of why I think it has taken us time to triangulate towards what works and I think some of the things that we have now are still in pretty nascent basic stages.

If you look at the home page, it is basically big brand display ads. Search can be good for promoting videos. Kind of similar to maybe what AdWords does for Google. If you look at where the big inventory is, the massive users are in more of the watch pages.

So that is where we are sort of trying to figure out. Is it overlays that are going to work? Is it the instream stuff? I think we are still testing all of these things and the answer is going to be different for the different areas on the site that the user is on.

BEN SCHACHTER: I think on the call you indicated much more, just being more open to the preroles. And that seemed to be new to me. Were you not trying to indicate anything in particular there?

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: I would not say that our overall optimism that we expressed with respect to YouTube is primarily a function of one specific format. We have actually been testing preroles I think for quite a while. So if you interpreted that one single comment to preroles to imply the broad conclusion with respect to optimism on YouTube. I think that's probably, that is probably a mistake.

BEN SCHACHTER: Okay. Thanks.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Let's go to the next question, please.

OPERATOR: We will take our next question from James Mitchell from Goldman Sachs.

JAMES MITCHELL, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Sure. Thank you. If I was smarter this question would be simpler. So I apologize in advance if it is confusing. If I look back at the last year or so, seems like paid lead growth sales [broke through] the financial crisis whereas price per click access [ex] dropped very sharply. And then this most recent quarter, paid lead growth slowed a little bit to up 15% year on year, while price per click seems to be stabilizing quarter on quarter.

When I take those trends is it better to infer that paid leads just grows structurally over time by face a law of large numbers while prices per click are sensitive to the economic cycle? Or is it better to infer that Google's monetization initiatives tend to boost the paid leads in some quarters versus price per click in other quarters?

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: Well, maybe you are smarter than I am because I'm not sure I understand the entire question. But I think what you said is generally true. I think that in any given quarter, the economic situation can impact the number of leads that are likely to convert, impact the number of commercial queries. I do think what Nikesh said is true which is that advertisers don't constrain by their budget they manage to bids. So I think --

PATRICK PICHETTE: I think the model, if you think of -- go back and take a look at the relationship between click growth and then CPC right. Click growth is driven by so many factors. So you have the growth of the Internet itself then you have the seasonality within it and then you have, there are so many factors that will drive the click growth.

And then obviously, if people are in recessionary environments shopping even more for the better bargains and then they click even more because they move around a bit. So it is a complex hypothesis that you're tabling and to kind of say here I have figured out the four dots that make it work. I mean, I don't think any of us around the table that live in this world would make it a simple puzzle.

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: The one thing I think we can say for sure is queries are less sensitive to the economy. There's more comparison shopping when the economy is not strong, and potentially a little bit less buying. So you could still have high paid -- so paid clicks can be high even when the economy is bad and I think the CPCs would adjust if the users aren't converting and drop if that's consistent with the hypothesis that you are trying to articulate.

JAMES MITCHELL: The comparison shopping could have helped paid lead growth in the fourth quarter while the weaker conversions would have hurt [CPC] in now conditions, normalized a little bit. Maybe it is just a extrapolation question. You mentioned there were 12 improvements throughout quality in the quarter, and they had a bigger impact than you should on revenue. Would that impact be felt more on the paid leads or more on the [PPC]?

PATRICK PICHETTE: It would impact both.

JAMES MITCHELL: Okay. Thank you for that. Rich question.

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: Thanks, James. Let's take another question, please.

OPERATOR: We will go next to Mark Mahaney from Citi.

MARK MAHANEY, ANALYST, CITI: Thanks. One question just on mobile. There has been some data points that in the Founder's letter about a third of queries in Japan coming off of mobile devices that's obviously a very unique market. You don't qualify unique but it obviously is a very unique market.

Any other markets where you think search queries are material 5% as a percentage of total queries? And any thoughts on are there any particular reasons why Western Europe and the US and other markets over time wouldn't reach levels that may be half of what you'd see in Japan's? Call it over a two to three year period? Thank you.

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: So are you specifically asking questions with respect to mobile search volume increasing relative to Japan?

MARK MAHANEY: Just mobile search, yes, please.

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: Well, I mean mobile search volume is increased quite a bit in the US, I think as we mentioned. And that's largely a function of availability of phones with good browsers and I think data plans are also are an important dynamic.

Generally, I think mobile search volume is pretty high in Indonesia and in the Middle East. But we are starting to see mobile growth increase pretty well overall. You certainly see more interest in mobile search where the land line infrastructure is relatively poor. But -- I don't have any more specific thoughts beyond that.

PATRICK PICHETTE: As Eric said in the previous call and I think the adoption of these high end devices, which are getting more and more ubiquitous; the G-phones, the Android platform, the iPhone. I think they really do drive a lot of living on the web because the web is so much more accessible and therefore a lot more searches as well. There's the fundamental trend that's happening there as well that is clearly more than just Japan. There's a whole ecosystem that is building right now.

MARK MAHANEY: One quick follow on has to do with paid search results. What's the latest thinking on the inclusion of broader formats within paid search results, i.e. allowing advertisers to respond to intentions with more than just text but include display ads or video links or whatever in the paid search results to apply universal search that you've applied to organic search to paid search results? Thank you.

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: I think Nikesh mentioned the Video Plus Box. We are also working on much better ways of offering valuable information in ads with functionality like the product OneBox where we are doing similar efforts. We are also I think going to make significant progress and we have made some in experimenting with local, where it is easier to -- or we're getting better at determining where a user is and thereby being able to give them the appropriate local information.

There's a lot of opportunity and if you look over the course of the last year, I think that the search results have in many ways with Universal search been outpacing the innovations on the ad side. And we're really going to move forward with the experiments on things like products and video and local. We of course have got to do that in ways that are good for the user, but we think we are making progress there. I think we have made more progress on the surf side.

MARK MAHANEY: Thank you, Jonathan, thank you Patrick.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thank you. Let go to the next question, please.

OPERATOR: We will take our next question from Youssef Squali from Jefferies and Company.

YOUSSEF SQUALI, ANALYST, JEFFERIES AND COMPANY: Thank you very much. So, two quick questions for you, Patrick. If I take the domestic business which was sequentially down and I take out some revenues from YouTube so you talked a lot about how well YouTube did I can very easily get to year on year decline in the US search business.

So, I am trying to understand what this really means. I mean, why wouldn't that imply maybe the beginning of the maturation of search? I know it is somewhat unbelievable but what is the counter argument there?

PATRICK PICHETTE: That the US search business is not declining.

YOUSSEF SQUALI: Okay. So that means YouTube -- the numbers --

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: This is Jonathan. It is not all static, right. We are going to continue to deliver to these advertisers much better ways to manage their bids, much better ways to optimize their campaign and manage their budget. We actually didn't talk about it on the call but we have ruled out a new advertiser interface for Ad Words to a very large fraction of our advertisers.

The previous question just asked about the opportunities to improve the quality of ads and if you look at it today, the click through rate on ads is still low relative to the search results. So I think there's lots and lots of opportunity there. And there's still many verticals where is we don't do a particularly good job with the searches. There are lots of head room in terms of monetization for search overall.

YOUSSEF SQUALI: That's helpful. I am looking at the domestic revenues last year versus this year, and the delta is really only about 40 million, $45 million. So the point there just for sake of argument is YouTube was there last year which obviously it wasn't. And if it is [$50] million this year, which arguably if it is or not, then your domestic revenues in search would be declining year on year. But your point is they're not. So, I will take that.

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: Also, there's another flaw in that logic because YouTube is not US only.

YOUSSEF SQUALI: Majority of it is US though.

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: And but also it wasn't 0 last year.

YOUSSEF SQUALI: Right. Fair enough. Okay. If I look at growth in the network, it was up 2% versus negative 3% in Q1, right. So how much of that was driven by YouTube versus AdSense for content. In other words, is AdSense for search up as well year on year or is AdSense for content just growing faster? Looking at AOL, traffic for AOL for ask for MySpace, the numbers don't just look too impressive to imply that AdSense for search would be that much higher.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Yes, there's no doubt that ASC is up relative to AFS within that period. But also in general display as well as been up. Because Q1 if you remember comments we have made on the display side there was some build back in Q1 versus Q4, and now coming back into Q2.

YOUSSEF SQUALI: Okay. That's helpful. Thanks.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thanks for the question. Let's go to the next question, please.

OPERATOR: We will take our next question from Christa Quarles from Thomas Weisel Partners.

CHRISTA QUARLES, ANALYST, THOMAS WEISEL PARTNERS: First question, you guys talked a little bit about the mobile advertising market being basically not a separate biddable marketplace. I was wondering if you could just give us rough sizes of percentages of advertisers who have opted out to the mobile piece, more or less than half. So that's the first question.

And then the second question is do you guys have any data around your developer community yet, which are the most popular products that developers tend to be working; size of developer, community, how many people went to the developer conference? So that's question two.

And then the third question is just I found myself opening my lot to Google last week, I had to pay for storage because I had been bumping up against my limits. I was wondering if you guys have actually said how many people pay for Google storage? Thanks.

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: This is Jonathan. I think that we had 3500 people at the developer conference sign up. Somebody can check on that and tell me what the--.

CHRISTA QUARLES: It included people like me.

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: Well, no, I think it was 3500 developers.

CHRISTA QUARLES: Okay.

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: We can specifically check on that.

CHRISTA QUARLES: Okay.

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: The -- I believe on the mobile side that's generally a separately biddable marketplace.

CHRISTA QUARLES: I thought it was opt in. I think Eric's comment on the call was specifically that it is roughly the same CPC because it is embedded in the same PC marketplace. But over time -- I thought it was a right now you basically have your queries basically for the PC and you have to opt out so as not to be included in the mobile results. Is that not --

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: So, well, mobile is sort of tricky because there is the SmartPhones which are more conventional browsers. And that is -- that's tied to the traditional experience. But then there's a separate set of mobile only campaigns that you can also run.

CHRISTA QUARLES: Okay. I guess what -- I am talking about the SmartPhones side. And I guess, the question is manifesting out of the fact that I have talked to mobile competitors who are frustrated that you guys are embedding that and they're saying that the ad quality may not be as good or whatever. So I guess what I am trying to get a sense of from you is what percentage of advertisers have chosen to opt out of those mobile because they either don't feel like the quality is there or they're just not ready to measure it?

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: That I don't know. I know that the default -- I think the default is that you show on both but we give advertisers control and they can opt out. They can do just a SmartPhone only capabilities.

CHRISTA QUARLES: Right. But you don't have any --.

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: I think the number is small but I don't actually have it with me.

CHRISTA QUARLES: Small that has opted out?

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: Yes.

CHRISTA QUARLES: Okay. And then paying for storage, do you have any idea?

PATRICK PICHETTE: I don't think we have ever disclosed that.

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: It is not a significant -- paid storage is not a significant portion of our revenue.

CHRISTA QUARLES: Okay. Thanks.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thanks. Let go to the next call, please.

OPERATOR: Thank you. We will take our next question from Sandeep Aggarwal from Collins Stewart.

SANDEEP AGGARWAL, ANALYST, COLLINS STEWART: Thank you. Jonathan it has been nearly six, seven weeks since Bing was launched. Just a couple of questions to the extent you are willing to comment. What is your overall take on Bing? Are you seeing any changes or behavior by a typical Google user in terms of propensity to search at Google? And also, in terms of using up lending (inaudible) along with some particular offerings such as travel and shopping can really work here?

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: I think we said on the call we think it is relatively early to call. We certainly haven't seen a large shift in share. I do think that there are opportunities to do a much better job with vertically oriented searches.

And the question was asked on the call earlier, we talked about some verticals. I think I mentioned finance on the call earlier where there's certainly an opportunity to do a much better job with ads. And certainly I think there's an opportunity to do a better job in shopping and in travel and in many verticals in time.

SANDEEP AGGARWAL: And Patrick if I may ask one question on the head count, there was a 378, head count reduction sequentially. Was this, what was it (inaudible) job elimination versus not refilling the attrition?

PATRICK PICHETTE: Let me give you the context on this again. I think it is important. We had announced at the end of Q1 a number of rationalization in the sales and marketing program. And we are, we have a lot of, we continue to have a lot of job openings, and we are hiring.

So, in the second quarter, what you see is just a manifestation of if you can't hire fast enough in the job openings you have, just for whatever reason over the last 90 days you end up in this position where you haven't started catching up if you wish. So it is just a timing issue.

So the Company continues to hire, it continues to have many recs open in many departments, and in some positions were eliminated in sales and marketing as was discussed. So that is the net result of it; right. So if you go to the Google site for job posting you will see a lot of job postings today.

SANDEEP AGGARWAL: Thank you.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thank you. And thanks for that question. Let's go to the next question, please.

OPERATOR: We will go next to Doug Anmuth from Barclays Capital.

DOUG ANMUTH, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Thanks for taking the questions. Two questions, I think pretty straightforward. First one on cash flow, your net income was higher Q to Q but your free cash flow was lower. So can you clarify what's going on with working capital and also in income taxes?

And then secondly, on TAC, it came in somewhat higher than we expected at least. So I am curious how much you are benefiting at this point from the Dell deal coming off? Are you still paying residuals there? And are we likely to see sort of greater benefits from that going forward? Thanks.

PATRICK PICHETTE: So on the cash flow, I will give you the most simple answer which is in Q2 you have two tax payments and they occur for the federal and the California state and they occur April 15, and I think June 15. So just those are not in Q1 and then you get a big hit in Q2.

It is a big amount of money like hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of millions. I think it's like $800 million or $900 million in that range. So it is like a ton of money. That will impact free cash, obviously impact, by far outweigh everything else on the free cash flow calculations. Everything else actually is in pretty good shape.

On the TAC side, I think -- there's again, if you look at our TAC and how it has been progressing as I said on the call prior -- on the previous call. You just got moving pieces but you wouldn't have -- kind of, there's no significant event that would have actually moved it in one way or another.

You just have this effect between Google and the non-Google and then you have the effects of the niche between -- within the AdSense network between the smaller and the larger guys. And then that moves all of the time and that's what you see in the reflection.

Obviously, so what we have seen in Q2 is higher percentage of the smaller partners, and slightly higher on the Google. And that's what you end up with.

DOUG ANMUTH: Okay. Just going back real quick on that tax hit as I look back at other second quarters I assume that timing would be the same but I don't see sort of a similar effect there in previous years.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Yes, but I wouldn't worry about two years ago what happened in Q2 for TAC. Two years ago or three years ago you would have had very different mix of deals with very different pay outs.

DOUG ANMUTH: Okay. All right I was referring to income taxes actually.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Oh. Sorry.

DOUG ANMUTH: Taxes, close.

PATRICK PICHETTE: TAXE, okay yes. I thought it was TAC, did everybody get tax? Sorry about that. On taxes, no I mean well I would have to go back. Every year we pay a lot, right?

DOUG ANMUTH: All right. We will take it off line.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Okay. We will have the IR people come back to you on the details.

DOUG ANMUTH: Okay. Thank you.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thank you. Next question, please.

OPERATOR: We will go next to Jeetil Patel from Deutsche Bank.

JEETIL PATEL, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Great. Couple of questions, guys. On the TAC it has obviously been moving down as Doug alluded to as well. But curious are you able to basically take down TAC on the search side of the CPC front and maybe reallocate it to more the lead gen side of the business in terms of CPA and CPM inside the network there?

And second as your look at your display category developing, are you seeing the interest in YouTube develop among pure display oriented advertisers or lead gen oriented advertisers?

And then lastly Germany, last quarter I think you pointed out has a fairly strong market for you (inaudible). I guess can you give us a sense of where Germany is and is that close to cracking the 10% market in terms of contribution?

PATRICK PICHETTE: I just need to understand better your first question.

JEETIL PATEL: TAC has been moving down, is there the possibility that you can take some of your TAC dollars, that you pay out on a CPC basis whether it is search or CSCs or others, and bring down those TAC payments and reallocate them to more of the display side of the business in terms of inside your AdSense for content network on a CPM basis?

PATRICK PICHETTE: The different deals are just different characteristics and you can't just shift them. They're with each of the partners and they -- here in the AdSense network there is a certain structure. And then if you do a deal for Chrome or for Toolbar you just have a completely different set of structure for those deals.

We continue to manage each of these sets of partners and each of these streams of TAC with their own set of economics. And every time we get a good deal we do it. And the mix is -- the mix is just a product of all of that; no more, no less. We don't think of, okay we will reduce the dial on one to increase the dial on the other. Everything that makes sense we do.

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: This is Jonathan, I guess on the questions with respect to YouTube. I tried to address some of that in, I think it was Ben's question. And again, the type of advertiser really depends on which of the activities it is, right. There's the home page, there's searching for videos to watch; there's the watch pages. So, it depends which activity you are talking about.

The traditional Google advertisers are generally direct response focused. The brand display advertisers, people taking over the home page banners are more display oriented. And I think you are starting to see some TV advertisers come on line but I don't think I can give you too much color on exactly to what degree that is playing in the equation.

And then what's the question, there was also I think a question about Germany?

DOUG ANMUTH: Yes, Germany you highlighted as a big, and a strong market last quarter. I guess can you just provide an update on commentary on how that progressed in Q2?

PATRICK PICHETTE: I mean it did well. But I wouldn't give anymore information than that. You will remember last quarter in Q1 there was a lot of macro economic events that people were asking about. How is Europe doing given the melt down and the economy and the UK, and how is the rest of the continental. So we just use this as an illustration rather than a set of data points with a lot of facts around it.

Thank you. Let's go to the next question, please.

OPERATOR: We will go next to Steve Weinstein from Pacific Crest.

STEVE WEINSTEIN, ANALYST, PACIFIC CREST: Great. Thank you. A lot of my questions have been asked but can you just help explain all of the volatility in the interest and other income line and how we can get our hands around that? It is swinging enough that it is affecting the numbers.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Yes. Like OI&E will continue to be a real challenge. It is a real challenge for us as well. Right? Because FX there has been so much volatility in FX, in the last little while. And I think the next three or four, last three or four quarters. I mean it is difficult to predict where FX is going.

So, in fact we were discussing as a team like some companies kind of right now stay at the margin level, right? And then after that they say it is really tough to give guidance anywhere below. Obviously we don't give guidance. But the point is in general there are really two big drivers that affect it for us.

One is obviously on the investment side, we have been very conservative in the last year to make sure that we protect the capital of Google. And by doing so, right, obviously our yields have gone down quite dramatically to protect that. So all of our investment in our markets -- marketable securities have been sovereigned back and that we have talked about. It has a pretty big impact in terms of trajectory.

On the flip side of that, our hedging cost as volatility continues to be really high, the hedging costs we've benefited from it. But sometimes you just get the timings of the FAS 133 that hit you. And even though you are doing fine on your hedges per se, right, you end up at the end of the quarter and because of where the FX rates stand at that point and then you mark to market your options. You end up with having from an accounting point of view, bringing these expenses back into the current quarter it can have a big effect. These swings can be quite significant.

So I sympathize with you because it in fact is really difficult to get some good semblance of where this thing is going on a quarter to quarter basis. I mean I can tell you that on the flip side of that is we manage this very responsibly. Obviously, as you can see in the results of our FX program.

And then our investment program, we have to think through in the coming quarters as to how do we, given the economy stabilizing and the banking systems are stabilizing, right, how do we rethink our investment portfolio, do you take advantage of kind of the stabilized environment?

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: This is Jonathan, since I actually got a factual answer to one of the questions that was asked earlier I thought I would just share it. I answered Christa and said that there were 3500 developers or I may have said attendees at the developer conference. There were 3500 attendees but 2196 developers. So there must have been, Christa must have been there with a lot of her friends but the factual answer to your question is just under 2200 developers.

PATRICK PICHETTE: So, Steve I open that answers your question and the big pieces at work.

STEVE WEINSTEIN: Yes. I think understand the pieces, and hopefully we will get less volatility. So thank you.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thank you. Let's go to the next question, please.

OPERATOR: We will go next to Ross Sandler from RBC Capital Markets.

ROSS SANDLER: Just a couple of follow ups. First on the CapEx. Patrick, you have said in the past you have kind of thrown out the hypothetical example that up until the middle of last year, you guys were managing the CapEx program to always kind of stay ahead of capacity. So if you thought you needed 20 data centers in a given year you would invest in 22 or 23. How do we think about where we are today in terms of capacity utilization of all of Google's infrastructure, and when does maintenance cap CapEx have to start kicking in?

And then a question, a follow up question, on just the relative growth rates for US versus like Western Europe, do you think those two markets through the second quarter are now moving closer in tandem? Western Europe started to slow down a little bit later than the US in terms of kind of where we have come from in the last four quarters. Do you think we are now in parity in terms of the deceleration in those markets?

And then the last question is when you talk about putting the content network on AdEx, the next version of the Exchange, how does Google think about sacrificing potentially more favorable rev share deals with publishers that are on the content network today with potentially a less, a lower rev share if they put their inventory on the exchange? I think the exchange is, are closer to a 5 to 10% type of rev share. So how do you think about that dynamic when you start plugging in all the inventory from the content network? That's it.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Let me start with the CapEx question. And so on CapEx, I mean it has been every quarter, I have been here four quarters, and every quarter everybody asks, Patrick, it is going down again. So is it bottoming out?

And we have had a great benefit in the last two or three quarters of not only higher utilization rates, but Moore's Law has been at work for us on top of that and we have had really good timing of our capacity. So the combination of all of these things has given us quite a boost in terms of managing our CapEx. And that is just shown in the results.

You will remember also that I said we have a number of areas where we need to invest, and we are making the investments. And I'd mentioned, you'll remember one place which is in Scandinavia, which the only time you can work on it is in the summer. Even if we had all our plans to start in March, the place was in the deep freeze at the time. And now they're kind of working hard at it.

So, we continue to invest. And they're lumpy and they're big. And when you get a next generation of servers ready then you do a big overhaul and then at that point you get a lot of capital in. And that's just the nature of the business.

So we are one, very pleased of the way the team has worked really hard to get this better utilization, and better planning of the capacity. So they're smarter about it so we have got the benefits over the last three or four quarters, and we are continuing to invest. And we will do so in the future. That's on the CapEx side.

On the content --

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: I don't think there's an easy answer on the AdExchange question. The idea is basically to create an open platform so advertisers and publishes can buy and sell inventory. I think they're going to be different optimization insights and different margins which are justified by different targeting technologies that different players bring to the table. But I think that what we are hoping to do is eliminate, reduce a lot of the fragmentation that exists in the whole buying experience. And if you can, if overall you can get more budget and more advertisers and more publishers flowing through there, in the end the economics are going to work across both sides.

PATRICK PICHETTE: The last question you asked which is US versus Western Europe. We are really pleased the growth in Western Europe. Obviously in both of these markets the economy has had a lot of short term effects that you can't discount, that's been true for the UK and also the FX has had a huge effect as you can see to our results. So in both cases we are really pleased with growth rates that we have.

I don't think that I would correlate one already with the other right now. I think they have their own sets of momentums and dynamics. Let's go, we will take one last question. Unfortunately we are running out of time. So we'll take one last question, please.

OPERATOR: Thank you. We'll take our final question from Colin Gillis from Brigantine.

COLIN GILLIS, ANALYST, BRIGATINE: I know that every customer is important. But when we talk about slimming down the sales and marketing efforts, could you give me a sense as to what is that customer base that needs an awful lot of direct hand holding? Is it a 1,000 customers, is it 5,000 customers?

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: This is Jonathan. I don't think there's an easy answer to that question. Basically the way we manage the sales and the support experience is on a bang for the buck basis we are providing the support to the customers from whom we are going to garner the largest amount of revenue. I think if you were able to support larger numbers of customers, you would be able to make incremental revenues.

So, I think there are many, many thousands of customers that could use optimization efforts from our support organization. There's only a subset that we are actually able to support at the level that we would like to. But on a bang for the buck basis, we are prior advertising at the top of that funnel.

COLIN GILLIS: You shouldn't read--?

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: The key there is really focusing -- I mean we are really trying to do there is create automated tools that make scaling these efforts easier and make it easier for customers to optimize on their own. Of course, we also partner with agencies who I think do a lot of the heavy lifting there for us and play an important component to the equation.

COLIN GILLIS: Absolutely. So I mean just trying to get some sense. Directionally would you say you're focusing in more on the larger customers at the top of the funnel?

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: Yes, certainly we allocate our sales time. I mean the sales people allocate their time on the basis of -- on the bang for the buck basis where the money is for the most part.

PATRICK PICHETTE: The direct sales force focuses essentially on these very large national accounts; our very large advertisers. And whether they are agencies or they are big customers. That's where they focus essentially their attention. And then we have a second category that you get some phone support and the third category that you just sort of on the web.

So, what we did -- the reason why we did, just coming back to the original question, the front end one. We did the rationalization we grew so fast and then we made a number of acquisitions. And then you end up in a position when you kind of start adding all of the bodies and you say okay who is talking to whom. You end up with duplications in some places. And that's neither good nor bad. It is just the way it was. And we said okay let's do a bit of rationalization.

But we continue to -- we have all of the head count we need in order to focus on the big accounts that we want them in. We are not constrained in that sense, if you wish, right? We just, we have -- and that's why we did the clean up in Q1.

COLIN GILLIS: Thank you. That was a very nice quarter you had.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thank you very much.

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: Okay. With that, Maria, we can close the call. Is that okay?

MARIA SHIM: Yes. Thank you, everyone, for your time. We will talk to you next quarter.

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: Thank you, everybody.

OPERATOR: This concludes today's conference. We thank you for your participation.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
goog : Google Inc.
   IN
i8395464 : Internet Search Engines | iint : Internet/Online Services
   NS
e1101 : Economic Growth | c32 : Advertising | e1112 : Capacity Utilization | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | e1113 : Inventories | e1117 : Business Sentiment | e511 : Capital Movements/Invisible Trade | mlead : Lead Markets | c11 : Plans/Strategy | nitv : Interview | ntra : Transcript | c31 : Marketing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e51 : Trade/External Payments | ecat : Economic News | m14 : Commodity Markets | m142 : Metals Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mnonfr : Non-ferrous Metals | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020090730e57g0025t
  


 HD
 Q2  2009 Google Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
10,332 words
   PD
16 July 2009
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©009 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
OPERATOR: Good day, and welcome everyone to the Google, Inc. conference call. This call is being recorded.

At this time, I would like to turn the conference over to Ms. Maria Shim. Please go ahead, ma'am.

   TD
MARIA SHIM, IR, GOOGLE: Good afternoon everyone, and welcome to today's second quarter 2009 earnings conference call. With us are Eric Schmidt, Chief Executive Officer, Patrick Pichette, Chief Financial Officer, Jonathan Rosenberg, Senior Vice President of Product Management. And joining us for the first time, Nikesh Arora, President of Global Sales Operations and Business Development. Eric, Patrick, and Jonathan will provide us with their thoughts on the quarter, and then Nikesh will join us for Q&A.

This call is being webcast from our Investor Relations website located at Investor.Google.com. Please refer to our website for important information, including our earnings press release issued a few minutes ago, along with slides that accompany today's prepared remarks. A replay of this call will also be available on our website in a few hours. Please note that we routinely post important information on our Investor Relations website, located at investor.Google.com, and we encourage you to make use of that resource. As a reminder, we are holding two calls today.

On this call we will discuss our strategic overview, and Q&A with the usual format, followed by a second call, which is effectively an extended Q&A session with Jonathan and Patrick, giving the opportunity for participants to ask more detailed financial and product questions, in an efficient and Reg FD compliant manner. The second call will begin at 3:00 p.m. Pacific Time, and will also be webcast from our Investor Relations website.

Now let me quickly cover the Safe Harbor. Some of the statements we make today may be considered forward-looking, including statements regarding investments in our core business and innovation, expected performance of our business, and our expected level of capital expenditures. These statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties, that could cause actual results to differ materially.

Please note that these forward-looking statements reflect our opinions only as of the date of this presentation, and we undertake no obligation to revise or publicly release the results of any revisions to these forward-looking statements, in light of new information or future events. Please refer to our SEC filings, including our Annual Report on Form 10-K, for the year ended December 31, 2008, as well as our earnings press release, for a more detailed description of the risk factors that may affect our results. Copies may be obtained from the SEC, or by visiting the Investor Relations section of our website.

Also please note that certain financial measures we use on the call, such as operating profit and operating margin, are expressed on a non-GAAP basis, and have been adjusted to exclude charges relating to stock-based compensation. We have also adjusted our net cash provided by operating activities to remove capital expenditures, which we refer to as free cash flow. Our GAAP results and GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliation can be found in our earnings press release.

With that, I will now turn the call over to Patrick.

PATRICK PICHETTE, CFO, GOOGLE: Thank you, Maria. So good afternoon, or good evening, everybody. What we will do is we will have our regular schedule, so Eric will give us his comments first. I will cover the financial portion, and then Jonathan will give us a product update. As Maria mentioned, we also have Nikesh with us, and then we will turn it to Q&A.

So without further ado, I will let Eric introduce.

ERIC SCHMIDT, CEO, GOOGLE: Thank you very much, Patrick. Google has had a good quarter, one that demonstrates our resilience in what continues to be a very difficult environment, 3% year-over-year growth, as you have seen from the press release. Google's business appears to have stabilized, despite the still weak economic environment. Advertisers and customers are obviously seeing the benefit of the performance-based advertising that we offer, and consumers are clearly using search more than ever to find the best deals.

We have also implemented careful cost controls to help our performance, making our business more efficient has been our goal for the last few quarters, it should put us in a good position to benefit from the eventual recovery, whenever that occurs. We are going to continue to invest in innovation, history shows that companies which invest in innovation during downturns emerge stronger than the cost cutting competitors, and it is easy for big companies, Google is now a larger company, to become conservative to take small steps when they need to take really big ones.

We are determined not to make that mistake, and as an example, you don't change the world incrementally. You do it through big innovation and the ability to execute on your ideas, so for example, we have just announced Chrome OS for netbooks, our effort to rethink what an operating system should be, based on our lightning-fast browser technology, Chrome, which people are already using, we need a faster operating systems for the same reason we need faster browsers. People are doing everything on the web, and this will be an operating system built around ubiquity and power of the internet.

And innovation, of course, is not just new products like what we talked about last week. It is also the key to long-term growth in our core and our new businesses. In our core business, search is still an unsolved problem, even though Google is working very, very hard on the next generation of search, more social, more personal, more intelligent, we did more than 100 search quality improvements in the second quarter, and users are now coming to us with increasingly more complex questions and queries. We are getting much better at finding exact information and the content people are looking for. We just introduced, for example, Google Square, which automatically fetches, and sorts facts and data from across the web on any given topic.

We now actually have another feature called Search Options, which Jonathan is going to talk about. In ads, strides in ad's quality and sales drove healthy revenue growth, despite a tough economic environment. Our ads keep getting better as we have developed new ways of identifying high quality development ads. We are experimenting with innovative ad formats for search, particularly in the areas of local, product,s and video, which should help us a lot in some of these new businesses.

And on the sales side, we have been much, much more rigorous, because of our management, because of our measurement and focusing our resources on the highest potential areas, for example, advertiser acquisition, and better tools to identify the largest opportunity from individual customers. Of course Nikesh has been driving that. In the new businesses, it is also good story. Display, and particularly including YouTube, performed very well this quarter.

YouTube is now on a trajectory that we are very pleased with, and we are helping marketers and agencies create great ads easily, for example, DoubleClick Studio, tools which allow customers to build end-to-end rich ad app campaigns. In Mobile and Android, another area of innovation in new businesses, mobile devices are becoming an extension of the internet. We all know this, and more and more Google searches are coming from mobile phones of all kinds. We are focusing to innovate in this space.

So for example, we have done great news with Android, with somewhere between 18 and 20 Android powered phones on the market by the end of the year, which is phenomenal. Even in the enterprise, we have been able to have significant Q2 deals. The mobile handset division of Motorola has moved all 15,000 users to Google. 75 new schools for Apps education in the second quarter. Temple University, The University of Massachusetts at Amherst, The University of Alabama, the list goes on. We have now deployed against, for example, 30,000 employees at Valeo, which is an automotive company, JohnsonDiversey, a cleaning product manufacturer, another 10,000 employees, so the model is beginning to work. So to put this in perspective, we are very pleased with our year-over-year performance, particularly in light of the still weak economy, and the economic situation continues to be tough, as we all know.

We saw relative stability in our business in the second quarter. It is too early for us to tell when the recover materializes, I wish we could just prove it, we could do the analysis and figure it out, but we don't know how to do that yet. So when the recovery does come, and it always eventually comes, we are very well-positioned for the future, given our constant and continuing investment in innovation.

So with that, Patrick, thank you very much. Go ahead.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thanks, Eric. Good afternoon, everyone. So I will take a few minutes to run through our results. We are pleased with our performance in Q2, showing solid revenue growth and good expense management, especially in the kind of environment that Eric portrayed.

Our gross revenue grew 3% year-over-year to $5.5 billion. We saw relative strength across our business, despite a weak macroeconomic environment, and a dollar that is still quite strong compared to last year. In fact, if we applied last year's exchange rates to our Q2 revenue, these would have been roughly $500 million higher.

So fortunately, we have recognized $124 million of benefits from our hedging program to partially compensate. Google.com was also strong, contributing the majority of the total year-over-year growth, it was up 3.5% year-over-year to $3.7 billion. With continued healthy traffic growth, and we saw signs of strength in certain consumer verticals, such as shopping, and computer and electronics. Others, such as finance, continue to be relatively weak. In Q2, we also benefited from a number of ads quality launches.

AdSense was up 2% year-over-year to $1.7 billion. In AdSense for content in particular, we saw solid results. Our smaller partners performed well, and our display business experienced strong year-over-year growth as well, and I will let Jonathan and Nikesh talk more about these successes.

Our global aggregate paid click growth remains healthy. They were up 15% year-over-year, even if down 2% quarter-over-quarter for seasonality. Aggregate costs per click growth was down 13% year-over-year, but up 5% quarter-over-quarter. Again, FX clearly had a negative impact on our year-over-year growth, but a positive impact quarter-over-quarter, due to the weakening of the US dollar versus the first quarter.

Turning to our geographic performance, the US had revenues up 2% year-over-year to $2.6 billion. International revenue accounted for 52%(Sic-see press release) of our total revenue, or $2.9 billion. The UK was down 8% year-over-year to $715 million, and was clearly negatively impacted by the FX, as well as ongoing macroeconomic weakness. This was partially offset by revenues from our hedging program.

Let me now turn to expenses. Traffic acquisition costs were $1.5 billion, or 27% of total advertising revenue. Other cost of revenue was $655 million, which included $14 million in stock-based compensation. And all other operating expenses totaled $1.5 billion, including approximately $279 million in stock-based compensation again. On a year-over-year basis, our OpEx was lower by nearly $120 million, and flat quarter-over-quarter.

So as a result, our non-GAAP operating profit, which excludes the stock-based compensation, increased to $2.2 billion in Q2, compared to $1.9 billion last year, and a resulting non-GAAP operating margin of 39.2%. We are really pleased that we have been able to manage our costs prudently, while fully funding our strategic growth areas in search, display, mobile, and Apps. Again, Jonathan's going to go into more details of our initiatives in these areas in a minute.

Turning to head count, we have approximately 20,000 full-time employees at the end of Q2, down approximately 375 from the end of Q1, even though we continue to hire in many areas of our business in Q2, we ended up with a decrease, primarily related to the reduction in the sales and marketing positions we had announced, you will remember, at the end of Q1.

Let me now turn to cash management. In other income and expense, we had a net expense of $18 million for the quarter. As I talked to many of you on the last call, we managed our cash very responsibly. For the past year and again for most of Q2, we have been focused on capital preservation, and we believe that this was obviously the right thing to do, given the recent macroeconomic environment.

So in consequence, this means we realized lower yields on our investments. Our realized gains on our marketable securities were $18 million. And once again this quarter, the high volatility, relative to options strike prices required us to accelerate our hedging expenses, as per the FAS 133 rules. The impact on [OA&E] on our FX program was roughly equivalent from last quarter.

So as I mentioned earlier, we did, however, continue to recognize benefits from this hedging program, while we also benefited from a slightly weaker US dollar during Q2 versus Q1. Our cash flow hedging program allowed us to recognize a benefit of approximately $124 million to international revenue this quarter. Our effective tax rate was 20% for Q2. Let me remind you that any change to the mix of earnings between domestic and international subsidiaries, as well as the effect on earnings of various hedging activities, and the related hedged items, do have effects on our tax rate.

Operating cash flow was very strong at 1.6 billion. CapEx for Q2 was 139 million. While the recent trend in CapEx has no doubt been declining, remember that we will continue to make investments, and significant ones in CapEx, in that it is simply lumpy from quarter to quarter, depending on the timing, and when we are able to make these investments. Finally, free cash flow was also strong at $1.5 billion.

So in summary, we are pleased with our Q2 results, especially despite the expected seasonality, the economic situation, and our year-over-year FX fluctuations. It is clear we are able to be disciplined about our costs, but while staying really focused on fully investing on the big, long-term opportunities that we see in our core business, display, mobile, and Apps. Finally, and also important to note, I would just like to remind everyone as we do every year, that Q3 also tends to be impacted by summer seasonality.

With that, I would like to thank you for your time, and I will turn it over to Jonathan for his thoughts on the quarter. Jonathan?

JONATHAN ROSENBERG, SVP, PRODUCT MANAGEMENT, GOOGLE: Okay. Thanks, Patrick. So I want to highlight the key launches this quarter, and try to give them context with some of the principles that drive our innovation efforts. If you recall, going back to the founders letter from our IPO in 2004, we have always said our focus is on users. Today, user interest still drives pretty much everything we do, but recently, we have become a lot more focused on what we call the active power users. What we have seen is the power users and search are getting a lot more sophisticated, so they are running more complex queries.

They end up typing in longer queries than they used to, and their expectations today are much, much higher. If you actually think about search, five years ago, people were just delighted when they Googled what they wanted, and they found it. But today, they actually get upset when they don't get what they want, so that is a really big difference.

So to better serve power users, we launched our new search options feature, and what that does is let's you slice and dice search results in different ways, like by time, or type of result. If you click on the Show Options link, which you will find at the top of a search result, you will get a sense of just how that innovation drives usage. We also have a basic user principle that fast is better than slow. And we have told you this before in that it is critical for search and our, engineers continue to focus on reducing search latency throughout the world, but speed is actually also key for all of our other products.

We launched a number of improvements with Picasa in Q2, and one of them let's you run a slide show of the pictures that you have uploaded to the web, and it does it as quickly as if the pictures were stored on your computer. You can see this if you go to a large online album, and you just rapidly bang on the right arrow key. That is basically what I did when the team told me they were ready to launch. So try it. It is cathartic to hit your keyboard. Just go bang, bang, bang, bang on the arrow key, and you will watch on the screen and you will really see viscerally, that Apps running in the cloud can actually be as rich and as powerful, as Apps on your desktop.

We also have a policy of ship fast and iterate often. So we redesigned Google Labs, and our engineers have been releasing new labs features about twice per month. Fusion Tables, Google Squared, Similar Images are a few from Q2. Gmail is also another example where we are shipping and iterating, we are pushing out roughly one new feature a week. Things like automatic message translation, and my team gave me a long list of other features to list, but let me just repeat Automatic Message Translation. Stop, think and try that. It is actually a pretty big deal.

Also, our entire suite of Apps products is robust enough, that we took it out of beta last week. We also run product development by encouraging teams to make big product bets on key technical insights. We believe that our most innovative products historically, if you consider, say, search, maps, Gmail, news, and Chrome, all of them are based on technical breakthroughs or bets. Recently, we have become bullish on a new standard called HTML5, and it is helping to make the web the platform for very powerful and rich applications.

It is especially important in mobile, where the high end phones with very rich browsers are becoming the norm. And this quarter, we launched mobile versions of Gmail and mobile web maps, that run in the browser using HTML5, their performance really is remarkable. We believe that the runway to innovate, due to the power of computers on these mobile devices, is nearly unbounded at the moment.

We are also making another technical bet with Google Chrome OS, the whole new generation of web-based Apps demand a much better, faster user experience. Once you have got all of your stuff online, you ought to be able to just open up your computer, and get there in a matter of seconds.

We are also innovating and driving monetization with mobile and YouTube as well. Mobile monetization picked up a good bit of momentum as search traffic grew, again driven mostly by the SmartPhones. And we are seeing that users on these high end phones are very active and engaged, beyond search, so display advertising on those phones is actually emerging as an interesting mechanism. On YouTube, monetized views have more than tripled in the past year. We are now monetizing billions of views of partner videos every month, and we are actively promoting featured partner videos on the home, watch, and search pages.

Of course one of our most innovative areas is ads quality, and we shipped more than a dozen improvements there this quarter. That is kind of a typical pace that I usually share with you, but in terms of RPM impact, it was a pretty strong set, with a higher impact than usual. Finally, we always want to make the web better. We believe that is what is good for the web, is good for Google.

E-mail is obviously a web application that generates a lot of usage. So a while back we asked the question, what if e-mail were invented today, and as you know, the answer there was Wave, which was a totally new way to communicate and collaborate online. What we did there, was rather than having our Gmail team work on this, the whole product was conceived and developed by a small team in Australia, they worked completely autonomously, they called the project Walkabout, and the product received a standing ovation at our recent developer conference.

Android, Chrome, Wave, and Chrome OS are all Open Source. This kind of open innovation helps us create the next generation of breakthroughs, and when I say us, I don't mean Google. I mean the larger community of creative web developers. The more power and tools that we put in their hands, the more innovation we know we are going to see on the web, and that benefits users around the world, and we think makes the pie bigger for everyone.

So with that, back to Patrick.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thank you, Jonathan. So what we will do now is we will turn it over to the operator, and we will set up the call for Q&A.

OPERATOR: Thank you. (Operator Instructions). And we will take our first question from Imran Khan from JPMorgan.

IMRAN KHAN, ANALYST, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: Two questions, one, on the mobile application site, I think you talked about that the mobile search volume has increased significantly. Could you help us understand the revenue for search difference on the mobile versus the web, and do you think it will cannibalize your search on the desktop?

And secondly, some could argue that Google solidified it's search market share through some of the distribution deal, like Ask and AOL. Considering one of your competitors launched a new search technology, how worried are you that they could be potentially aggressive to win back some of those distribution deals, and how aggressive you will be to hold back to those distribution deals?

ERIC SCHMIDT: Imran, thanks for your questions. On the mobile search side, one of the key things we have done in the last few months, is we have started to show the desktop ads. It turns out that the separate mobile ads have their own formats. Typically there wasn't enough demand, there weren't enough kind of creatives, and so forth.

So we started showing the desktop ads on the mobile browsers of high quality, and these of course, include the iPhone, and the Android phone, and anything that is a web kit inspired browser. All of a sudden we started seeing a tremendous number of searches, and also very good click-through rates. So they monetize at a similar level if they are desk-top-based, as if we are sharing the same auction, it makes sense over time that those ads should perform better than on PCs, because on a mobile device, we know more about the person, and we can have an even more targeted ad, but we don't do that today.

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: Yes, this is Jonathan. The other thing that I would say yes, specifically about cannibalization, I don't think there really is a cannibalization dynamic. We see that mobile searches tend to compliment desktop volume. Mobile goes up when people are away from their desks, so weekend tends to be higher for mobile traffic. Of course the reverse is true for the desktop.

On the second question, I think it is kind of too early to tell from a market share perspective what is going to play out in the long run. We certainly haven't seen any large shift in share to date.

IMRAN KHAN: Thank you.

PATRICK PICHETTE: We will go to the next question, please.

OPERATOR: And we will take our next question from Mark Mahaney.

MARK MAHANEY, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Thank you. Also two questions. Eric, you mentioned you think the business is stabilizing. What are one of the two most important things you look at to make that call, as to whether business is stabilizing or not? And then for Patrick, there are a lot of cost efficiencies that have been gained over the last couple of quarters. Can you talk to us about what the cost structure looks like coming out of the recession, whenever that is, to what extent should we believe that the cost efficiencies will stay in place post the recession, or is this more temporary efficiencies? Thank you.

ERIC SCHMIDT: On the stabilizing question, we a quarter ago, we had no idea where the bottom was. We started off the year, and all of a sudden our metrics were off, and it became clear that starting roughly Christmas, people were spending more time searching, and when they purchased products, they were purchasing products of less value. Furthermore, when they did so, the whole process just took more time. It appears as though, although the RPMs have not fully recovered, the other aspects of behavior have in fact come back.

And with the notable exception of the financial vertical, the other verticals in particular, shopping and travel, which had been significantly effected, appear to be recovering. So the sum of those tells us to say the word 'stabilizing.' We are not at the moment looking at that downward spiral that we thought we might see six months ago.

MARK MAHANEY: On the second question--

ERIC SCHMIDT: Let's ask Nikesh to offer some perspective on how this is playing out.

NIKESH ARORA, PRESIDENT, GLOBAL SALES OPERATIONS, BUSINESS DEV., GOOGLE: Yes, just to add to what Eric has already said, if you look at it from the geographical basis as well, we are seeing stabilizing in some of our key markets around the world. Also from an advertiser point of view, earlier in the year there seemed to be more uncertainty amongst our advertisers, who seem to now have come back and continue to go back and bid for major categories and major verticals. The small advertisers have stayed pretty much consistent throughout this process, because they are very ROI focused.

They understand the value of search. They understand what they are investing for. Large advertisers have sort of watched, and wanted to watch and wait for a while, who seem to have come back to the table, and that is where we are seeing the stabilization from the advertisers side as well.

PATRICK PICHETTE: So that covers the first question. Let me jump on the second one. I think, I think we can be really proud at Google about how Googlers have managed responsibly in the last two or three or four quarters, if you think everything that the economy has thrown at us. We have managed to keep the right balance too, between the Google culture of being frugal, but generous environment. That is really that portrays the place, and we didn't lose our kind of magic around that.

And most of all, I think that we are managing the Company to best position itself for the long-term growth. So it is clear we are able to be disciplined about costs, but at the same time, fully investing in our long-term opportunities. So I think that what we can take away from the last few quarters is, we have that ability, and we continue to manage it that way. So we have the flexibility we need.

MARK MAHANEY: Thanks.

PATRICK PICHETTE: We will go to the next question, please.

OPERATOR: And we will take our next question from Justin Post from BOA Merrill Lynch.

JUSTIN POST, ANALYST, BANK OF AMERICA: Thank you. My question is on paid clicks and CPCs. First, on CPCs, it looks like if we back out currency at 44 million, they were up 4% quarter-over-quarter. Is there any kind of sign of stabilization in that number, or is that due to mix and seasonality?

And the second thing is paid clicks, 15% growth. Could you talk a little bit about the mix? Are the higher value clicks, in say the US and UK, growing slower than maybe some of the lower value clicks internationally? Could that be a long-term CPC pressure, or are paid clicks growing pretty even across your entire system? Thank you.

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: This is Jonathan. Just back to the clicks across the system, I think the growth is more seasonality and mix. One of the things that we see is that Brazil and China, for example, are pretty significant, and probably have disproportionately more clicks. So I think we are seeing a mix of clicks from the high CPC Western European countries, and US seeing less relative to some of the growing markets. So that overall is having downward pressure on CPC. I think the bids tended to decline more earlier this year, and are no longer declining now as a general rule across the board.

JUSTIN POST: Thank you.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thanks. We will go to the next question, please.

OPERATOR: And we will take our next question from Christa Quarles from Thomas Weisel Partners.

CHRISTA QUARLES, ANALYST, THOMAS WEISEL PARTNERS: Hi. My question is on vertical search in the context of Twitter and it's realtime searching, and even attempt to carve out shopping, travel, local, et cetera. So my question is, one, how do you think about the concept of vertical search? Two, how strong do you believe your offerings currently are, and particularly how well you are merchandising those offerings to consumers? And three, do you still see sort of big monetization improvements as you think about vertical search and improvements in UI?

ERIC SCHMIDT: Historically we have not used the term 'vertical search' because Google attempts to sort of answer the question without categorizing it as this category or that. Other people have said we are going to offer a specialty service around this or that. So we work very hard to sort of take the query without bias. This is the way it plays out. So with respect to vertical search head room, there is plenty of such head room, especially as our ads products get better.

And so the reason we mentioned, for example, that in travel, things have come back, but finance has not, because that does in fact effect the revenue. We understand that. But we try not to sort of say there is a travel site, or what have you. Longer term, you never know what kind of innovation we can do to do that. It has been observed, for example, in some of these verticals, the ads are particularly more valuable than even some of the search results. We have not yet thought through what we will do with that observation.

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: I think it is the case, this is Jonathan, on the vertical side that there is a lot of opportunity to get incremental monetization gains, where you can further qualify the leads better for the advertisers.

So for example, the finance area and the travel area, are areas where there is a lot of opportunity to do that, so that you end up putting more information in the ad, and then incrementally getting more information from the customer, so that you can further qualify whether or not the customer in the finance area is interested in a particular type of mortgage, and then you send them to an advertiser with whom they are more likely to consummate a specific transaction, that that advertiser is willing to pay for. So there is a lot of opportunity there.

CHRISTA QUARLES: That is helpful. Thank you.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thank you. We will go to the next question, please.

OPERATOR: And we will go next to Ben Schachter from Broadpoint AmTech.

BEN SCHACHTER, ANALYST, BROADPOINT AMTECH: So years ago, I recall Eric discussing the idea that advertisers should be thinking about their Google spend as COGS, and not sales and marketing. I guess it was the notion that you give us a dollar, we will give you X dollars in sales. So now with more video images and structured data appearing in this, I am just wondering, should we expect to begin to see new monetization methods beyond just a traditional text-based CPC, actually appearing within the sort of basic Google.com search? Thanks.

PATRICK PICHETTE: I will let Nikesh answer that.

NIKESH ARORA: Yes, in fact thank you very much, Patrick. In fact we are beginning to see other forms of advertising and monetization, we already have CPM based monetization on our video properties, we have CPC based monetization on our display networks. We have even CPA-based monetization on certain parts of our display networks, so you are beginning to see different forms of monetization come forth in the online arena.

And as we go forward, as more and more media begins to shift towards online, we are going to see different forms of monetization. Most recently, we are beginning to see more and more branded advertising on YouTube in our various display properties. So, yes, the trend is in that direction.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thank you. Let's go to the next question, please.

OPERATOR: And we will take our next question from James Mitchell from Goldman Sachs.

JAMES MITCHELL, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Great. Thank you very much for taking the question. I wanted to dig into a little bit on why the general and admin spending was so well controlled? If memory serves, you had some [inaudible] legal costs this quarter last year, and some severance costs in the first quarter of 2009, but I wondered if there are any abnormalities in the second quarter of 2009, and also if there is any reclassification of G&A into Research & Development?

PATRICK PICHETTE: So I will answer that. So you are right that at the last quarter we talked about there were some kind of extraordinary items here and there. You will remember legal settlements, and restructuring sales, and a few other items. Otherwise, I think that what you see is the result of good, prudent focus on our general and admin, and we are really happy with the trajectory, and where we land, but there is nothing extraordinary apart from what you have just already mentioned.

JAMES MITCHELL: Thank you.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thank you. We will take the next question, please.

OPERATOR: And we will take our next question from Sandeep Aggarwal from Collins Stewart.

SANDEEP AGGARWAL, ANALYST, COLLINS STEWART: Thank you very much for taking the question. Eric, can you give us some glimpses of how the world of computing will look like with Chrome OS, and also maybe any comments on will it be a preinstalled deal with the PC OEMS, can it be downloaded, and if it can be downloaded, will it work with existing installed base, versus just the new PC shipments? Thank you.

ERIC SCHMIDT: Thank you. What we talked about when we did the announcement a week ago, was that we were going to build an Open Source version of Chrome OS, that would be available to the PC community a year from now. We are in fact talking to a PC hardware manufacturers of both architectures, both the ARM architecture, as well as the Intel architecture, to design products that are very, very exciting, that really fulfill the vision of cloud computing.

Other assets of our strategy are still to be worked out based on the feedback, and so forth. There will be a reference hardware spec, there would be appropriate features and so forth, and our primary focus for that product will be speed, and in particular, speed of boot, speed of computation, and the seamless use of all the web services that are the promise of cloud computing.

Will the software be generally available for download, will it run on existing hardware, those are things to be worked out. Because it is Open Source, we won't have the kind of restrictions that other people have, and it will be very possible for people to take it, and do almost anything that they want to it, which is another one of the great benefits of the Chrome OS.

SANDEEP AGGARWAL: Thank you very much.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thank you. Let's go to the next question, please.

OPERATOR: And we will take our next question from Youssef Squali from Jefferies & Company.

YOUSSEF SQUALI, ANALYST, JEFFERIES & CO.: Thank you very much. Two quick questions for Jonathan. By some accounts, June was reported to have been maybe soft, or softer than April and May for online advertising. Was that true for Google as well, and was there anything outside of just seasonality to account for that?

And then YouTube, you talked a little bit about it earlier, and you said that you were monetizing billions of videos per month. The last time I heard you guys talk about it, you were talking about it, you were talking about hundreds of millions of videos, so are we comparing apples to apples, and I guess lastly, what are the most popular ad formats right now?

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: Sure, Youssef. Let me start with the first question. We generally don't parse intra-quarterly trends, so I really can't say anything with respect to how June was or wasn't different. The only anomalous factor in this quarter I think was really the general timing of Easter versus in the previous year, it was I believe in Q1, and this year it was in Q2, but I don't really have anything else that I can offer. I think what I said was that, or what I meant to say was that monetizable views have tripled in the last year, and that we are monetizing billions of views every month.

Nikesh may be able to give you a sense from an advertiser perspective across the home page, the watch page, and the search pages, where we have different ad formats, featured videos, and the video promotion, promoted videos, which we are doing on the results pages, which he is getting feedback from customers, in terms of what they are the most interested in. I have certainly seen a lot of interest in the home page mastheads, which we have been introducing recently.

Nikesh, do you have any other feedback from the customers?

NIKESH ARORA: I think, Jonathan, just to add to what you said, yes, we are beginning to see that YouTube has established in the advertiser space, now that the YouTube homepage is of relevance, and is desirable for customers. So we are seeing significant sell-through in most of our major markets, where we have YouTube homepage for sale.

In addition, we are beginning to see lots of interest in pre-roll advertising, which is what customers want, on the short clips that we are beginning to acquire from our major partners, like Disney, and the deal we did recently with [Vivo], so I think the next phase of YouTube is going to be towards pre-roll videos on short clips and long-form video, which are in the process of doing various deals, which we have announced in the past.

YOUSSEF SQUALI: That is helpful. Thanks.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thank you for the question. Let's go to the next question, please.

OPERATOR: We will take our next question from Doug Anmuth from Barclays Capital.

DOUG ANMUTH, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Thanks for taking the question. Eric, you recently mentioned that display was the next billion dollars business, and I think this is sort of a change, because I think you said search basically over the last couple years. Is there anything in particular that has led you to sort of make this change, beyond what you sort of talked about around YouTube here? How do you think you are benefiting at this point from the DoubleClick acquisition, and also curious about the Google Exchange rollout, and how that fits into your strategy? Thanks.

ERIC SCHMIDT: Nikesh has really been driving that area. Nikesh, why don't you summarize where we are?

NIKESH ARORA: Thank you, Eric. I think the way to think about display for us is actually in multiple strands. One is clearly on the YouTube side, which you just talked about in terms of homepage and pre-roll ads, which we are beginning to see some good trajectory in. I think to couple that, the second area of focus for us is the Google content network, where we again see that the revenues are doing well, and it is performing well.

There has been sort of an aversion to more performance-based display advertising in the last quarter, because most of the advertisers have started going back to focusing on CPC and clicks. Where we are bringing sort of the metrics to search to display effectively, and we are seeing a shift away back from CPM to more CPC on the content network, because display inventory continues to rise, and people are beginning to want metrics to measure that.

On the third, as you asked, the DoubleClick integration, we have made tremendous progress to the Ad Exchange, we have now integrated that, the DoubleClick Exchange with AdWords and AdSense, and we are seeing traction, where publishers, advertisers, agencies, all want to work with an exchange, that allows us to expose inventory across the board, to both parties in the transaction. So I think Eric is right that that is the next area where the online advertising is going to shift, and we are going to see tremendous growth in the display space, and we are exited about all three areas individually.

DOUG ANMUTH: Thank you.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thanks, Nikesh, for the answer. So we will go back to the next question, please.

OPERATOR: And we will take our next question from Spencer Wang from Credit Suisse.

SPENCER WANG, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Thanks. Good afternoon. Just two quick questions. I was wondering if you guys could talk a little bit about the new trademark policy, and what the results have been since you rolled that out since mid-June?

And then just a follow-up again on the YouTube question. When you guys talk about YouTube being on a better trajectory now, is it just a function of increasing the number of monetized views? Or can you talk a little bit about maybe some of the click-through rates on the ad formats, and what you are seeing now versus previously? Thank you.

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: Sure. This is Jonathan. I will handle the specific question on the trademark change first. I believe we implemented that around the middle of June, and basically it is just an update to the trademark policy in the US for Google.com AFS and AFC, so that advertisers can use trademark terms in their ad creatives, if they are resellers or an information site for the product with the trademark.

And generally we are seeing significant interest in that. I don't have any specific revenue numbers to offer you, but you can certainly try some ads yourself, and get a sense of how frequently it is being used.

On the YouTube side, Nikesh, do you have some comments?

NIKESH ARORA: Yes, YouTube trajectory has effectively been about an ability to scale. We have introduced ad formats. We have gotten into the selling process, selling cycle of agencies and advertisers, and we have been able to go out and sort of create our sales force to go and make these sell-throughs happen. The reason we are excited about it is we have finally got all the pieces in place. The agencies are getting into the selling process and the buying process and getting our teams ready.

Secondly on YouTube, we are also now getting excited about the pre-roll stuff, because we are beginning to bring more content. The promoted videos idea, where we can promote partner content upfront, so we can shift more and more user views towards more premium content, allows us to create more inventory, couple that with the fact our teams are now out there selling advertising as pre-roll to various advertisers, that creates the scale and the breadth that we need to drive this forward.

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: And Nikesh, what has been the impact on the user experience from pre-rolls?

NIKESH ARORA: Sure. The pre-rolls, if you look on the web, if you look at premium content, users are accepting that when they are going to watch premium content, they are going to have to see it is supported either by some form of advertising funding, or perhaps they are going to have to pay for it at some point in time. It is becoming accepted user behavior that if they are going to watch content where people have invested money in creating it, they are going to watch pre-roll. There seems to be a general acceptance around this area.

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: This is Jonathan. We do look carefully at the drop-off rates with the pre-roll, and there is very little drop-off, so we are generally pretty optimistic there.

SPENCER WANG: Thank you.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thank you. Let's go to the next question, please.

OPERATOR: And we will take our next question from Jeffrey Lindsey from Sanford Bernstein.

JEFFREY LINDSAY, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN & CO.: Thank you. Could I ask, given the changes in YouTube and the increase in the amount of advertising, is YouTube actually profitable on a contribution basis, or is it a net negative? And then secondly, do you intend to make any money from the operating system? Will you, for example, charge for it, or will it be given free as part of Google Apps? How will that work? Thank you.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Right. So on the first one, we don't give the economics of YouTube. What I can tell you is that we are really pleased with the trajectory of YouTube. We are really pleased both in terms of its revenue growth, which is really material to YouTube and, in the not too long distance future, we actually see a very profitable and good business for us. So from that perspective, we are really pleased with the trajectory. On the second one, I will let Eric answer.

ERIC SCHMIDT: Yes, on the Chrome OS because it is Open Source, we do not plan to charge for it in an Open Source forum. There may be other ways in which we make money from it, but the core operating system, if you go and read the blog post, you will see we said this is an Open Source project, which will be available for anyone to use.

JEFFREY LINDSAY: So that means that even though you incur the cost of doing the development, there is no opportunity for you to make any money with it?

ERIC SCHMIDT: Well, first, remember, we do this with a lot of products, so for example our Android product, there are many other pieces of technology that Google builds, and the rough argument is that we do things that are strategic, because they get people to ultimately use the internet in a clever and new way more, and we know that as they use the internet more, they ultimately search more, or watch more on YouTube, and we then know that our advertising works in a particularly strong and targeted way.

So we do not require each and every project to be completely profitable or not profitable. We look at them in a strategic context, are they making the web a better place. And by making the web a better place, by getting more and more people online, especially on broadband connections, we have a lot of data that says that ultimately results in very strong revenue growth from us, because of the targeted ads that we offer.

JEFFREY LINDSAY: Great, thank you.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thanks, Eric. Let's go to the next question, please.

OPERATOR: And we will take our next question from Jeetil Patel, Deutsche Securities.

JEETIL PATEL, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Great, thank you. A couple of questions. When you look at OEM licensing fees, and if that makes sense or not, but I am just broadly, what is your view on consumer paid services, if that makes sense, in terms of leveraging your audience, and the lariat of services that you offer today, to go after somewhat of a consumer pay model, whether it be your own products or other products, say ISVs participating in Chrome OS over time?

And then second, a question around budgets of late, as you talk to marketers and advertisers, are you hearing that they are perhaps holding back budgets until the seasonal strength of August, September, and onward, which is typical of the seasonality trend that we have seen in the past?

ERIC SCHMIDT: So on the first part of the question, if our platform strategy works, and if there are many users of the Chrome OS, there will be many opportunities to build profitable services on top of that platform. That has been true for all of the successful platform plays over the history of computing. And they are likely to be large if it is successful. If it is not successful, then it doesn't really matter. So our focus right now is on building a truly new experience, something very different from the existing operating systems, and then see how broadly that can touch people's lives on a day-to-day basis, in the new model of cloud computing.

As another general statement, it is certainly my belief that you will see a duality between advertising and subscription services, and that eventually monetization in the web will have a very successful advertising model, which of course Google is the leader or one of the leaders in, and also a fair number of strong and successful subscription services, which include micropayment systems, and so forth, and so on.

And that infrastructure has yet to be built in my view broadly. But it makes sense that ultimately content will be either advertising supported, or charged for, and that content here includes content in the form of movies and videos, and so forth, but also things like software, and so forth and so on. With that, that ends the first half of the question. Go ahead.

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: I think the second half was just about advertiser budgets.

JEETIL PATEL: Yes.

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: I guess Nikesh can maybe give you a perspective from what he is actually hearing from the advertisers. The one thing I would like to remind you there, though, is most of our advertisers are not maxing out their daily budgets. So they will always take more clicks if we can give them to them. So in many ways, that is not the right question to ask, but if Nikesh has specific views of what he is hearing from the advertiser community, that might be helpful.

NIKESH ARORA: I think, Jonathan, you are right. Effectively what we have been spending our time with the advertisers is convincing them that search is an ROI-based media, and we can't create inventory. Inventory depends on consumer behavior, so they have worked with us to open up their budgets, and put it out there, what they set very vigorous ROI benchmarks on their bidding, so we understand that they will buy a click at a certain price, but they keep their budgets open with us for the most part, which allows them to buy as much inventory as is created on that particular day.

JEETIL PATEL: Eric, a quick follow-up on that ads versus subscriptions. Do you think that there is a business model from a kind of a royalty standpoint, as ISVs build out apps on top of Google Chrome OS?

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: Again, too specific a question.

JEETIL PATEL: Okay.

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: We don't know yet. It makes perfect sense that there will be new forms of applications distribution. Exactly how they get monetized, probably multiple ways. There are people who are experimenting with ads inside of applications. There is obviously the subscription model, which others are trying and we will know. The good news is, we can talk about this for a long time, because we don't really know for a year or two.

JEETIL PATEL: Okay. Looking forward to hearing about it more.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Great, thank you. Let's go to the next question, please.

OPERATOR: And we will take our next question from Heath Terry from FBR Capital Markets.

HEATH TERRY, ANALYST, FRIEDMAN, BILLINGS, RAMSEY: Great, thanks. Not to overask the YouTube question, but you mentioned that YouTube monetized used have tripled year-over-year. Can you give us a sense of what portion that is currently, and can you talk about the challenges to monetizing the non-partner inventory that make up the rest of those views?

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: I guess I don't understand the question with respect to a percentage.

HEATH TERRY: You mentioned that YouTube had monetized views had tripled year-over-year, I am assuming there is a portion of those that are non-monetized. I was just curious if you could give us a sense, as to maybe not exact percentages, but what that portion looks like?

ERIC SCHMIDT: In general, we haven't sort of dissected all of the numbers within YouTube. The majority of YouTube views are not professional content. They are user-generated content, because that is the majority of what people are watching. It is also the majority of what is submitted. YouTube is accepting more than 15 hours of video every minute here, and that is only increasing, which gives you a testament of the power of YouTube.

HEATH TERRY: And in terms of being able to monetize the non-professional side of that inventory?

ERIC SCHMIDT: It has not been our focus. It is probably possible to do so, but the fact of the matter is that the majority of the non-professional content has a relatively small number of viewers. It is difficult to target it accurately. There is too much variation and so forth, whereas the professional here, and remember, professional here just doesn't mean big studios.

It also means smaller studios, new entrants, startups who are professional quality, and you can tell a professional quality video from a user-generated one. It is easy enough. You can tell the difference between the two.

HEATH TERRY: Okay, great. Thanks.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thank you. Let's go to the next question, please. Probably have time for one or two more questions.

OPERATOR: Thank you. We will take our next question from Steve Weinstein from Pacific Crest.

STEVE WEINSTEIN, ANALYST, PACIFIC CREST SECURITIES: Great, thank you. It looks like over the last few quarters the TAC as a percentage to the network partners has been declining. And I understand there are all sorts of mix issues and seasonal issues that go into that. But I am wondering, given the momentum that you are seeing behind AdSense for content and display ads, if when we kind of spread that trend out, if we can continue to see downward TAC being paid out as a percent of the network.

PATRICK PICHETTE: So I will answer that. Look, there are a lot of mix issues with TAC. When you look at it relative to last year, there aren't these massive swings in TAC. There are clearly mix issues. So on the AdSense and partner networks, right, obviously if you have a mix with more of your smaller partners than your larger partners, it will influence the mix that way.

Clearly with Google TAC, it is not a big change, but it reflects the fact that, we have more partner deals to bring people to Chrome, to bring people to Toolbar. So there is no really big tectonic shift in any way shape or form, but what you see is just the effects of these mix on a quarter to quarter basis just at work.

STEVE WEINSTEIN: Okay. Thank you.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thank you. We will take one more question, please.

OPERATOR: And we will take our final question from Jim Friedland from Cowen & Company.

JIM FRIEDLAND, ANALYST, COWEN AND CO.: Thanks. Question on Google Apps on the Enterprise edition. Two parts to it. First, you charge $50 per user per year. Over time, is there a view not only to add services and continue to charge that level, but could you also offer premium features, so that you generate more revenues per customer? And second, as you talk to enterprises, what are the key barriers to adoption that you are hearing? Thanks.

ERIC SCHMIDT: At the moment, of course, we are very happy with the $50 a year model. We obviously have the opportunity to put in additional value-added services over time. We have got our hands full just sort of pursuing the current opportunity. I think over time, you can expect we would broaden to some of those ideas on a per product basis. When you look at the barriers to entry in that market, they are actually pretty easy to understand.

The customer has a large and existing investment in infrastructure, which is relatively highly specialized. It takes them some time to convert or adapt the systems that they have to use the new web-based computing. This, of course, is the fundamental narrative of these product transitions, and that is why they take so many years to go through. It is not that the customers don't want to make the transition.

The issue is that there is some feature, or some unique thing that they depend on. Examples would be in the category of security services, often security systems are relatively highly specialized. Access to specific and often historically significant, but currently not very significant database systems that they still need to have access to.

Other kinds of things, which are just tactical. In other words, they just require some amount of work, and over time we will knock down some of those issues, some of those would be conversions that people will do, et cetera, et cetera. We focused, for example, on the most common ones. Outlook, we have now launched an Outlook sync product.

The use of BlackBerries and in particular the BlackBerry Enterprise Server. We now have very good BlackBerry support as part of our Apps. Those are two of the ones that we have been able to knock down in the past few months that have been high priority, but there are certainly more.

JIM FRIEDLAND: Great, thank you.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thank you. With this, we will close the call. Let me thank everybody for taking the time to listen to our call today. Just to summarize, we are very pleased of a very good quarter in what is a stabilizing, but a difficult economic environment.

I also would like to thank Googlers for their incredible contribution in Q2. What great progress, and thank you for listening. So Jonathan and I will be able to talk to you, for the people that go follow the second call in about half an hour's time. Thanks again, and with that, I will let the operator close the call, please.

OPERATOR: Thank you. And this concludes today's conference. We thank you for your participation.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
goog : Google Inc.
   IN
ividad : Video Advertising | i838 : Advertising | i8385 : Electronic Advertising | iadv : Advertising/Public Relations/Marketing | idirma : Direct Marketing | imark : Marketing | i8395464 : Internet Search Engines | iint : Internet/Online Services
   NS
e1101 : Economic Growth | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | cmarkr : Market Research | e1115 : Employment Costs/Productivity | c32 : Advertising | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | c11 : Plans/Strategy | c15 : Performance | ntra : Transcript | c151 : Earnings | c31 : Marketing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020090730e57g00209
  


 HD
 Q1  2009 Google Q&A Session - Final
   WC
8,944 words
   PD
16 April 2009
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©009 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
OPERATOR: Good day, and welcome everyone to the Google Inc. conference call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Ms. Krista Bessinger, Director of Investor Relations. Please go ahead, ma'am.

KRISTA BESSINGER, DIRECTOR, IR, GOOGLE: Great. Thank you. Good afternoon, everyone, and welcome to Google's first quarter 2008 earnings follow-up conference call. With us are Patrick Pichette, Chief Financial Officer; and Jonathan Rosenberg, Senior Vice President of Product Management. I will quickly cover a few housekeeping items and then we'll open the call immediately to your questions. If you could, please limit yourself to one question and one follow-on.

   TD
Also please note that this call is being webcast from our Investor Relations website located at investor.Google.com. Please refer to our website for important information including our earnings press release and related slide deck and a replay of this call will be available on our website in a few hours. Please note that we routinely post important information on our Investor Relations website located at investor.Google.com. We encourage you to make use of that resource. So as a reminder, the purpose of this follow-up call is to give participants the opportunity to ask more detailed financial and product questions in an efficient and Reg FD compliant manner. Now I'll quickly cover the Safe Harbor statement.

Some of the statements we make today may be considered forward-looking and these statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially. Please note that these forward-looking statements reflect our opinions only as of the date of this presentation and we undertake no obligation to revise or publicly release the results of any revision to these forward-looking statements in light of new information or future events. Please refer to our SEC filings including our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, as well as our earnings press release for a more detailed description of the risk factors that may affect our results. Copies can be obtained from the SEC or by visiting the Investor Relations section of our website. Please note that certain financial measures we use on this call such as EPS, net income, operating margin, and operating income, are expressed on a non-GAAP basis and have been adjusted to exclude charges relating to stock based compensation. We've also adjusted our net cash provided by operating activities to remove capital expenditures which we refer to as free cash flow. Our GAAP results and GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliation can be found in our earnings press release. So with that, we're ready to take your questions. Operator.

OPERATOR: Thank you. (Operator Instructions) We'll pause for just a moment to assemble the roster. Our first question from Heath Terry from FBR.

HEATH TERRY, ANALYST, FBR: Great. Thank you. Just wondering, as we look at the operating expense lines, we obviously saw pretty big declines in R&D and sales and marketing and we know from the headcount number in those areas that there wasn't as much of a decline. Can you talk to us about how you're getting those kind of cost savings without using headcount as a reduction and then just from the increase that we saw in G&A, is there anything outside of the charges related to the change in stock-based compensation that's driving that up this quarter?

PATRICK PICHETTE, CFO, GOOGLE: So I'll answer that question. The overall, what you have seen, as we mentioned on the prior call that the biggest change from quarter-to-quarter, if you wish, and the trajectory of our costs, is, as we mentioned on the prior call, was this issue of the bonus accrual in Q4, which was kind of higher than we had originally planned because our results were better and now we're resetting the plan as what is a typical plan for the year so we're starting again fresh, and those bonus accruals which are tied to labor flow into different categories that do include R&D. It is -- it's also fair to say that across many of our categories of costs, we've continued to be quite diligent about our trajectories and you see them, that also is part of our results in a number of categories. So we continue to be prudent and that is essentially the biggest element that would have flowed through the Q4 to Q1 expenses.

HEATH TERRY: And so just for the follow-up side of that, is it fair to say that looking at that delta in the bonus accrual is a reasonable expectation of kind of what your plans are for the level business needs to be at for outperformance to happen, and us to see the same thing that we saw in the fourth quarter last year for the necessary bonus accrual catch-up?

PATRICK PICHETTE: I'm not sure I understand the question. If your question is will -- like we have now reset our plan at let's say that it's 100%, right, whatever 100% is.

HEATH TERRY: Yes.

PATRICK PICHETTE: So now we're running this year with the expectation of 100% and we hope to beat that in terms of -- because you always hope to beat your plan but that's what we're running with right now. If between now and the end of the year we see a big ramp-up in our performance, as we see that we will take appropriate accruals at that point.

HEATH TERRY: Great. That was my question.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Okay. Let's go to the next question.

OPERATOR: We'll take our next question from Jim Friedland from you Cowen and Company.

JIM FRIEDLAND, ANALYST, COWEN & COMPANY: Thanks. Wanted to ask a question on Google apps that was indicated early in the last call as a key area for investment. And at this point in the evolution, is the investment more on new features or are you starting to do more in terms of building up an enterprise sales force and are you seeing additional enterprise wins, especially in this environment on the cost savings and can you name any?

JONATHAN ROSENBERG, SVP, PRODUCT MANAGEMENT, GOOGLE: Sure. This is Jonathan. We had some pretty large deployments this quarter. Avago, which I think is the semiconductor division of HP deployed the app suite to several thousand, maybe 5,000 or 6,000 users. We had some progress in one of the big Mexican, states of Mexico too which we launched in early Q1. We also had quite a bit of progress on the EDU side with 60 colleges and universities that we signed deals with. Some of them I believe were Cornell and Georgetown. I know we signed other significant deals with T-Mobile, Fujisoft, Euro Master which I think is a subsidiary of Michelin. So I think there's significant progress there.

The kind of functionality that we're working on are some of the big -- some of the big holes that I think we still had in the suite, offline support was probably one of the more significant pieces, as was better synching with mobile devices. We're seeing pretty strong demand and traction in organizations in sort of the 3,000 to 15,000 size range. We're getting a lot of help with the reseller program that we launched and I think your observation about what is the state in a cost challenging environment, I think we are seeing that we've got a number of customers who are using the paid apps version. I think we're signing on more customers because of the cost savings relative to competitors. There's a big Forester study that showed that we're a fraction of the price of the competition even relative to their Cloud based offerings.

So I think we're doing pretty well. There's one category, manufacturing and spinoffs of large companies, seem to make a lot of sense, particularly when a company's building new infrastructure and we've got some examples. I think the Avago example is one of those and I know there are more.

JIM FRIEDLAND: Are there particular -- sorry, are there particular industries where apps are being sort of better adopted at this point versus others where maybe it's a little bit more complex and harder to get into?

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: I'm not sure I could establish any correlation in terms of the categories of industries, I think it's more a function of how the users and the IT departments are set up. Certainly, the educational institutions have made relatively quick and robust progress, as have companies that I mentioned that have sort of spun out and are out to start from scratch and build and don't have the legacy dynamics that established companies do. But I think that's really the only broad observation that I could make. It's more a function of the size of the Enterprise than it is the industry. So it's a few to several or 10,000 even 15,000.

KRISTA BESSINGER: I think we'll go to the next question, please.

JIM FRIEDLAND: Thanks.

OPERATOR: And we'll take our next question from Steve Weinstein from Pacific Crest.

STEVE WEINSTEIN, ANALYST, PACIFIC CREST: Great. Thank you very much. Just trying to understand, you had almost a full quarter still benefit from the DoubleClick acquisition and so when I look at your US business where you're reporting basically 3% growth, without DoubleClick, was the business in the US basically flat year-over-year?

PATRICK PICHETTE: I don't have those details. So I won't answer it. It is true that we have -- so if you think of the coming quarters, DoubleClick will be -- like we're finishing the first year of DoubleClick. What I can say which is a factual statement is we had in Q1, we're finishing the first full year of recognizing revenues for DoubleClick but now DoubleClick is integrated in all the display business so in Q2 you'll see the effect of that.

STEVE WEINSTEIN: Okay. As a follow-up, then, hopefully you can clarify one more thing on the G&A expenses. So if we back out basically the $46 million in expenses you kind of recognize as sort of one time, is that the fair run rate to work on right now? I guess I'm missing something about how the bonus accruals is going to change throughout the year.

PATRICK PICHETTE: No, what I've mentioned is that the bonus accrual that we took in Q4, that did not get moved into Q1 because we reset it much more than offset these additional expense pressures that we talked about.

STEVE WEINSTEIN: Much more. All right. Thanks.

KRISTA BESSINGER: Next question, please.

OPERATOR: And we'll take our next question from Richard Fetyko from Merriman and Company.

RICHARD FETYKO, ANALYST, MERRIMAN & COMPANY: If you were to compare the mobile and the display initiatives and if you include YouTube within the display, which one do you expect to be bigger opportunity the next two, three years? And then a follow-up up on that, could you elaborate more on the display ad strategy, you have the ad exchange, you have also the AdSense for display or for content that you're integrating display into. Just give us a little more color on what sort of strategy or products you're emphasizing within that display initiative.

PATRICK PICHETTE: I guess I'm not -- basically, I mean, broadly, the story and the strategy is to address the issues of and the challenges around the way display ads are bought and sold and we do fundamentally believe that those are going to change over the coming years and we're trying to bring much more measurability, the kind of efficiency that we had with Search advertising to display and make it much more efficient for both advertisers and publishers to offer better ads for users. So I mean, it's basically building the largest scale network that we can, that's going to give the best ROI to advertisers on the one side and the best yield to publishers on the other.

So if we get full integration of DoubleClick and Google products we're going to have the combination of this big leading platform for advertisers to create and manage the most effective campaign and publishers to, on the other side manage and monetize their inventories so I think it's the combination of being able to do both of those things, we expect will be very, very powerful. It's hard for me to handicap whether or not the scope of overall revenue on the display side or the mobile side will be bigger. We're obviously very, very excited about both and making strong progress in both.

RICHARD FETYKO: So I don't have a sense of what the size of those industries would look like in two or three years. All right. Thanks.

KRISTA BESSINGER: Next question, please.

OPERATOR: We'll take our next question from Doug Anmuth from Barclays Capital.

DOUG ANMUTH, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Thanks for taking my question. Can you provide some color, Patrick, on the reasons for the sequential decline in other costs of revenues?

PATRICK PICHETTE: Hold on just for a second. I'll just take a look at my notes here. A gain in other cost of revenue, if I just go through my notes, they are still tied mostly to payroll issues, rather than equipment issues or machine utilization. And so that's basically it.

DOUG ANMUTH: So just to clarify, so you're saying more related to the bonus accrual than to--?

PATRICK PICHETTE: That's correct.

DOUG ANMUTH: Depreciation?

PATRICK PICHETTE: That's correct.

DOUG ANMUTH: Thank you.

KRISTA BESSINGER: Next question, please.

OPERATOR: And we'll go next to George Askew from Stifel Nicolaus.

GEORGE ASKEW, ANALYST, STIFEL NICOLAUS: Thank you. George Askew, at Stifel Nicolaus. I'm going to address this bonus issue one more time. I'm just trying to get a sense of the size of the bonus accrual in the first quarter. If you look at it as a percentage of sales, for example, in the first quarter '09 compared to the year-ago quarter, first quarter '08, was it materially different?

PATRICK PICHETTE: I don't have the answer to that question. But I think again, in general terms, if you think of your modeling, I think looking at run rates from a year ago or may be useful to get a sense of magnitude versus Q4 because Q4 as I said was sufficiently different and actually it does make a difference between Q4 and Q1.

GEORGE ASKEW: Okay. Okay. Fair enough. And then secondly, as a follow-up, there's media reports hinting this late this afternoon here that YouTube is partnering to stream full length movies, TV shows, et cetera, a redesign happening there. Is there -- what can you tell us about this kind of news on YouTube and the redesign that appears to be imminent?

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: This is Jonathan. Certainly, what we're hearing from both viewers and advertisers is that they want premium content and the premium viewing experience and we want YouTube to be as comprehensive as Search there and we want to attract as much professional quality content as we can and advertisers as we can of all sizes and types. I believe there's a conference or some additional details on the Sony issues coming out directly from the folks at YouTube. So you might want to take a look and watch for that. They should have all of the details about the Sony relationship and dynamics from Sam Bruno.

GEORGE ASKEW: Got you. Okay. Fair enough. Thank you.

KRISTA BESSINGER: Next question.

OPERATOR: And we'll take our next question from Mark Mahaney from Citigroup.

MARK MAHANEY, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Just one quick financial goals question. In past historic years I think there was a goal and I know it was stated at Investor Days in the past to simply expand pro forma operating income sequentially as long as possible. Is that still a goal within the Company, that happened this quarter but is the way as you think about the financial goals, is just to expand that sequentially going forward, that non-GAAP operating income?

PATRICK PICHETTE: So two points. I wasn't there in the old days when whoever who have said what. But certainly under my rule, we don't give any guidance going forward on any of these dimensions. All I think it's important that people understand is we are -- we're demonstrating responsible management over our resources. You should consider as you think of your modeling, you know, the fact that we talked at length on the previous call that our revenues are seasonal and you just got to think of our expenses as much more of a kind of fixed cost. They're not seasonal in a way. So our labor is not seasonal and our expenses are not. Because we're still growing. So that's the mindset that you should apply to your modeling.

MARK MAHANEY: Thank you.

KRISTA BESSINGER: Next question, please.

OPERATOR: We'll go next to [Sumit Suna] rom JMP Securities.

SUMIT SUNA, ANALYST, JMP SECURITIES: Yes, thank you. Couple of questions. If you could talk about the networks business, understandably you've been taking some initiatives over the last couple of quarters to clean it out. When can we start to see improvement in that business, when you end these initiatives and then I have a housekeeping follow-up.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Could you clarify exactly -- are you asking about AdSense for Search? What exactly are you asking?

MARK MAHANEY: The Google networks business, I'm just looking at that, kind of open it up over here. It was down sequentially a little bigger than it was down last quarter. So I'm talking about that, you had some -- you were getting rid of some arbitrage, players, things like that. When are those activities -- when do you think that ends?

PATRICK PICHETTE: Some of that relates to partner issues. Some of it is the network clean-up. I think that to date, the clean-up has been largely successful, but it's kind of an ongoing cat and mouse game, just like e-mail spam. So I don't think I would necessarily want to suggest that the clean-up issue has been fixed. I think we did start engaging pretty aggressively in those efforts last year and we've made great progress. I think the other piece that you may see is there's probably some FX issues and other partners that we have that our built in there that are seeing the same kind of economic issues that we have as well as having to sort of understand which partners are in the overall mix, which is a factor. We don't give you the full list of those dynamics.

MARK MAHANEY: Sure. In terms of the follow-up, can you talk about the correct share count to use. You had repriced some options. Would these become dilutive any time during the year?

PATRICK PICHETTE: Restate the question for me, please.

MARK MAHANEY: You repriced some options, some underwater options, do they become part of the diluted share base now that they are in the money? They were priced at my sense is about 306.

PATRICK PICHETTE: No, not any time soon is the answer. Very small, very small. So you wouldn't count on them.

MARK MAHANEY: Okay. Thank you very much.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Just to complement Jonathan on the -- to come back to the issue of the network, I mean, there is a difference between obviously AdSense for search and AdSense for content and clearly two types of businesses with two different kind of rationales, if you think in the behavior and the content side obviously branding oriented display campaigns as I mentioned a bit earlier. So on that side, obviously remaining challenging in Q1 because those advertisers kind of typically will shift to more relative to their performance based advertising if they have a chance and tighter budgets. So really a tale of two cities between the AdSense for Search and AdSense for content. Just to complement Jonathan's.

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: I agree. That's correct.

SUMIT SUNA: Sure. Thank you.

KRISTA BESSINGER: Next question, please.

OPERATOR: And we'll take James Mitchell from Goldman Sachs.

JAMES MITCHELL, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Hi, thank you for taking my question. Can you talk about the impact of no longer providing rebates to agencies on your revenue growth in the international business?

PATRICK PICHETTE: Hold on just for a second.

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: You're referring to the best practices funding?

JAMES MITCHELL: Indeed.

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: Which we've phased out over the course of the last year. Patrick wasn't here for all of that, so.

PATRICK PICHETTE: What would be specific, James, in your question, like what would you like? What do you want?

JAMES MITCHELL: There was something that materially impacted the first quarter or is it something that because it was phasing over the last year, it's been more--?

PATRICK PICHETTE: No, it wouldn't have been material.

JAMES MITCHELL: Okay. Thank you.

KRISTA BESSINGER: Next question, please.

OPERATOR: We'll go next to Youssef Squali from Jefferies & Company.

YOUSSEF SQUALI, ANALYST, JEFFERIES & COMPANY: Thank you. So just to reiterate on the BPF, our understanding is that a number of agencies were still getting a fair amount of money, somewhere between 6 and 7% back as of Q4 and starting January 1, that went down to zero. So you're saying that the year on year decline of 9% call it in the UK I guess was not materially impacted by that?

PATRICK PICHETTE: That's correct. For total revenue, you may have had one agency for whom it would have mattered for that agency but in the total of our revenues it wouldn't have been material.

YOUSSEF SQUALI: Clarification. Why was DoubleClick revenues weaker this quarter? I think on the prior call, you kind of talked about that but you didn't kind of provide the reasons why.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Well, I think there's two elements on it. One is seasonality because if you think of DoubleClick and Q4 it's been a very strong quarter for the display advertising related to the Christmas, certainly in North America which is a big element of the DoubleClick and then second is the entire economic environment right now is putting a lot of pressure on that business. So it's the combination of these two things that really we're seeing in the market.

YOUSSEF SQUALI: Okay. That's helpful. Thanks, Patrick.

PATRICK PICHETTE: You're welcome.

KRISTA BESSINGER: And next question, please.

OPERATOR: We'll take our next question from Christa Quarles from Thomas Weisel Partners.

CHRISTA QUARLES, ANALYST, THOMAS WEISEL PARTNERS: I was wondering if you guys to dig into some of the mobile data a little bit more. I guess what I'm seeking is in this example that you have in Japan, do you have a sort of RPS relative to what you're seeing in other markets in terms of increase? I listened to your mobile webinars where you guided advertisers to bid maybe 4X with their bidding on the PC, simply because there are fewer chances to be shown. I mean, is there I guess any quantification whatsoever you can provide around how monetization is ultimately different on the mobile relative to the PC?

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: I think it's really too early. It's too early to say. I think that we -- we certainly see the promise, we think. I mean, if you're asking specifically about Japan or are you asking--?

CHRISTA QUARLES: Well, I guess what I'm trying to ultimately do is quantify. I thought Eric's comment was really interesting that you guys are now, what was it, 8% mobile browsing share.

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: I think I said that.

CHRISTA QUARLES: Or you said it. Yes. Somebody said it. Which is the first time I had seen that data out of you guys. So again, trying to quantify what this opportunity could ultimately mean and if monetization ultimately becomes even more intriguing, interesting in a mobile context relative to a PC one, then people might get more excited.

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: Yes. I personally think mobile is going to be very significant. I talked in my prepared remarks about how powerful the phones are and the degree to which search traffic is up over five times in the last couple of years. It is the case that nearly 80% of our mobile search queries come from outside of the US so a lot of the lessons that we're learning at this point are lessons that we're learning from markets like Japan to some extent, China and India.

I think the thing you really have to look at is if we've got 100 million, 175 million SmartPhones shipping in 2009 and they all have this much, much different, very rich mobile browsing experience, you're basically talking about something that didn't exist on phones a couple of years ago. They didn't have the processing power. They didn't have the battery life. They didn't have the rich display. They didn't have an impact mechanism that worked well. We didn't have the kind of fast networks that we have today and we're now seeing many people, many developers understand that the web is this wonderful platform for these mobile apps and they could be fast. They could be location aware. They can offer a rich experience and even work offline and that I think is fundamentally going to change the whole value equation with these devices. And you're going to see that users are much more likely in my opinion in the long run to consummate a transaction against an ad that they were served on a mobile phone because they're much -- they're probably clicking on that ad or interested in that ad because they're out somewhere and ready to go consummate a transaction.

So I think there's lots of reasons to think about where the business is going and where these phones are going, which make us very excited. There's not a great deal of data yet on what the pace of revenue growth will be there. Other than what we're seeing in Japan, which is very promising.

CHRISTA QUARLES: Just want to follow-up on the mobile side, you guys have an investment in Clearwire. Obviously there's broad based concerns there, would you guys ante-up further if they needed additional cash or I guess what's the -- is there any plan around that investment?

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: The lawyer across the table is telling me to tell you we don't comment on future potential investments.

CHRISTA QUARLES: All right.

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: One thing I would actually urge you to think about when you look at some of these other markets like Japan is that in some of these markets there are many users who only access the web through their mobile devices and that makes the dynamic very, very different. And of course, Japan is far ahead in terms of mobile consumption than other markets so it's an interesting market to look at in terms of where I think the trends are going to be.

CHRISTA QUARLES: Got it. Thanks, guys.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thank you, Christa.

KRISTA BESSINGER: Next question, please.

OPERATOR: We'll go next to Justin Post from Merrill Lynch.

JUSTIN POST, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: Hi, I apologize if you've already addressed this but one of the things I see really interesting on YouTube is the quantity of searches and it's becoming one of the leading search engines out there and I think you've rolled out some new ads, what is the click through rates on some of those video advertisements that are showing up in sponsored search results? Are you happy with that and do you see that as maybe one of the bigger opportunities on YouTube and if not, what really is working right now?

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: I think we're still in the experimental stage on a lot of this. There's no doubt from a traffic perspective, the YouTube phenomenon continues. We're definitely hitting on an ongoing basis new playback and upload highs. We're basically at this point looking at multiple different ad formats. We're certainly monetizing hundreds of millions of videos in the US every month, which more than the total of US monthly views on any other online video site. We don't give you the specifics in terms of click through rates but we've got a whole bunch of new form and new content. We just launched in-stream ads on long form content so if you do a query on YouTube for Star Trek Charlie X which is one of the episodes you'll see an example of some of the new ads that we have there. Omid mentioned the home page format ad that we have which we're very, very happy with the results on which basically is a masthead that goes across the top. I think today it's Frank 2 and yesterday it was Volvo. We've also got the promoted videos which we launched last quarter which are doing pretty well but I can't give you any more details on the click through rates.

JUSTIN POST: Okay. And can you tell us how the engine is doing as far as profitability? Any thoughts on margins? Are they getting better or worse? And then just a follow-up on DoubleClick. Are all those revenues going in the licensing line and did display help your overall growth rate, the 6%, was display something that grew faster than that and helped the overall growth rate?

PATRICK PICHETTE: So I think on the display side, it does go, right, through the licensing line. So it does and then you can back out if it does make -- DoubleClick, sorry, yes, DoubleClick does go through that line.

JUSTIN POST: So we can kind of back that out and see how it's affecting the overall growth rate.

PATRICK PICHETTE: I guess so.

JUSTIN POST: Okay. Great. Thank you.

KRISTA BESSINGER: Next question, please.

OPERATOR: We'll go next to Jeffrey Lindsay from Sanford Bernstein.

JEFFREY LINDSAY, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: Thank you. Just want to ask about the large reduction in traffic acquisition cost. This was due to mix shift or is it that you're rolling off expensive deals? What I'm interested in is how sustainable is that, that trend, and then if you could just mention -- I don't know if it's public or not, just how long you've got to run on the current AOL and Ask deals?

PATRICK PICHETTE: Okay. So the short answer is it is mix. And we obviously don't comment on any deals that we have in our pipeline. I think it's also, if you look at our Q4 '08 versus Q1 '09, our Google TAC versus Google total revenue on the Google side, it's gone up slightly and that's -- if you think of -- there's the mix within the category and then there's mix between categories and on the Google side, obviously it reflects the growth in our revenue from tool bars and browser distribution agreements. So that's how I would think about it.

KRISTA BESSINGER: Next question, please.

OPERATOR: We'll take our next question from Jeetil Patel from Deutsche Bank.

JEETIL PATEL, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Couple of questions. Broadly two different questions. If you adjust for FX and you look at your CPCs, they look like they were still up or flattish on a year on year basis when adjusting for FX but not as much as before. Can you talk about I guess conversion rate coming off and I guess in particular, which regions are more -- are you seeing more pronounced changes in CPC or conversion rates out there that could fluctuate the overall CPC trend. And then second, I guess it looks like the UK obviously fell pretty quickly in terms of revenue, constant currency and then came back. US it seems like more of a steady decline but holding its own and rest of world is kind of a mixed bag. I guess can you characterize where do you think we are in the rest of world camp in general in terms of kind going through this recession and seeing that impact in some of your regions? Is it probably early stages similar to US trend or does it look like it will pace similar to the UK? Thanks.

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: So this is Jonathan. I mean, we don't really break out the components of the RPM equation so I'm not sure I'm going to give you a whole lot of color here. You can't derive price directly from paid clicks growth. In the total amount of information that we give you, I think I did say on the call that some of what we're seeing on CPC is mix issues. It's particularly mix issues from the smaller emerging markets. It's certainly an FX component. It's certainly the lower dollar items and the issue of conversions being relatively lower than they had in the past and as Eric mentioned the auction working and advertisers, advertisers lowering their bids. So I think that that is -- those are components. We certainly had seen a lot of CPC growth in the quarters before the economy collapsed. But I can't give you any more detail than that.

JEETIL PATEL: I guess in some of the nascent regions that are still ramping, if you open up more distribution or more coverage, are you seeing bid prices improve like you saw over the course of the last couple years here or in some of the more mature markets or is it a different dynamic in some of these emerging markets?

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: So I think that we're seeing different because a lot of those markets are sort of at the more nascent stages of the growth rate so if you sort of map them against what we saw in the US or the UK which was actually the leading market and said they're N years behind us, many of them are on growth trajectories that are strong but obviously they're being, just as we were a few years ago, but obviously that's being dampened by the economic dynamics just like things are here and of course you also have the FX effects there too.

KRISTA BESSINGER: Next question, please.

OPERATOR: We'll go next to Ross Sandler from RBC Capital Markets.

ROSS SANDLER, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Hey, guys. One kind of high level question and then one or -- one or two accounting questions. Follow-up on the pharma ads issue earlier. So looks like the FDA may actually require all these pharma advertisers to add all the disclosures to their ad creatives. Is that a fairly easy task for Google to increase the available character length on those particular ads or is that going to be a little bit more challenging, given the complicated technology?

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: Yes, I'm not sure what we're actually going to do there. I'm not convinced that we won't be able to come to some agreement in terms of what the right solution is with respect to some of these issues. Certainly, it wouldn't be ideal if we had to modify the user interface to accommodate substantially more information. Can it be done? Yes. Is it easy? Maybe not.

ROSS SANDLER: Okay.

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: So we're going to find a way with the advertisers to make this work in one way or another and you could do it within the existing creatives if you had to.

ROSS SANDLER: I mean, just a quick follow-up on that. Are the advertisers actually still doing stuff right now or are they completely on hold until this issue gets resolved or can you not comment on that?

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: I believe there are some things that have been shut off but I don't know all of the details about what subset of the activity there has been shut off. Some of them are I think attempting to change relative to the new standard which they need to try to address. It's not really as big a deal I think as folks are making it. I know that I said that health was a vertical that was doing particularly well and pharma is important but it's really a pretty small segment of the whole vertical.

ROSS SANDLER: That's good color. And then Patrick, if we can just get a little more clarification on the accounting around the hedging program, kind of going forward. So the way it was explained before, was an 18 month kind of rolling forward of these contracts. So why did we see the one-time boost in the first quarter and are we to expect more of that or is it -- how do we think about the accounting around the hedging program?

PATRICK PICHETTE: Okay. So the fundamental issue that you have is it's not one-time. It just happens that as every quarter we set up another tranche of hedges. Some for the immediate short-term that we don't have covered yet, but covered more and all the way to 18 months out. Think of it as kind of you're building the equivalent of a ladder every quarter, kind of filling the pipeline as every quarter retires so in Q3 of '08, we happened to -- that's when we actually put originally the first set of pound hedges that we built over a couple of quarters and now we'll have a full 18 month ladder built over the coming quarter. So that we'll just be rolling that entire set of hedges every quarter going forward but in Q3 we put in a bunch of them for the next quarter and the next quarter and the decreasing rate, not rates but exposure levels all the way down to 18 months and it happened that the ones we put in Q3, because of where the pound went, gave us a substantial gain for Q1.

I mean, next quarter, we'll have more hedges that will kind of come to fruition and we'll have to decide what to do with the options that we've got. It's not a one time item. The real item that happened is the ones that we had put in September because of the wild fluctuation and variability of the pound over the last six months, we just happened to gain a lot. Had we had, I'll give the extreme other case where assume that the pound had gone nowhere, had been very stable through the entire period, right? We would have spent the money and we would have had no benefits because there's nothing to capture because there's no volatility. So it really was driven, the last six months, and -- in a way, I really feel for the investment community and the analysts trying to run these models. I really do feel for everybody because you have such high volatility in the last kind of nine months and because of that is compounded by the FAS 133, that says well, if you're in or you're out, you've got to book it all or not the minute that you get a decent amount of volatility. It just swings the numbers all over the place.

So what we have to think about, from our perspective, is we continue to have a very stable hedging program in place. It continues to deliver us the value when there's high volatility which is what happened and, we, because of the forced mark-to-market you have a decent amount of numbers floating around but shouldn't worry about that too much.

ROSS SANDLER: That's helpful. One last question, I promise the last one. On the bonus accrual issue, so a couple years ago Google used to accrue for bonuses with kind of a progressive growth manner so 1Q the accrual was kind of the lowest and it ramped up throughout the year and 4Q was the highest and then in 2Q '07 you went to more of a flat quarterly accrual program. Take $100 spread it out over the course of four quarters, that is going to be 25, 25, 25, 25 or does it start at 10 go up higher on the bonus accrual issue.

PATRICK PICHETTE: We tried to, if you think about it, we tried to -- as they -- when you start the year, you have a plan in place and that plan you accrue according to what you think the year's going to unfold and that's all we do and then as the year unfolds, we would if we had more information to raise the accrual, would do so. So that's how we plan the year. That's why the number has gone down relative to Q4 because I mean, if there's a good proof of how uncertain an unchartered territory we live in, look at Q4 and our results in Q4 and the economic activity that was really in all of the turmoil that was happening, we had a very strong revenue quarter in Q4. And that created a bonus accrual that, if you had thought even, kind of September or August, right, we hadn't foreseen. So we're very happy with the results and therefore happy to take the accrual and celebrate with all the Googlers and now we're back to our regular territory, of here's the year and here's the plan the way we go. That's why variability. Because the world is very uncertain and we're living through it right now, all of us together.

ROSS SANDLER: Thanks. That's very helpful.

KRISTA BESSINGER: Next question, please.

OPERATOR: We'll take our next question from Sandeep Aggarwal from Collins Stewart.

SANDEEP AGGARWAL, ANALYST, COLLINS STEWART: Thank you for taking my questions. Jonathan, one question is, we are seeing little bit higher traction for Search engine optimization and so question to you is does that -- how does that basically -- does that mean the ecosystem of paid search is expanding or does this mean there's some potential threat to the paid search campaign? And then I have one follow-up question.

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: I guess I'm not sure what is the perceived threat that you're articulating, as a result of search engine optimizers?

SANDEEP AGGARWAL: Well, if I'm running a Google ad campaign and then I'm also running searching an optimization, Google receiving the money I'm running more, optimizing my website, landing pages, et cetera, in that case am I likely to cut my paid search budget and I look at someone for search and payment optimization?

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: I honestly don't have any idea. You're basically saying is there going to be a shift in AdWords spending, spending on SEOs. And I don't know.

SANDEEP AGGARWAL: Okay. And just one question, Patrick. On a sale team side, just one thing. I think too many things happened too quickly. Is there -- I know Omid tried to address some of those things in the previous call you hosted but is there any of the read through in terms of is there -- if this is -- should we expect some more changes in the sales structure, sales channel or anything else of that sort?

PATRICK PICHETTE: We have no plans right now. I think that the work that was done by the team was very well done and that's why, as you can imagine, for any organization, the last thing you want is announcement every two weeks of changes. That just drives everybody nuts. And so we had an opportunity in the sales group to do the things that we announced and so we did announce them a few weeks ago and right now we have no more plans. I mean, it's obvious that the world continues to be quite uncertain. Right? So in that kind of world, you've got to stay flexible but right now we have no other plans.

SANDEEP AGGARWAL: And just one thing about, is there going to be any future revenue contribution from that discontinued audio business?

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: Is there going to be any--?

PATRICK PICHETTE: No.

SANDEEP AGGARWAL: Okay. Thank you very much.

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: Sandeep, I'm just thinking about your original question a little bit and I think the one comment that I could offer is I don't tend to think of these advertisers that we have as having fixed budgets and I think it's kind of unlikely that someone who is running an AdWords campaign where they're measuring the ROI that on an incremental basis is experiencing positive ROI from each incremental AdWords click. It seems unlikely that they would throttle that budget back if they're making positive gross margin on each of the AdWords clicks. So what you're proposing seems unlikely to me but plausible.

SANDEEP AGGARWAL: Okay. Sure. Thank you so much.

KRISTA BESSINGER: We have time for two more questions, operator.

OPERATOR: Thank you. We'll take our next question from Brian Bolan from [Start Event & Company].

BRIAN BOLAN, ANALYST, START EVENT & COMPANY: Hi. I want to touch back on the question or the idea that Eric brought up, the ROIs moving more into Google's favor. As we look at the moving parts in there, we just look at like clicks and searches, costs and conversions, with the market pretty much moving cost lower, isn't that going to be the major factor or what is really driving the ROIs up anything more than just the costs coming down as advertisers moving out of the space? And is there anything that will, other than keeping the costs low, allow for advertisers to actually really stage up and spike into the market to push ROIs higher?

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: I think really the main thing that drives ROI is to the degree to which we're able to develop better ads and ad systems, that target more efficiently and are more -- deliver an ad such that if the user clicks on it, they're more likely to consummate a transaction. I think the conversion rate is probably the most significant component and that's a function of the targeting of the ad and the creative on the ad. Also, some of the tools that we offer with respect to optimizing users website, which analytics and the website optimizer, things that allow the advertiser to get higher conversion rates on their site. I think that's basically the kind of things that we're going to do that will improve, that will continue to improve ROI.

BRIAN BOLAN: Okay. And you talked about the optimizer there. About what percent of customers are using the optimizer?

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: I don't think that we've said. You'd have to talk to customers directly yourself. There is a blog post if you look at -- if you type conversion optimizer on Google where we describe some of the details of a study that we ran with a bunch of advertisers from which I got the percentage improvement and different pieces but we don't release that number. A pretty large portion of our advertisers are using some of the various -- some subset of the various tools that I've mentioned, the website optimizer, the key word piece, the conversion optimizer, Google analytic.

BRIAN BOLAN: Great. Thanks a lot.

KRISTA BESSINGER: Last question, operator.

OPERATOR: Thank you. We'll take our final question from Robert Haley from Gabelli.

ROBERT HALEY, ANALYST, GABELLI & CO.: Great. Thanks. Wanted to just ask one question on your paid click growth. And if you could talk about what's driving that growth, whether it's growth in the number of advertisers using Google or maybe talk about paid click growth on a per advertiser basis. And how that's impacted by changes in budgets, allocated to Google, versus changes in consumer click-through behavior?

PATRICK PICHETTE: I'll make just a broad statement and then let Jonathan complement if you wish. There is -- I mean, our traffic continues to grow. I mean, so if you think of general principles of what's going in our favor, our traffic continues to grow and we continue to have paid clicks to our network. There are different effects within that, which obviously at the macro level, if you're in a mature market like the US versus an emerging market like India, you get mix issues, you get vertical issues and you get value issues and that's basically how we think about it and manage it. I don't know if Jonathan you have additional information you want to share or if I missed something big.

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: I mean, Patrick got the biggest thing, it's clearly query growth is the primary driver there and beyond that I don't think we really go into detail on the other components of the equation. I don't think that there's significant activity with advertisers withdrawing themselves from a budgeting perspective all together. I would echo what Omid said there, that to the extent we are impacted by budget reductions, it tends to be the larger organizations where a CFO, somebody in Patrick's role basically says we want to cut budgets N percent across the Company and that impacts the CMO. That's much less a factor in the small and medium businesses and interestingly, it's less a factor even in some very large companies that really understand the concept that Omid mentioned about Google being a sales channel as opposed to a marketing expense and I would take to heart the comments about the auto industry where I think you're otherwise seeing the relative shrinkage in overall marketing budgets and yet some robust growth in paid search and online advertising.

So I think there is still value. I think we're seeing a lot of value in terms of shift in markets like that one from a budget perspective. By the way, the one other obvious area there is I don't think you're seeing much budget reduction at all in the pure play online companies who really understand and measure the metrics of a lot of this traffic. I think they're much less budget -- they're much less prone to adjusting their budget.

KRISTA BESSINGER: Great. So thank you everyone for your time today. If you have any further follow-up questions, please don't hesitate to contact either myself or Maria. We're happy to answer your questions, and thanks again for your time.

OPERATOR: And this concludes today's conference. We thank you for your participation. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
goog : Google Inc.
   IN
i8395464 : Internet Search Engines | iint : Internet/Online Services
   NS
c11 : Plans/Strategy | nitv : Interview | ntra : Transcript | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020090430e54g001rx
  


 HD
 Q1  2009 Google Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
10,293 words
   PD
16 April 2009
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©009 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
OPERATOR: Good day and welcome, everyone, to the Google Inc. conference call. This call is being recorded. At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Ms. Krista Bessinger, Director of Investor Relations. Please go ahead, ma'am.

   TD
KRISTA BESSINGER, DIRECTOR OF IR, GOOGLE: Good afternoon, everyone, and welcome to today's first quarter 2009 earnings conference call. With us are Eric Schmidt, Chief Executive Officer; Patrick Pichette, Chief Financial Officer; Jonathan Rosenberg, Senior Vice President of Product Management; and Omid Kordestani, Senior Advisor to the Office of the CEO and Founders. Eric, Patrick, and Jonathan will provide us with their thoughts on the quarter and then Omid will join us for Q&A. Please note that this call is being webcast from our Investor Relations website located at investor.google.com. Please refer to our website for important information including our earnings press release issued a few minutes ago along with slides that accompany today's prepared remarks. A replay of this call will also be available on our website in a few hours. Please note that we routinely post important information on our Investor Relations website located at investor.google.com and we encourage you to make use of that resource.

As a reminder, we're continuing with a two call structure this quarter. First we will host our traditional strategic overview and Q&A with the usual format, followed by a second call which is effectively an extended Q&A session, giving the opportunity for participants to ask more detailed financial and product questions in efficient and [Reg SEC compliant] manner. The second call will begin at 3 PM and will also be webcast from our Investor Relations website.

Now let me quickly cover the Safe Harbor. Some of the statements we make today may be considered forward-looking, including statements regarding investments in our core business and growth agenda, expected performance of aspects of our business, operational efficiency and costs, and our expected level of capital expenditures. These statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially. Please note that these forward-looking statements reflect our opinions only as of the date of this presentation, and we undertake no obligation to revise or publicly release the results of any revision to these forward-looking statements in light of new information or future events. Please refer to our SEC filings including our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31st, 2008, as well as our earnings press release for a more detailed description of the risk factors that may affect our results. Copies can be obtained from the SEC or by visiting the Investor Relations section of our website.

Also please note that certain financial measures we use on this call such as EPS, net income, operating margin, and operating income are expressed on a non-GAAP basis and have been adjusted to exclude charges related to stock-based compensation. We have also adjusted our net cash provided by operating activities to remove capital expenditures, which we refer to as free cash flow. Our GAAP results and GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliation can be found in our earnings press release. With that, it is my pleasure to turn the call over to Eric.

ERIC SCHMIDT, CHAIRMAN & CEO, GOOGLE: Thank you very much, Krista, and good afternoon to everybody. Welcome to our first quarter earnings call. I'm going to talk obviously about the big picture. Patrick will then run through the financials. Jonathan will put together not just products but also a whole bunch of insights about advertising.

Despite the tough economic climate, we think Google had a good quarter. This in the context of GDP falling over 6% in Q4, US consumer confidence falling one-third in February, retail sales falling [9.5%] a year year over year in March. Google revenues were up 6% year-over-year on the back of continued strong traffic growth, down only 3% quarter-over-quarter on a revenue basis. You look at the economic situation, we're still basically in an unchartered territory. And I think that's the frank statement everybody wants to talk about in the business world today. The current economic environment, which everybody on the call is very, very familiar with, remains tough. No company is recession-proof. Google is absolutely feeling the impact. Users are still searching, but they're buying less.

Ultimately, what that really means is the ads are converting less. More window and comparison shopping, purchasing lower priced goods. In other words, users are doing the right thing. They're doing what you would expect them to do, given the enormous economic changes around us.

So advertisers are still spending, but they're lowering their bids to manage their ROI, behaving correctly in our view. One way to say that is our advertising model is working. The user and advertising behavior we're seeing is entirely rational. And the auction where we base our whole business is working to deliver great value for both. So we think Google is now well placed for the recovery as it occurs or when it occurs -- obviously we don't know exactly when -- and the shift continues, as in the shift to online, continues to give us a real advantage with users migrating to the web and advertisers investing online where ROI is the highest. It appears that the shift to online ROI is movement into our category, is outpacing any on a relative basis, any loss of economic activity -- we benefit from that.

From a prioritization perspective at Google our priorities remain unchanged, basically long-term growth. Internet growth continues. Our goal is to grow the business and be an innovator. In our core business, search -- making it easier and faster to find things globally. We're doing well there. Search advertising ads on new properties -- for example image search, Google finance, all of those Jonathan will talk about.

We also believe that there is growth in new businesses based on superior technical insights. In display, for example, you have highly fragmented market with multiple buyers, sellers, and data sources. By using our technology, we can create an integrated product that will really improve the display ad model. Look at the success of Android and the mobile space in general. By improving the mobile web experience, people search many, many times more than they did in previous mobile devices. We benefit both in terms of end user happiness as well as ultimately a strong revenue growth from that area.

In Enterprise, the same thing. People are no longer thinking of IT as these expensive boxes, but rather trying to apply the consumer market principles to IT, giving increased efficiency as well as higher productivity. So in that sense, our mission is unchanged. One thing that has changed is that we have just announced that after ten years of managing our global sales operations, Omid Kordestani has decided to hand things over to Nikesh. Omid's going to stay with us. He's going to become Senior Advisor, Office of the CFO and Founder and he's going to be working on some new business opportunities for us. And Nikesh will be responsible for all revenue consumer operations, marketing, and partnerships. When I travel, when I spend time within the Google context, I see the hand -- in fact brilliance of Omid and how he built the business of Google. And he will certainly -- it's impossible in an hour, let alone a minute, to talk about the level of contribution that he's had. As a business founder at Google, no one is better placed to advise us on issues like future revenue growth for Google. Nikesh, of course, also with us for many years, running our European operations, right person to take on everything to the next level.

So putting it into context, good quarter for Google despite tough overall economic conditions. We're still in unchartered territory and I want to remind everybody that we're heading into the Q2, Q3 seasonally weaker quarters. We say this every year. It's no change. We expect that will happen as well. First quarter has demonstrated the resilience of our business model in a very severe global recession and we're going to continue to invest for the long-term, as we should and as we will. Patrick, would you like to proceed and take us through the financials?

PATRICK PICHETTE, CFO, GOOGLE: Good afternoon, everyone. So as Eric has already covered, we are continuing to manage the business well in what is a difficult economic environment. Gross revenue was up 6% year-over-year to $5.5 billion, mostly due to the good performance of google.com. And this despite two strong headwinds in fact -- the economy, but also the strengthening of the US dollar in the last 12 months. Google.com was up 9% year-over-year to $3.7 billion, driven primarily by traffic growth. AdSense business on the other hand was down 3% year-over-year to $1.6 billion, driven by several factors. Year-over-year growth on the AdSense for search was impacted by the continued cleanup of low quality network partners that began late in Q1 of last year, FX, and general economic weaknesses, along with other quality and ROI initiatives implemented in Q1 of this year.

On the AdSense for content side, branding oriented display campaigns remained challenging in Q1 as our advertisers slowed their spend relative to the performance based advertising. Global aggregate paid click growth remained relatively strong, however, up 17% year-over-year and 3% quarter-over-quarter. The US growth was also fairly healthy year-over-year, given the challenging economic environment, with revenues up 4% to $2.6 billion, even if down 7% quarter-over-quarter, reflecting the normal seasonal trend that we see in Q1. Again, exacerbated by the weak economy.

Our international revenue accounted for 52% of our total revenues, or $2.9 billion. The UK was down 9% year-over-year to $733 million, but up 7% quarter-over-quarter. We did see a seasonal uptick in Q1 which is normal pattern for the UK, but not as much as in prior years due to weakness in for example travel and finance, two very economically sensitive verticals. Note that our UK results in Q1 also benefited from a significant gain from the expiration from a set of pound hedges that were put in place in Q3 of 2008. The rest of EMEA is beginning to experience the slowdown seen in other countries. Ireland and Spain were clearly weaker, while Germany was a relative bright spot as well as Benelux. Outside the US and Europe, China and Brazil performed reasonably well with relatively strong growth year-over-year.

Let me now turn to expenses. Google may be an unconventional company, but our Q1 margin demonstrates Google's responsible management in light of the economic situation we all face. Q4 versus Q1 could be summarized as continued tight cost management, but also lower labor costs primarily as we reset our Company bonus plan for 2009 in the first quarter. Moving down the P&L, traffic acquisition costs were $1.4 billion, or 27% of total advertising revenue and roughly flat with Q4. Other costs of revenues decreased $41 million from Q4 to $666 million, which included $13 million in stock-based compensation. This decrease was driven by non-data center related expenses, primarily payroll again. And finally, all other operating expenses totaled $1.52 billion, including approximately $265 million in stock-based compensation.

Please note that in Q1, our expenses include $26 million related to the exit of our audio and print ad business, as well as severance costs related to the layoffs announced, all of which impacted G&A. Also in G&A is $20 million related to a proposed legal settlement in the Hanson case. That said, expenses improved significantly from Q4, reflecting lower labor costs, as I already mentioned, primarily due to the reset of the Company bonus plan at the beginning of the year. This favorability in labor expense more than offset the various costs described above in G&A. And as a result, non-GAAP operating profit, which excludes the stock-based compensation, increased to $2.2 million in Q1, resulting in a healthy non-GAAP operating profit margin of 39.2%.

Note also, however, that while we maintained focus on our prudent approach to managing expenses, and as Eric noted, we continue to fully fund our strategic growth areas -- including, for example, investments in display, apps and mobile. And we're still hiring, but only in the critical areas. We had approximately 20,000 full-time employees at the end of Q1, roughly flat from Q4. We also announced in late March we'll eliminate approximately 200 positions in sales and marketing. Please note, however, that these reductions are not reflected in our ending headcount numbers for Q1. Finally, and also important to note, with slower growth rates in this challenging environment, seasonality in our results are obviously more apparent such as what Eric mentioned a typical summer slowdown of Q2 and Q3.

Let me quickly turn to cash management. Other income and expenses was $6 million for Q1, down from $17 million last quarter. We continue to manage our portfolio responsibly and adopted a conservative approach to investing. This means that we are recognizing somewhat lower yields on our investments in Q1 relative to Q4. Also, we realized gains on investments. Our realized gains on investments were $32 million. More important to note is the high volatility relative to the options strike prices, which required this quarter the acceleration of our hedging expenses as per the details of FAS 133 rules. So in consequence, these accounting rules required us to recognize close to double the expense or $91 million related to our hedging programs versus Q4 of $49 million.

Our hedging program continues to work well. We're pleased that our cash flow hedges program allowed us to recognize a benefit of approximately $154 million [to] revenue this quarter. Before hedging, the recent strength of the US dollar relative to other currencies had a negative impact of $120 million on revenue in Q1 compared to the prior quarter, and $429 million compared to the prior year. Also, as I mentioned before, our UK results for Q1 benefited from a significant gain from the expiration of some pound hedges.

We're still generating very strong operating cash flow at $2.2 billion for Q1. CapEx for the quarter was $263 million and related primarily to our data center operations. This is down significantly from prior period. Google will continue to make significant investments to support our core business, and please keep in mind that CapEx can be lumpy from quarter-to-quarter. Free cash flow also remains strong at just shy of $2 billion.

So in summary, we're pleased with our Q1 results, which illustrate the resiliency of our business model as well as the prudent management of our expenses in these difficult times. While we remain focused on operational efficiencies, we're not cutting any corners on our growth agenda and continue to fully fund both our core business and our growth businesses. Finally, I wish to reiterate that our revenues typically exhibit seasonality for Q2, and while our revenues may be seasonal, obviously our expenses are not as seasonal. With that, I'd like to thank you for your time and I'll turn it over to Jonathan for his thoughts on the quarter.

JONATHAN ROSENBERG, SVP, PRODUCT MANAGEMENT, GOOGLE: Okay. Thanks, Patrick. So in the current economy, Google is more focused than ever on prioritizing resources to our next multi billion dollar business. That of course is search based advertising. And to find more revenue we need to make sure that we monetize our searches judiciously and to only do that in ways that benefit both advertisers and users. You have to understand that most advertisers even today do not max out their daily budget, so that tells us they're willing to take all the clicks that we can give them at current CPCs.

Turns out advertisers see Google as a sales channel for customer acquisition and not as a marketing expense. The problem that they have is if you're a advertiser and you have tens of thousands of products, if you want to run an effective campaign, you need lists of key words, a creative, and a bid for each product. This takes a lot of effort to manage. So to increase our revenue as well as theirs, we're investing in tools that make the process easier. We see that when we build the right advertiser tools, it can have an even bigger impact than the ad's quality enhancements that we typically talk about on this call.

One example is the conversion optimizer, and that automates the bid part of the process. For advertisers who have adopted this tool, their cost per action is down 14% while conversions are up 21%. More recently, we launched the search based keyword tool and that one automates the keyword part of the process. It takes a look at an advertiser's landing pages and then it matches those up with actual user queries. Since that launch, what we're seeing is cases where keywords suggested by the tool have higher conversion rates and lower CPCs. We're also investing in a new AdWords front end and that's now available to over 100,000 advertisers in 12 languages. This is actually the biggest overhaul to AdWords in the past five years and it greatly simplifies the whole campaign management and reporting process.

Over on the search side, we know a lot about how people interact with search, and we can make everyone's experience much better as a result. We launched a feature internationally this quarter that automatically gives you the best results even if you misspell the query. Turns out there are over 800 ways our users misspell Britney Spears. But with this feature, we'll show you the right results for most of them without the user even having to click and rerun the query with the suggested spell correction. You can go ahead and try spelling Britney poorly, or if you're a bad speller just type it wrong naturally and you'll see. People click on these results a lot, so we know that we've made good progress here.

Patrick highlighted in his remarks that Google has rigorous management of expenses, but we also have a history of making big investments based on technical insights and we're going to continue to do that today, especially in areas like display, Mobile and Android. On the display side, the problem that we have is a fragmented market, and that makes it difficult for advertisers to run campaigns across the thousands of sites that they want to reach. So there's an opportunity to turn a complex process into something much simpler and open up the market to new advertisers. We just launched a feature called Display Ads Builder which helps do this and we want to make display ads as relevant and useful to users as search ads. And that's the intent of interest based advertising, which we also announced this quarter for beta launch in Q2.

On the mobile side, more people are accessing the web from their phones. The number of mobile searches has gone up five times in just the last couple of years and this new generation of phones has eyes, a camera, ears, a microphone, skin, a touch screen, and they know their location. This makes them a great platform for very compelling applications. We launched Google Latitude which you can use to share your location with friends. There's a fun Google news cluster just this morning on Latitude helping catch a thief in San Francisco, if you go to Google news and type in latitude thief. We're also investing in Android to make a great mobile web experience available to everyone and over 8% of mobile browsing is now conducted through Android which is second only to the iPhone.

Eric noted earlier the uncharted economic conditions that we face. What's interesting from my perspective is to see how graphically searches shed light on the state of the economy. Searches on foreclosures are up 42% year-over-year, bankruptcy is up 53% year-over-year, unemployment has more than doubled. We also see increases in education, self help, spirituality, and on the other side of the stress relief spectrum -- alcohol and gambling.

Some of this data about traffic on specific queries is probably not surprising. But our economic analysts will look at things in terms of buckets, and that can be more interesting. So we're seeing some surprises when you look at the categories of search queries. Health for example has seen strong growth in the US and it's now one of our largest verticals. Automotive, which is an industry that is actually in dire shape, is investing more in search advertising. It could be there that they're shifting budgets online. We also see increases in auto maintenance and auto parts, which may be a do it yourself phenomenon. On the online shopping side, users are looking for bargains in the mature markets and they're shifting purchasing to the web in the emerging markets. So amidst all the economic uncertainty, we're focusing on delivering the best search experience, driving more revenue, and on investing in the key areas where our technical insights will help us make a big difference. With that, back to Patrick.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thank you, Jonathan. And so we'll turn it back to the operator to set up the call for us, please. Operator?

OPERATOR: Thank you. The question-and-answer session will be conducted electronically today. (Operator Instructions). We'll pause for just a moment to assemble the roster. We'll take our first question from James Mitchell from Goldman Sachs.

JAMES MITCHELL, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Great. Thank you very much for taking my questions. Two sort of detail ones. One, you mentioned the impact of the bonus plan on costs. Would that be the same for each quarter of 2009 or was it front end loaded? And then second, you mentioned some UK pound sterling hedges expired. Would that imply that you're less hedged going into the second quarter than you were in the first quarter or you're hedged at less advantageous FX rates?

PATRICK PICHETTE: I'll answer both of these questions. On the first one, we had a ramp-up in Q3 and Q4 of 2008 in our bonus accruals, if you wish, because we had a very strong end of 2008. And now we're just resetting the plan for the year at the regular bonus accrual. So that's why you see the big change. So we had a very strong end of last year and so that's why the big discrepancy.

On the issue of the hedges, the original tranche of pound hedges were put in -- you'll remember in Q3 of last year and we're building a ladder of these hedges right over time. And it just happens now that the first tranche came to expire at the end of Q1, so we had to actually exercise them, if you wish. And we've continued through Q4 and in Q1 to continue to build our ladder. So there is continued benefits or impact of this insurance policy the way we think about it over the coming quarters just as much -- but it all depends on the strike price that we set at those times. I hope that answers that question.

JAMES MITCHELL: Great. Thank you.

PATRICK PICHETTE: We'll go to the next question, please.

OPERATOR: And we'll take our next question from Justin Post from Merrill Lynch.

JUSTIN POST, ANALYST, BAS-ML: Great. I want to get back to the seasonality comment. I know you brought it up, and we've been seeing it every year. Do you think you're going to see any abnormal seasonality given the recession? And then a quick financial question. You've got it looks like a 36% hedging ratio as far as the benefit to the impact from the currency, $429 million over $154 million. Is that kind of your target ratio or is it going to move around a lot over time? Thanks.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Sorry, could you just repeat the second question?

JUSTIN POST: Sure. It looks like your foreign exposure was about $429 million hit and you got $154 million benefit, so it looks like it was about a 36% ratio as far as offsetting the hit. Do you think that's kind of what we should look for going forward or can that number move around a lot?

PATRICK PICHETTE: On the latter question, you can't use it that way. I mean, the issue you have is the more volatility you have in all of these exchange rates, the more volatility you've have in all these ratios. So you can't use a ratio and plug it forward. On the -- remember, I just want to remind everybody, we're not hedging revenue. We're hedging margin. And so there is -- it happens that FAS 133 forces us to actually [follow in] the revenue for a portion of it, but it really is a margin that we're -- and it's the international portion of our revenues only. So doesn't affect the US. On -- so that's the thing. On seasonality, I'll let Jonathan answer it and then I'll hop on.

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: Sure, Patrick. So seasonality -- I mean, we don't give forward guidance, so let's just be clear on that. But seasonality can become more visible in an environment where you have relatively slower core growth. So that's certainly a dynamic to understand. The second thing to understand is that if you look at the history of our seasonality over many, many years, there were early years there where in many markets now where we enjoy significant market share, we were gaining market share, and that can mask some of the seasonality, and is less likely to be the case now.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Omid?

OMID KORDESTANI, SENIOR ADVISOR TO THE OFFICE OF THE CEO AND FOUNDERS, GOOGLE: I can add more color from an advertising perspective in the different regions. In the US, we also saw the typical seasonal downtick in Q1, but it was exacerbated by a weak consumer, although we had some interesting vertical bright spots in health, auto, and shopping. Shopping, for example, people are looking for bargains and doing some of their offline purchases online, making some of those shifts. In a recession environment, certain auto queries -- maintenance and repair is being popular. In UK, we saw the seasonal uptick in Q1 which is usually the reverse of US, but not as much this time versus prior years. A bit of weakness in travel and finance, and those are economically very sensitive verticals. In the rest of the world, emerging markets we saw continued growth and optimistic to continue that.

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: The other easy thing to do -- it's Jonathan here -- quickly, is just check the calendar and look at the timing of Easter, which is different this year than it was last year which is actually an important factor.

PATRICK PICHETTE: So for Q2 and Q3, the issues that Eric mentioned right at the front end of the call in these illustrations is simply to state that it is traditional that Q2 and Q3 are slower and so everybody should kind of think about it in those terms. Let's go to the next question.

OPERATOR: And we'll take our next question from Imran Khan from JPMorgan.

IMRAN KHAN, ANALYST, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: Thank you for taking my question. Hi, Eric, Jonathan, Patrick, and Krista. Two questions. You talked about and I think Patrick you talked about a little bit about trends in different companies and Europe. The question is more about month over month. Did you see the business condition getting better on a year-over-year basis in March or you're seeing the same kind of trend you see in January and February? Can you give us some sense? You have a pretty good pulse on the economy -- what kind of pulse trend you're seeing? Second question is my understanding is you have a pretty large small business customers and with the credit crisis and credit crunch, what type of impact are you seeing on the small businesses? Are they growing slower than the overall business growth rate? Thank you.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Okay. So I'll let Omid talk about the small, medium business and I'll come back to the first topic afterward. Omid?

OMID KORDESTANI: Interesting you highlighted that. I think we did see that effect, that we actually have difference in behavior between the smaller and larger customers, and I think the way we can explain this in that -- in the case of large advertisers, you typically have the CMO making decisions and looking at the spending as a marketing expense. And in this kind of downturn and the severity of the crisis that we all face, a lot of those budgets were put on hold or certain decisions were delayed. And our sales force and online teams are busy servicing and accessing those customers to show them performance information and ROI information and all the tools that we have in our hands to help with that spending.

We did see that in actually the small to medium segment that customers actually continued spending and we kind of attributed that to the fact that they really see this form of search advertising as a sales channel, as a way to generate leads and as long as they are gaining those leads and customers, they continue to spend. So it was interesting pattern that we noticed.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thank you, Omid. On the issue of month over month, I think the simplest answer is A, we don't comment on this monthly activity. I think that Eric summarized the point very well that the economic situation, it just remains difficult. And it's a tough economy out there, whether you're in Europe, whether you're in North America, and that continues to be unchartered territory in so many dimensions. So that's really how we can best portray the situation.

IMRAN KHAN: Thank you.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Let's go to the next question.

OPERATOR: And we'll take our next question from Christa Quarles from Thomas Weisel Partners.

CHRISTA QUARLES, ANALYST, THOMAS WEISEL PARTNERS: Two questions. First, on the TAC, I know some of the hedging benefit goes into the TAC rates, but they continue to come down. And I was just wondering if you could give us your philosophy on your positioning on TAC. And then the second question I had was actually on the licensing side. There was a fairly steep sequential slowdown, and I was wondering if you could give any color there as to whether or not it was on the DoubleClick side? Thanks.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Okay. So on the TAC side, I'll just take that question. Our TAC is actually kind of pretty stable between Q4 and Q1, even with the hedging benefits included. So we're not seeing continued decline, right. They're actually pretty stabilizing. There is a mix shift change so that obviously between Google and the network on one piece and the fact that we see lower TAC in general right now also is driven by -- we see stronger growth in our smaller partners which just have relatively lower TAC than our larger partners. So it's no more complicated than that. On the licensing, yes, it is the impact of DoubleClick. So let's go to the next question.

OPERATOR: And we'll take our next question from Mark Mahaney.

MARK MAHANEY, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: On display advertising, one on costs, both Eric and Jonathan, you talked about display advertising. Jonathan, anything more you can tell us about the interest based display advertising? Overall on the Internet and across all advertising, there's a move towards performance based advertising which obviously search is a part of it, but in display there's probably a significant opportunity broadly. What's missing in display advertising now and specifically what does interest based display advertising do to solve that? Then Patrick, any qualitative comments you care to give about how much more cost opportunity do you see, you've only been in there for two quarters but we've -- three quarters, but we've seen a pretty material move in the margin structure so far. Do you feel like you're early innings in the opportunities you have to rightsize the cost structure to what you think is most appropriate?

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: Hey, Mark, it's Jonathan. It's a little early to really give you deep insights on interest based advertising. We announced that we would launch interest based advertising on the content network and YouTube and start those deployments in beta in Q2. We're very optimistic because today when you think about the way these ads are run, we're showing ads based on the context of the page the user is viewing at the moment.

So for example, if you're on a sports page, we might show you ads for running shoes. But interest based advertising -- basically you use information about the sites that people visit to show them ads about the things that interest them. And we've certainly seen that if you like cars, we might show you ads for cars even if you're not on a car site. And we think that that is very robust in terms of its ability to generate much more targeted interest. But we don't actually yet have deep insights from customers on how that's working in the field. Omid may have a sense of what feedback we're getting from customers in terms of their level of interest in display advertising. But I can't otherwise give you a sense -- I can't otherwise report to you data on how interest based advertising is improving the targeting.

PATRICK PICHETTE: I'll take the second part of the question which is about costs. Really, you know, we -- as we had said in Q4 and we're saying again this quarter, right, given all the uncertainty in this environment, I think the Googlers in general, the entire community of our employees have been quite prudent on cost management. On the flip side of that, we continue to fully fund all of our strategic growth, like fully fund. So we are, as Eric said at the front end of the call, we are really focused on our growth agenda and we're not stopping that. So from that perspective, I think that that is simply a balance we're trying to strike between those two components. I'll let Eric just further comment.

ERIC SCHMIDT: My personal view on this is it's all about making us a better efficiency engine, that the changes and sort of tightness with which we're running now will put us in a stronger position as the recovery comes out. We have been able to do the things that we care a lot about and I think the Company benefits from the sort of discipline that Patrick has helped lead here.

MARK MAHANEY: Thank you, Eric. Thank you, Patrick, and thank you, Jonathan.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thank you. Let's go to the next question.

OPERATOR: We'll take our next question from Youssef Squali from Jefferies & Company.

YOUSSEF SQUALI, ANALYST, JEFFERIES & COMPANY: Thank you very much. Two quick ones. First, Jonathan, going back to DoubleClick, can you tell us about the integration, when will that be done? When will you be able to finally offer a fully integrated platform for both search and display? And then if I may, on YouTube -- Eric, you seem to be getting some traction with the studios getting short and long form content. Is the model as you see it ad based only? Or do you see potential for some fee based potential, even some subscription based model as the platform evolves?

PATRICK PICHETTE: So I'll let JR answer the first one, and Eric, your comments on the second.

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: We basically hit the one year anniversary of the DoubleClick integration and it has been a pretty smooth integration. The good news there is we gained customers on both the publisher and the advertiser side. We're pretty well on our way to being fully integrated with AdSense and AdWords. For example, we saw the integration of DART for publishers and AdSense completed in Q4. That basically combines DoubleClick's management and control tools for publishers with the advertiser demand for the Google content network. I'm not sure exactly how we define fully full integration and the details of everything that's left, but those efforts as well as the efforts on the ad exchange are coming along pretty nicely only one year since the acquisition. So I think we're doing pretty well.

ERIC SCHMIDT: And on the YouTube side, we are making very good progress now with small, medium, and even large scale studios. The most interesting deal that we just announced involved Universal Music which we announced last week, which we're beyond excited about because it really redefines the business model between content owners and companies like Google. With respect to how it will get monetized, our first priority as you pointed out is on the advertising side. We do expect over time to see micropayments and other forms of subscription models coming as well. But our initial focus is on advertising. We'll be announcing additional things in that area literally very, very soon.

YOUSSEF SQUALI: Great. Thanks, Eric, Jonathan.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thank you, let's go to the next question.

OPERATOR: And we'll take our next question from Jeffrey Lindsay from Sanford Bernstein.

JEFFREY LINDSAY, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & COMPANY, INC.: Thanks for taking my question. Can I ask two things? First of all, can you give us an indication of the percentage of YouTube that is actually carrying ads at the minute and what the sort of rates of advertising are relative to what you hoped they would be? And what I'm trying to understand is, is there significant upside potential here or do we think that YouTube is kind of where -- has reached its maximum potential on the advertising side? And then secondly, CapEx was really low. Do we think this is sustainable, or are you deferring projects? And what aspects of infrastructure are likely to come up in the next 12 months?

PATRICK PICHETTE: Great. Thanks. I'll let Omid answer the first one and then I'll take the CapEx question.

OMID KORDESTANI: Hi. It's early for us still to settle down on any specific trends here. We are just finding that we have -- we continue to have tremendous usage of the service. We're continuing to add a lot of great content and there's great advertiser interest. And again, as you know, there's an overall downturn in the display market. So what we're doing is just working with the advertisers to figure out at what price they can work with us, how creatively they can work with us. Today for example, on the home page you can see a large ad format for Crank 2, a movie opening tomorrow. There is great interest and we just look forward to working with the advertisers both in terms of the traditional ad formats, the new ones we're working with a transaction model that we have developed and then basically be able to share more with you in the future as we have better trends.

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: And let me just add to Omid, if I may, that there's a real synergy between YouTube and the display products. It's their first and most interesting scale partner and YouTube and its adoption, which has obviously been very strong will benefit from very, very highly targeted display ad models, which is what we're in the process of building.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Great. So that covers the YouTube portion. On CapEx, look, there is no doubt that this is -- this quarter again is a perfect illustration of the lumpiness of our CapEx and that you have to beware of models and trend lines, because if you trend the last three quarters, then in a couple of quarters we have no more CapEx. So beware of the modeling at its simplistic level. There is no doubt, though, that because of the economies of scale that we have now with the size of the Company and our better efficiencies, working at Moore's Law, doing more with less, we obviously see a positive trend that are actually demonstrated in the last few quarters. But I just want to reiterate that this thing is lumpy.

So for example, just as an illustration, it's public now that we have acquired a site in Scandinavia and anybody who lives around there knows that working in the winter and trying to do anything on the site has got to be delayed. So it's just an illustration of the lumpiness of how much we can put our CapEx on the line. So that's how I would answer the CapEx question. Let's go to the next question, please.

OPERATOR: We'll go next to Doug Anmuth from Barclays Capital.

DOUG ANMUTH, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Thanks for takes my questions. First, is there any structural reason to think that pricing would not come back to previous levels as macro improves at some point? Second, following up on the hedging related to the UK, can you comment on the amount of benefit that was received specifically in the UK due the hedge? Thanks.

PATRICK PICHETTE: I'll answer the latter first and then I'll let Omid and Jonathan talk about the pricing question. On hedging, we don't give any of the details of the gains. So unfortunately, we just don't do that. So on the pricing, maybe Omid and Jonathan, your thoughts. Let's start with Omid.

OMID KORDESTANI: Sure. I think advertisers are just being very rational here. They really are looking at their cost per acquisition or action and adjusting their pricing based on that. We're not seeing people, any significant trends in terms of people dropping out of the auction. So our expectation is that again, as the competition increases and the dynamics return, we'll get back to the previous pattern. I think it's purely results driven, rational behavior by advertisers.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Great. Thank you, Omid. We'll go to the next question.

OPERATOR: And we'll take our next question from Spencer Wang from Credit Suisse.

SPENCER WANG, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Thanks. Good afternoon, just two questions. I guess the first one for Jonathan on mobile. Can you give us a sense of what the clickthrough rates look like on mobile relative to traditional search. And then secondly, just on the cash balance on the balance sheet, any new thoughts on how you may deploy that in terms of sizable acquisition or perhaps returning that to shareholders? Thanks.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Jonathan, on Mobile?

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: I don't have specific data on clickthrough rates. Eric, did you have something to add? We're certainly seeing more advertisers are choosing to run their ads on mobile devices. You can see examples if you query auto insurance on the iPhone or an Android device and the RPMs on the iPhone and Android are high, even though we're in very early days of the mobile ecosystem, but I don't have specific data on how clickthrough rates differ.

PATRICK PICHETTE: On the cash balance, obviously we do have a significant cash balance and I'd like to get Eric's thoughts on it.

ERIC SCHMIDT: Well, I think the most important thing to say is that it is not burning a hole in our pocket. $2.2 billion of incremental cash will sit in nice, safe, low interest bearing accounts while the economic system works its way through the banking system and all of that. We continue to evaluate what we might do with the cash, but our view at the moment is to remain very, very conservative and I don't think that will change any time soon. We're fortunate that our very high profitability really does generate a lot of cash and that's a nice position for us to be in.

SPENCER WANG: Great. Thank you.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thank you, next question, please.

OPERATOR: We'll take our next question from Ross Sandler from RBC Capital Markets.

ROSS SANDLER, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Thanks, guys. Patrick, just a couple numbers related questions. If we look at the international growth like ex foreign currency and ex hedging, looks like it's gone from 30% year-over-year to around 22% in the first quarter. Little bit more of a deceleration than the 32% to 30% from 3Q to 4Q. So just wanted to get a little more color on regions that you're seeing potentially more weakness outside the UK on the international front. And then the second question is back to the bonus accrual issue. If we look at your cash operating expense, so cost of goods ex TAC, R&D, sales and marketing, and G&A went down by about $168 million from 4Q to 1Q. How much of that decline was related to the change in bonus accrual policy versus just straight cost cutting? Thank you.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Okay. So on the international front, and Omid can give more color commentary on that. But essentially what I've mentioned at the front end of the call is for Europe specifically, there are a few countries that -- the economic downturn has made its way to Europe, so now obviously the effects are there and I mentioned a few countries. And internationally the big cannons like China and Brazil and a few others continue to perform relatively well. Omid, would you have any additional comments on these markets?

OMID KORDESTANI: I think it's consistent with the comments you opened with, Patrick. In general, we are seeing the lens of Google really gives a lot of insights by industry and the economic conditions that we all know about. For example, finance and real estate in specific countries that are hit, and in China and Brazil, for example, we have performed reasonably well and very strong growth year to year. In markets where finance is hardly hit or real estate is hardly hit, we see the same patterns. In autos for example, as I mentioned in my comments we're seeing that there's actually robust activity in a lot of people taking, doing repairs or maintenance of cars rather than purchasing new cars. So it's really industry by industry and country by country mirroring the activity we see in the economy overall.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thanks, Omid. On the accrual, we don't give all the details of this economic, the facts, but what I can tell you -- it is true that it finds itself in numerous line items. So it is not only in the G&A portion, but would find itself into the R&D or as it's part of a labor cost. And so from that perspective, don't be surprised to find it in a few line items. But we don't divulge the details of it. Let's go to the next question, please.

OPERATOR: And we'll take our next question from Sandeep Aggarwal from Collins Stewart.

SANDEEP AGGARWAL, ANALYST, COLLINS STEWART: First of all, congratulations for Omid for finishing a stellar inning at Google and good luck with the new role.

OMID KORDESTANI: Thank you.

SANDEEP AGGARWAL: Eric, you mentioned towards the beginning of the call some trends in the CPC. So one question is the CPC trends you are seeing -- are they largely cyclical or are there any circular shift in terms of as, not necessarily seeing search getting matured, but as the search getting (inaudible)? And secondly, what kind of traction you are seeing for Android on mobile and what do you think about a potential of Android on the netbook? Thank you.

ERIC SCHMIDT: JR?

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: I guess I'll start with the questions on CPC. I think the main thing that you're seeing is really a function of some of the remarks that we made earlier. We see users are still searching, but they're searching for lower value stuff. Used cars versus new cars as Omid said. When they do search, they do seem to be a little less interested in buying and that's shown by somewhat fewer clicks and conversions. So I think part of the dynamic, as we said, is just the auction acting rationally and the advertisers not pulling out but just cutting their bid to manage their ROI.

I think the other thing that you see across the board is there is a bit of a geographical mix dynamic when you look at overall CPC. We have high growth in some of the emerging markets like China and Brazil, and there's also an FX component to the whole thing. So I think that's the set of things that we see. As the economy comes back, I have every expectation that we'll see the kind of dynamics that we've seen in the past. And as we get better at targeting our ad system and building tools like some of the ones I mentioned in my prepared remarks like conversion optimizer, I think there's certainly headroom for us to target much, much better ads which could and should have higher CPCs and yielding better conversions. I think Eric will probably take the Android netbooks question.

ERIC SCHMIDT: Thanks, Jonathan. Overall, it looks like Android is going to have a very, very strong year. We are already aware of many, many uses of Android, which as you know is open source, where literally the devices we hear about near the announcement. So the open source part of the strategy is working. We also recently announced an upgrade for new software for Android, which is out now among the technical community. The stability, the proof points are really there now.

There are announcements happening between now and the end of the year that are quite significant from operators and new hardware partners in Android space, which I won't preannounce except to say that they really do fulfill much of the vision that we laid out more than a year ago. On the netbooks side, there are a number of people who have actually taken Android and ported it over to netbook or netbook similar devices, so we think that's another one of the great benefits of the open source model that we've used, and we're excited that that investment is occurring -- and again, largely outside of Google which we think is great. Patrick?

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thank you. We'll go to the next question.

OPERATOR: And we'll take our next question from Mark May from Needham & Company.

MARK MAY, ANALYST, NEEDHAM & COMPANY: Thank you. Two questions. I'm hoping that someone will talk about the downsizing in your sales team recently and what your aims are in terms of what -- how you are trying to optimize the group, just explain the rationale behind that, those changes? And then secondly, I think you highlighted health as being one of the stronger ad categories in the quarter. There were obviously some letters from the FDA with some search advertisers in that category. Are you concerned about how that might impact the health advertising search category for you going forward?

PATRICK PICHETTE: So I'll let Omid answer the question.

OMID KORDESTANI: Thanks, Patrick. So in terms of the positions that were eliminated, we -- obviously always painful for us to do that and thankful for the employees and their contributions to Google. We just have been very disciplined in looking at our -- how we measure the performance of each region and looking at whether we have expectations that have not materialized and that we had some investments in areas that we need to shift, for example, from one region to another. So when we look at the kind of like countries in terms of their status of growth and potential and look at some of the emerging markets, we just systematically looked at the performance and the resources that are against them and decided in certain areas for example that we were over-invested. In other cases, we had aligned organizations better so we had taken marketing positions and combined them with our sales force and field marketing organizations. In some cases there were overlaps in those groups and we've just been very disciplined in looking at those areas and eliminating those.

PATRICK PICHETTE: I'll let -- just as a complement to that point, before I let Jonathan talk about the health vertical and the issues that you've mentioned. I think it's just fair to say, I mean, I think Omid you would agree with this, that when you grow so quickly in the way we did, it's almost impossible to get everything right every step of the way. So in that sense, I mean, these rationalizations are not because the business is not performing. It's just when you take a pause and it's time to optimize a little bit more, you get these kind of opportunities that show up. Wouldn't that be a fair statement, Omid?

OMID KORDESTANI: Exactly right.

PATRICK PICHETTE: For the health one, let me turn to Jonathan to give you more of a perspective on it.

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: I don't know all the details about the FDA's issues but I know that their suggestion, their regulations, that we want to make the ads be compliant with particular rules. They generally relate to pharmaceutical advertising and the dynamics around drugs needing to have side effects along with the benefits. So we're working with advertisers to try to figure out how to get their ads in compliance, and that's certainly going to take some work. I [wouldn't] say that pharma is the largest component in that category. I think we'll figure that out with the advertisers and move forward.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thank you, Jonathan. We probably have time for one or two more questions. One more question. So let's go to the next question please.

OPERATOR: We'll go next to Jeetil Patel from Deutsche Bank Securities.

JEETIL PATEL, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Thank you, and congratulations, Omid. Couple of questions. You mentioned that your customers a couple times throughout this call they view you as more of a sales and distribution channel over marketing channel. I guess broadly, when do you or have you approached a lot of the larger companies and said let's go into the VP of Sales, the CFO, the CEO, to have a conversation about how Google can help move the sales needle and almost similar to an outsourced sales force or distribution channel as opposed to going in at the marketing level which seems to be a tough area these days. And second, just curious, I know Twitter has been talked about in the marketplace and the media a lot of late. Seems like more of a passive communication model that is very effective. I guess when you look at that type of business model, or that concept, can you talk about I guess how do you monetize something like that in general using the existing paid search or display type ad models? I know that it's independent company, but curious of your thoughts of a model like that. Thank you.

PATRICK PICHETTE: So I'll let Omid talk about the first one, and then on the Twitter issue I'll let maybe Eric give his thoughts strategically about Twitter in general. So on the sales channel, Omid, you want to start?

OMID KORDESTANI: Yes, on the sales channel -- absolutely, that's exactly what we do. I mean, we really try to service all the senior level executives and our target customer base and named accounts, make all the tools that we have from our analytical tools to presentations, case studies, vertical analysis to really demonstrate that we are a very, very strong customer acquisition channel. Obviously as we're also entering into the display business more and more with YouTube, there is all the branding benefits and traditional ways of reaching an audience, and kind of creating the classic impressions that display advertising is wonderful for. So we're really trying to fire on all cylinders and approach it from all angles.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thanks. I'll let Eric talk about Twitter.

ERIC SCHMIDT: On the Twitter side, I think Twitter proves innovation is alive and well in Silicon Valley and it's really come onboard very strong in the last year. It's been around for a couple of years. And it provides -- it's an incredibly useful thing, what am I doing right now. So the question is how could you make some money at that. And without commenting specifically about Twitter, because there's a number of real-time update companies like Twitter, you could imagine that to the degree that they become successful, and already Twitter is doing so, it could become a channel for product information, market information, real-time information for which you can hang advertising products, whether it's a text ad or video ad or so forth off of it. I don't know personally their strategy, but it strikes me that's a logical strategy for them to pursue and something we would be happy to pursue with them and all the other players in that space. The great thing about Twitter is it proves that people really do want to communicate and communication can occur in many different forms.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thank you, Eric. Let me close now with the last comments before we close the call formally. Just to summarize, I mean, obviously a good quarter despite tough economic conditions out there. I think the key message is around we're still in uncharted territory. This is a tough environment for everyone. And then finally, the resilience of the model is actually pretty interesting, given everything that's been thrown at us both from the economy and the FX.

Finally, I think it is really important to recognize all of the Googlers and all our partners for an unbelievable set of efforts in Q1 and I think that it is important to really thank them for all their efforts. So good job.

ERIC SCHMIDT: And let's make sure we also thank Omid for his extraordinary service to the Company which will continue in a new form. Omid, thank you very much, and thank you all.

PATRICK PICHETTE: On this, operator, I'll let you close the call.

OPERATOR: Thank you. That concludes today's conference. We thank you for your participation. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
goog : Google Inc.
   IN
i8395464 : Internet Search Engines | iint : Internet/Online Services
   NS
c11 : Plans/Strategy | c15 : Performance | ntra : Transcript | c151 : Earnings | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | uk : United Kingdom | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020090430e54g001mg
  


 HD
Google 2008  Q4  Q&A Session - Final
   WC
9,360 words
   PD
22 January 2009
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
Copyright 2009 by ASC Partners, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
OPERATOR: Good day, everyone, and welcome to the Google, Inc. conference call. This call is being recorded. At this time, I would like to turn the conference over to Ms. Krista Bethinger, Director of Investor Relations. Please go ahead, ma'am.

   TD
KRISTA BETHINGER, DIRECTOR OF IR, GOOGLE: Thank you, operator. Good afternoon, everyone. Welcome to today's fourth quarter 2008 earnings follow-up conference call. With us are Patrick Pichette, Chief Financial Officer, and Jonathan Rosenberg, Senior Vice President of Product Management. After we cover a few housekeeping items, we'll open the call immediately to your questions. Please limit yourself to one question and one follow-on. Also take note that this call is being webcast from our investor relations website located at investor.google.com. Please refer to our website for important information including our earnings press release and the latest slide deck. A replay of this call will be available on our website in two hours. Please note that we routinely post important information at investor relations website located at investor.google.com and we encourage you to make use of that resource.

As a reminder, the purpose of this follow-up call is to give participants the opportunity to ask more detailed financial and product questions in an efficient and Reg FD compliant manner. I will now quickly cover the Safe Harbor. Some of the statements we make today may be considered forward-looking and these statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially. Please note these forward-looking statements reflect our opinions only as of the date of this presentation and we undertake no obligation to provide or publicly release the results of any revision to the forward-looking statements in light of new information or future events.

Please refer to our SEC filings including our quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2008, as well as our earnings press release for a more detailed description of the risk factors that may affect our results. Copies can be obtained from the SEC or by visiting the Investor Relations section of our website.

Also, please note that certain financial measures we use on this call, such as EPS, net income, operating margin, operating income, and our effective tax rate are expressed on a non-GAAP basis and have been adjusted to exclude charges related to stock-based compensation. We have adjusted net cash provided by operating activity to remove capital expenditures which we refer to as free cash flow. Our GAAP results and GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliations can be found in our earnings press release. With that, we're ready to take your questions. Operator?

OPERATOR: Thank you. (Operator Instructions). And we'll take our first question from Jeetil Patel from Deutsche Bank.

JEETIL PATEL, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Hi, guys. A couple of questions. I know you talked about advertisers having excess budgets to work with. Can you quantify what you have been hearing anecdotally what kind of budgets are available still that haven't been spent or is there any difference between US and maybe Europe and UK in terms of budget availability out there among some of the marketers and customers you deal with? Then, secondly, can you talk about depth in the fourth quarter? What have you done as it relates to depth of Adwords as it relates to Q4 relative to let's say Q3 or as a good proxy? Thanks.

UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE, GOOGLE: I'm not sure I fully understand the second part of the question on depth of Adwords. Maybe you can figure out how to ask that one a little better. I can try to address the first part. I mean, I think we mentioned on the call that most of the advertisers are not budget constrained, and the way I think one of the folks internally talked about it is it's almost like a broken slot machine. If you're a reasonably intelligent ROI guided marketeer you are not going to cap your spending. It's basically like finding a broken slot machine that you are not going to get up from. It's broken in the sense that every time you put a dollar in, N dollars come out where N is bigger than the amount you put in. If that's the case, you are going to want to do it 24 hours a day, seven days a week. The traditional markets is set quarterly daily by just along with ROI goals. In our world in many ways they sort of decided to walk away from the machine and let someone else sit down. We're not really sure why some of them choose to do that so fortunately it is a minority that are budget constrained. I'm not sure I have much color on how that differs geographically. Patrick might. On depth, I'm not exactly sure what you are asking. We talked about coverage on the call. Are you talking about ads per query? What exactly are you asking?

JEETIL PATEL: Yes, the number of ads you're serving per search result out there. Obviously that may differ in terms of two ads versus three versus four. I guess what have you been doing in the fourth quarter as it relates to the number of results you are putting out, let's say top fold relative to let's say quarters past.

UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: I really don't think we go into any detail on the sort of intra ad serving dynamics with respect to the queries.

JEETIL PATEL: Is that one way to generate more inventory as it relates to -- obviously you've got kind of the broken slot machine concept where the ROI is still positive and working why wouldn't you actually open up more inventory but obviously be selective and be careful about it? Is that something you are constantly refining let's say every month or every couple months around just yield?

UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: We're constantly sticking with the original vision that we had for Ad which is basically trying to improve the quality and show the best ads that we possibly can. We want to really avoid showing poor ads, so we're not really thinking of it from the standpoint of, gee, we could increase yield by adding a few more ads. We're continuing to try to show the best ads.

UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: Let me give an example on this. As we prune for quality relevant (inaudible), you have heard we came back to early 2008 level. You can imagine in a quarter where the exchange rate tanks really rapidly in a certain geography. In the algorithms, right, the algorithms say, well, people are paying less for this, and we're willing to pay less for this ad because compared to (inaudible) it's a lot less and all of a sudden that would have been totally fine. Because of the change in currency it may not be fine any more even though intrinsically it's totally fine in the algorithm. So engineers spend a lot of time when they look at these wild fluctuations that we have to look, as an example, to make sure that all the relevant ads that should be (inaudible) and the relevant to have the right cost, adjustments, example, but more importantly, what people want to see.

KRISTA BETHINGER: So I think we' going to move on now to next question.

OPERATOR: And we'll take our next question from Mark May from Needham & Company.

MARK MAY, ANALYST, NEEDHAM & COMPANY: Thank you. I guess this is an expense question for Patrick, pretty broad. But how confident are you that even in your worst case revenue forecast for this year that you can maintain the EBITDA margin roughly where you ended the year?

PATRICK PICHETTE, CFO, GOOGLE: Well, first of all, we don't give guidance. We don't give guidance on margin. So the one thing that I would say, as Eric mentioned, I think the management team is really working with two agendas always. One is manage our resources prudently, given -- we are still -- I think Eric was right in saying in some ways, the easy part was done in Q4. In that sense, we have very -- this is a worldwide recession with a lot of poor visibility what is going to happen. We just have to be prudent and, of course, more focused.

UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: One of the things that's sort of cattle point that I'm not sure came across in Eric's remarks about Q4, one of the things that I think we did see and benefit from is that there was a lot of inventory on the part of a lot of retailers who had anticipated a better Christmas. And once it became clear that sales were really required and two-for-one deals were required and a whole different dynamic needed to occur to flush that inventory through, interestingly, what we saw in November and December was consumers searching much more disproportionately for two-for-one's, for sales, for coupons, and advertisers really trying to make sure that they were able to sell the inventory which they had purchased when they were anticipating a better economic situation. So one of the things we have to ask ourselves now is how much of that inventory has actually flown through -- flowed through the system which gets back to my answers from a revenue standpoint on commerce, and obviously we would be adversely impacted if it were less total commerce moving forward. So that's really the wildcard from a user standpoint that we need to watch.

JEETIL PATEL: I guess the follow-up, another way of asking it, to what extent, Patrick and team, have you identified sufficient enough amount of expenses that you could cut in your worst case revenue forecast and the nature of those expenses, how quickly could you act on those?

UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: Well, again, I'll only talk about what we've done in Q4, and I'll let the facts speak for themselves. I think this management team is managing the company and it's not just me, we're a management team focused on making sure that we deliver the results that we set for ourselves. Sorry, (inaudible) otherwise I'd fall into guidance. We're very prudent in our management for sure, given the (inaudible). We'll move to the next question, please.

OPERATOR: We'll take our next question from Jeffrey Lindsay from Sanford Bernstein.

JEFFREY LINDSAY, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: Hi, thanks for taking my question. Can I ask, will the Company be changing its wireless search strategy now that Verizon has decided to move its business to Microsoft and so what can you do about this? Is at priority for you to actually address that issue? And then, second, could you just give us some sort of sense of what you are doing to improve the product development process? Thank you.

JONATHAN ROSENBERG, SVP PRODUCT MANAGEMENT, GOOGLE: Sure. This is Jonathan. I don't think that -- I don't think our wireless or our mobile strategy really is going to change. I think we have a pretty good balance of both searches that come by the partner channel as well as searches that come directly, so I am certainly pretty confident that we have lots and lots of organic search opportunities that will allow us to continue to move forward aggressively.

In terms of fundamentally changing the product and development cycle, yes, I don't think it's -- I don't think it's changing that much. I think we're just getting better at measuring it, and I think we're getting better at figuring out how to more expeditiously allocate talent to the depths of things that are most important, and that's really what the whole resource allocation exercise that we did in the fall looked at. We went through every product, and we looked at the big drivers of cost, be they bandwidth or CPU, or storage intensive products, and the relative revenue opportunities and really tried to quantify both short run and long run what our expectations were so that we could do a better job of allocating resources. I don't think we're changing any of the core notions that we probably set forth in the founders letters when we got started. People are still working on 20% time. We're still putting a big premium on innovation. We're still putting a big premium on focusing on the long term, and I think we're increasingly putting a premium on internationalization.

UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: One last point I would make on the mobile strategy. I think that as Eric mentioned earlier, in the previous call, it is front and center in the strategy of the company, and android and mobile continues to be a huge push so the fact that one deal versus another deal I don't think is central to the strategy.

UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: Jeffrey, just going back to the question you originally asked on Verizon, one of the things we really didn't get a chance to talk about on the previous call is that we're really seeing significant increases in the sales of the smarter phones, both the iPhone, which we mentioned, but also android, and with those kind of phones it's going to significantly grow the pie for mobile searches, and these smart phones have full browsers. When you have a full browser, you're not as dependent on a deal that locks somebody into a particular direction from a search perspective. So the better browsers get, the better phones get, and the better eco-system that evolves there, the better from our perspective.

JEFFREY LINDSAY: Yes, but you're not on either of the major platforms. You're not really on AT&T and you're not on Verizon. Verizon's largest carrier. That means your partner is really T-Mobile and Sprint. Is that enough to make android viable?

UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: Well, we think the android numbers will start to speak for themselves, particularly this year now that we've got some additional partners signed up to get to the next generation from a hardware perspective on the platform. So we are very optimistic about android.

UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: Move to the next question, please.

OPERATOR: We'll take our next question from Jim Friedland from Cowen & Company.

JIM FRIEDLAND, ANALYST, COWEN & COMPANY: Thanks. Two questions relating both to tech. First on site tech. It reached 5% of GAAP site revenues up 50 basis points sequentially and scoring a lot faster than the sites GAAP revenue. What's driving that, new deals, changes in deals? Then on network tech that was down on an absolute basis quarter over quarter as well as percentage basis, and what's driving that? You mentioned cleaning up ad sense for search on the previous call. If you could add a little bit more color there. Thanks.

UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: Just a couple points on that. One is, on our own Google property tax are driven a lot by the deals that we have on tool bars and all the others that we have, and obviously these deals are multi year, and so as they come through, they will increase short term but we see tremendous value and, therefore, good economics for us. On the partner pack, obviously mixed overall, mix is a big element of it. Because of our mix during the quarter, that had a big influence on us for sure. Then we also had -- the second issue is AFS being weaker, obviously influenced it as well. Finally, on a more marginal basis, but nevertheless, revenue from our hedging activity was also recognized between our properties and then our partner properties as well. So the combination of all of that makes it that our partner properties have lower (inaudible). I hope that answers the question.

KRISTA BETHINGER: Next question, please.

OPERATOR: And we'll take our next question from Youssef Squali from Jefferies & Company.

YOUSSEF SQUALI, ANALYST, JEFFERIES & COMPANY: Thank you very much. Patrick, the UK was down 1% sequentially -- I'm sorry, 1% year on year and 12% sequentially. When you FX neutral that, could you -- do you have those numbers? And then I guess, as part of that, how much of that is really FX versus maybe the UK market starting to mature a bit? From a monetization perspective, it was relatively more monetized than the rest of your territories. Lastly, on the stock option exchange, why did you guys decide to give employees options or repriced options when you could have maybe opted for restricted stock? Wouldn't that have been less dilutive?

PATRICK PICHETTE: Okay, so let me start first with the UK. We don't give -- we do the math for everybody, so please do the analysis and reverse engineer where the FX is gone over the last quarter, will you find that the FX is insignificant factor for the number that we reported. You can't discount -- the biggest issue for me is the issue of FX for these (inaudible), but you can't discount the fact that the macroeconomic environment and the pressures that we have in the UK, the UK is in a deep recession. Does the market also get influenced by this and the dynamics of advertising and spending and our products? Sure. It would be wrong to say that it's not. The UK is really being impacted by a deep recession.

So it's a combination of those two rather than maturity of the market that I think really impact it, with the first being the most significant factor. In the case of the stock option versus the DSU or GSU restricted stock, I think there's a philosophy issue that Google has which is it wants to continue to make sure that people think of the Company and manage the Company as a growth Company. Because of that, the mind-set of stock options is, in fact, the preferred way in terms of compensation versus GSUs in the balance of things. That's why we kept on with stock options as (inaudible). We'll go to the next question. Thank you for your question.

OPERATOR: Next question from Marianne Wolk from Susquehanna.

MARIANNE WOLK, ANALYST, SUSQUEHANNA: The first is regarding AdSense for content which you implied or sounded like you are implying grew faster than even Google.com this quarter. Is that because you are adding partners with the DoubleClick ad exchange or is that because pricing is improving? Can you help us try to understand what kind of legs are there? Second question I had, will you talk a little bit about the competition, if there is any, from Microsoft cash-back program? Thanks very much.

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: This is Jonathan. I'm not sure that we said that AdSense per content was growing relative to google.com. I think we we're talking about [pack] and I think it would have grown relatively faster compared to [AFS] where we did some of the arbitrage cleanup. I'm not sure that's what we is said, but it is the case that AdSense per content has been growing. I think that one of the interesting dynamics that we're seeing there, because we're monetizing better, and, yes, I think a lot of this is product efforts that we're doing along with DoubleClick.

We're getting more and increasingly -- it appears that we are getting better inventory, and it's particularly more recently with -- as the economy has slowed, it appears that some folks are giving us more of their inventory than they had in the past, and particularly some of the better inventory. So I think we see if another network can't sell, the inventory comes to us, we're monetizing better. So I think that's basically the story. The cash-back efforts that Microsoft is doing, we're watching that as carefully as we can. We don't really see much, and we don't see anything that is particularly sustained. We're continuing to see Google product search do very well from a traffic perspective in the last month both domestically and internationally, so I don't think we're seeing anything significant.

UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: Thank you. Next question, please.

OPERATOR: And we'll take our next question from Sandeep Aggarwal from Collins Stewart.

SANDEEP AGGARWAL, ANALYST, COLLINS STEWART: Thank you. Jonathan, I know you have answered multiple questions on coverage but I have one question on coverage and then one or two product-related questions. When you were decreasing your coverage ratio in '07 and maybe in '08, you particularly sacrificed some of the searches for clicks which could have generated some revenue, and as you expand your coverage again, is it fair to assume that you may not regain all those searches which you probably lost when you were decreasing the coverage ratio?

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: Well, sure, yes I'm not going to gain a search that I lost last year.

SANDEEP AGGARWAL: No, let me clarify. In the sense that you were decreasing your coverage ratio because you were improving the quality score, so as you expand your coverage, will you be able to capture the nature of those queries which were let go last time?

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: I don't think it's really symmetrical. I'm not really sure if increasing coverage directly the opposite of decreasing coverage. So I don't know. I think we'll be showing ads on a better set of queries and continuing to get good and bad ads.

SANDEEP AGGARWAL: Okay. Let me move to two product related questions. One is how similar or different is a mobile internet generated search query versus a PC generated search query in terms of CPC as well as a mix of commercial versus recirculated searches?

UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: That's interesting. I'm not sure we know the answer with respect to CPCs because I don't think that market has matured as well as it needs to from an auction dynamic standpoint. One of the things that we just started doing is making it much easier to run your PC-based queries on the mobile devices and customize the ads so that they look better and work better on the mobile devices. The only data point that we've seen so far is that click-through rates seem similar to that of desktop computers, but I don't think we have a good sense yet for what CPCs will look like in a more mature market. I personally think that they could be much higher, because I think when people are going to the trouble of running a search on a small portable device, particularly the location to wear a small portable device, they're much closer to consummating a transaction and so you can imagine that that search is more valuable, particularly to an advertiser in close proximity to where the search is run. Mobile is bigger on the weekend, which is another trend that we've seen. I think that desktop is bigger during the week, but those are really the only other clear trends that we've observed.

UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: Thank you. We'll go to the necks question please.

OPERATOR: We'll go next to Gene Munster from Piper Jaffray.

GENE MUNSTER, ANALYST, PIPER JAFFRAY: Good evening. If you could talk a little bit from a very high level the economic environment. I know you're not economists, but is it reasonable to expect some form of seasonality emerging in the business in 2009?

UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: There's obviously seasonality within the business, just because the economics of -- if you look back the last few years, Q4 is a very strong quarter. Q1 is also a stronger quarter relative to Q2, Q3, people on vacation, a lot less browsing. Seasonality is part of the business. Always has been and continues to be.

GENE MUNSTER: Okay. Great. Second is that you mentioned on the previous call that some of the behaviors around the holiday quarter in comparison shopping and so forth, more people doing searches, but do you have any expectations about some of that search behavior in 2009 that same kind of Wal-Mart effect continuing or just any general thoughts on search behavior in '09?

UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: I guess the only comment I'd have there is the comments we made about consumers shopping for deals every day. We certainly measured some of those things and I think we've shared some of the data points we we had. It was true that on days like cyber Monday, which everybody looks at after Thanksgiving, you see people looking more on coupons, rebates, and price comparison. But I don't think that behavior was limited to key shopping days. The increase of deal-seeking queries then was minor compared to the surrounding weeks, and I think you are going to see that people are going to -- people are going to continue to shop for deals. It's clear that there are deals out there.

KRISTA BETHINGER: The next question, please.

OPERATOR: And we'll take our next question from Ross Sandler from RBC Capital Markets.

ROSS SANDLER, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Thanks for taking the question. First, on international, and second question on display. So on the international side, if my math is correct, international revenue ex-FX was up 35% year-over-year in the fourth quarter. That was an acceleration from 32% last quarter in 3Q '08 on an FX-neutral basis. So if the comments around the UK showing some macro sluggishness, where was the accelerated growth coming from? Was it particular to a geographic region or was it more a factor of company-induced growth initiatives like improving coverage? And then a follow-up on display. Google's approach has been to kind of position the Company for the days when purchasing display ads is an automated format similar to how search is bought today. Do you think there's a need for a strategy in the interim to give large display advertiser a little more hand holding to get things going in display before the buying process is fully automated, which could take a few years? Thanks.

UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: I'll answer the first and let Jonathan answer the second. We're not going to comment specifically on the numbers you provided but it is true in the grand scheme of things international continues to perform well, where continental Europe certainly is much less mature than the US and the UK, and relatively, as we discussed in previous calls, some countries like Germany and a few others, have done fairly well, even in this economic environment. It's also true that we have a number of environments where we are growing rapidly in our brick countries, so we talked about China, we talked about Brazil, and we have a lot of optimism for these countries because they are much less mature, so there's a lot of run runway in them. Different economics but a lot of runway. That covers the international. I'll let Jonathan cover the other question.

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: I think your observation is well taken. I think Eric said we want to make display advertising easy and we want to make it accessible for advertisers and publishers. The challenge is, today it is extremely inefficient so that does make for a very big challenge. Lots and lots of activity in the display world happens even by a fax that never minds phone calls. The logistics involve people doing things like literally cutting and pasting HTML codes to get ads up and running on a site. So I think we absolutely recognize that between now and when we can achieve the kind of science that we'd like, we've got to do a lot to continue to help advertisers get these ads going. One of the things, we've launched the display ads builder which does make it much easier for the small advertisers, particularly AdWords customers to use display and get reasonably creative professional-looking display with the AdWords interface, but, yes, I think getting to the long run goal of making this more like Google AdWords is going to take time and I think we need agencies to help with it, and there are some great agencies and SEMs who are helping carry this forward, and we'll keep doing whatever we can incrementally to make it easy for advertisers as well.

KRISTA BETHINGER: Next question, please.

OPERATOR: We'll take our next question from Steve Weinstein from Pacific Crest.

STEVE WEINSTEIN, ANALYST, PACIFIC CREST: Thank you. I'm curious, in your tool bar or other sort of distribution deals, as those relationships and whether contract ends or you go with another partner, does your revenue commitment to that partner continue as long as someone continues to use that tool bar or is there a finite date where we could stop modeling that as an expense of the business? And then, second, you've talked a lot about the display business, and you're obviously very optimistic about it. Can you help us get a sense of scale or size for that business today at Google, and where it might become a meaningful piece of the business?

UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: We definitely -- you are -- we're not going to give you detailed answers to either of these questions, unfortunately, but typically in most of the deal type of efforts that were engaged, we're paying for what we're directly receiving. So I'm not going to go beyond that. And we don't comment on sort of the relative side of different businesses. But obviously display is getting to be quite significant and alluded to the degree to which the DoubleClick integration has made significant progress and YouTube is really using DoubleClick as a platform for the business that they're building. So it's already a meaningful and growing part of the business, but I think that's all we'll say.

UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: Next question, please.

OPERATOR: We'll take our next question from Mark Mahaney from Citigroup.

MARK MAHANEY, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Thanks. Two quick questions. Patrick, back on the cost side I know you're not talking about costs going forward, but what would you point to us as the best examples of cost constraints in just the fourth quarter, and the setup for the question is if we remove the revenue contribution, which must have been all margin from the hedging program, margins -- operating margins, non-GAAP operating margins, actually declined sequentially. So what do you think is the best evidence of the new cost controls that are at the company?

PATRICK PICHETTE: So let me give you, I'm just looking for my list here. I have a list of some of the ideas we have done in Q4 and I can share that with you. A couple areas where it is pretty easy to understand how to contain cost growth. So obviously hiring pace is a clear one, right. Think last quarter we had, what, 400 people or 500, some where around there. We have 100 for this quarter. We have talked about, in the previous quarter as well, we did talk about managing our contractors and our temps in a better fashion, so again opportunities there. We have a lot of office space, Google has, right, because we're everywhere, and we've been publishing from this office space that we dont need in the short term but, again we have options there. Improving machine utilization, we've talked about it on the call a bit earlier. Using better machines gave us a lot of CapEx and OpEx. Same thing for better utilization of bandwidth. So we have, in general, a number of other elements, professional services, including self-service as well within Google, so that just to give you a sense of, it's a broadness, it's a comprehensiveness, and it's one where we are just beg responsible at managing our resources. So this gives you a sense of the expense management that we're doing.

MARK MAHANEY: Thanks. A quick follow-up just on AdSense per search. I think the comment was made during the call about cleaning up AdSense for search network. Can you give us any sense of how far along the process you are in doing that?

PATRICK PICHETTE: I'll let Jonathan talk about it. It's more a (inaudible).

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: Not sure I can give you a sense in terms of proportionally how much of the way we're there. Certainly I think there's a disproportionate number of -- I think there were a good number of shopping oriented sites that we're working in a manner that wasn't consistent with our terms but I don't think I can give you a sense of to what degree we have gotten rid of all of it. Part of it, it's like dealing with e-mail spams. You get rid of it, then it comes back. So I think it's kind of going to be an ongoing battle, and I'm not sure I can predict how that's going to play out.

MARK MAHANEY: Great.

UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: Thanks. Move to the next question, please.

OPERATOR: We'll take our next question from Jason Helfstein from Oppenheimer.

JASON HELFSTEIN, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER: Thanks. I'm going to try to get three quick ones in. One, there was no mention of apps in the release and I'm wondering if we should read into. My second question, without giving specific numbers can you comment on paid Click trends by geography, so perhaps better or worse than the 18% you reported? Lastly on cash. How much cash resides outside the US? Then connected to that would you consider buying back stock to offset option dilution? Thanks.

UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: On the Click by geo, I just want to say no comment on the details. All I can say is as we've said in the previous call, we have healthy growth across all major geographies. So I'll cover that one. I'll let John talk about the apps and get back to you on the cash issue.

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: Yes, I mean, apps are certainly one of the top things that I mentioned. I think I talked at the beginning about the fact that we've released over 100 enhancements to the whole application suite in 2008. So I think I said momentum is particularly strong, both Eric and I focused on the (inaudible) business on apps number as well as the 10 million users and 3 million active users from school. So we continue to be innovating aggressively on apps. If I think about this, this last year there was Google Site, Google Video. I know we had sync tools for Outlook and Blackberry, numbers of large enterprise deployments. Eric's mention of the general continued demand for cloud-driven effort, I also think the opportunity here in 2009 is that as enterprises are struggling to deal with increasing IT costs in a recession that should be a good opportunity for us that is relatively low-cost platform that's easily updated and delivers a lot of the functionality that they need.

UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: Let me come back on the cash issue. I just wanted to check before -- we don't disclose that. So that's why. If we disclosed it, I would have given you the latest update but we do not disclose it. Sorry about that. Do you have a question on (inaudible)? We look at it all the time, companies do all the time, and there's no announcement we can make on that. Next question, please.

OPERATOR: We'll take our next question from Rob Sanderson from Broadpoint Amtech.

ROB SANDERSON, ANALYST, BROADPOINT AMTECH: Two questions. One on the macro, one on the currency hedging program. Want to revisit some of the things said here here on the macroenvironment and impact we might have on seasonality. I think Jonathan was discussing the two for ones and discounts. I think that also led to some more aggressive [T-word] bidding but don't these dynamics set up a much more seasonal Q1 than we've seen in previous years?

UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: Again, we don't give forward guidance, but it goes back to the same thing I said before. It depends on the total amount of commerce. And service these are occurring in the economy at large, so I wouldn't read much more into it other than that. Your ability to predict what's going to happen from a macroeconomic perspective in Q1 there is probably similar to ours. If there's less commerce overall, then that's going to adversely impact Google. If there's not, and there is sort of consumer driven reductions in commerce and spend, then we should be fine.

ROB SANDERSON: Okay, thanks. Then on the currency hedging program, Patrick, you mentioned you're not fully implemented in the UK. Is there any way you could give us a sense of what it may have looked like in Q4 had you been, and just on the basic mechanics of the program, it's forward cash flow you're attempting to hedge out here, and I think -- does this mean as the dollar strengthens you see an unrealized gain that flows back through the income statement over future periods that you're hedged against? First is that the right general mechanics and then if that's the case, if currencies were to remain constant from here, should we expect a similar gain in the future periods as we saw in Q4?

PATRICK PICHETTE: The mechanics -- I'm not going to pronounce myself about the future because in the last six months I've been living through this roller coaster so who knows. And on the first part of your question, we just -- all I can say is we implemented our Great Britain hedges in Q3. It's (inaudible). That's all we can give you. We'll take the next question, please.

OPERATOR: We'll go next to Imran Khan from JPMorgan.

IMRAN KHAN, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Thank you again for taking my questions. Two questions, then I have a clarification just because I think there was some confusion about that. So the first two questions are, if you look at the seasonality in the fourth quarter business was there anything abnormal? Have you seen the growth rate, if I look at the year-over-year growth rate in October and November versus December? Any color on that would be very helpful. Secondly, question for probably Jonathan. It's been reported the relationship with Warner Music, their pulling out of their content out of YouTube. If you can give any color on that in terms of monetizing the music content that would be very helpful. In terms of the clarification, the $129 million FX hedging, that flows through your US revenue line or international revenue line, and Google.com versus AdSense? Thank you.

PATRICK PICHETTE: On the seasonality issue we're not going to give you -- we just don't divulge October, November, December, we just don't go there. Could you just repeat your hedging question?

IMRAN KHAN: Yes. So the $129 million, the benefit that you had, do you recognize the revenue on the US revenue line or is that the international revenue line, or do you -- ?

PATRICK PICHETTE: I understand now. Sorry. We recognize -- of the 100% of the 129, roughly, you can think of it as 70% for Google properties and 30% for network properties. And so, therefore, you have to have a sense of what US versus international. When we do it actually -- it's 100% international because we're hedging -- we don't need to hedge US.

IMRAN KHAN: Right.

PATRICK PICHETTE: International, but the real question is Google or network.

IMRAN KHAN: Got it.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Then you had a question also on --

IMRAN KHAN: YouTube, about Warner Music and it's been report that Warner Music pulled their content out of YouTube. Any update on that, and it seems like it's also been brought up about the -- or basically let me phrase the question this way. How can we better monetize the music content that you have licensed through the music industry?

UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: We certainly still got great relationships with thousands of partners, including many in the music industry. So we'd love to work with Warner, but I think we're going to continue to do what we've been doing, try to continue to make mutually beneficial deals and then try to do some of the things like we talked about on the earlier call with respect to better monetizing YouTube which we sort of went through that on the call that we're currently working on. So I don't think I have more of an answer than that. On Q4, I think we have actually written in the past a little bit about exactly how Q4 differs from other quarters, particularly the blog that [Halvarian] posted, which I think new clicks conversion Christmas 2008 you'll see it. That basically talked about how CPCs tend to go up at the end of the quarter and conversion rates go up even more so that you have better advertiser ROI in December. I think we did see that this quarter. I think it's a little bit more muted than it had been in previous quarters. -- than in the previous two quarters, I should say.

UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: We'll go to the next question, please.

OPERATOR: We'll take our next question from George Askew from Stifel Nicolaus.

GEORGE ASKEW, ANALYST, STIFEL NICOLAUS: Yes. Thank you very much. Two quick questions. Does the employee stock option exchange program require a shareholder vote or any other approvals beyond the Board actions already taken?

UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: The answer is no.

GEORGE ASKEW: No. Okay. Fair enough. And then, secondly, I believe in the past you may have tested display ads on Google's search result pages. What is the current thinking about that possibility as a new rollout, new opportunity?

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: This is Jonathan. I'm not sure what tests you're referring to with respect to display ads on search. In fact, I can't remember our ever having done that. I can get somebody to verify that for you. We have done a number of tests on AdSense for content, and we're presently running display there. But I'm not sure what you're referring to with respect to search. The only thing I can think of is we did some very limited tests on image search and we're now beginning to experiment with that. But other than that, I don't know of any tests.

GEORGE ASKEW: Okay. What is the appetite for possibly pursuing that? On Google's search result pages.

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: I think we've got -- we have to figure out the ad format, we have to figure out where it makes sense. I think as a general rule, it's -- there are not that many scenarios in which we have a big appetite on search. Maybe if you run a search for a movie it would be nice to show you a movie trailer. So I think there are some limited number of scenarios where that might make sense, but maybe -- but beyond that I can't really say. I certainly wouldn't say we'd never do something, but we've got to figure out a way to do it in the right way for the user.

UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: Thank you. We'll go to the next question, please.

OPERATOR: And we'll go next to William Morrison from ThinkEquity.

WILLIAM MORRISON, ANALYST, THINKEQUITY: Hi, thanks for taking my question. Couple questions on the use of data. I'm curious if I should say my understanding is that you do not use data you collect from Google search to improve monetization or the ads on AdSense for content. I just want to confirm that's true, and if it is, I'm curious if you -- if that's something you would never do or it's something you would consider in the future, and then the second question is on social media, I think the last quarter or the quarter before you mentioned that the monetizing was a little bit more difficult than you thought. I'm curious if you could give us an update on where you're at and if you're making any progress there. Thanks.

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: Yes, I think we can get pretty quick short answers on these. The answer to your first question is, no, we don't do that. The answer to the second half of the first question is that I generally don't want to say what we would or wouldn't ever do in the future, so I'm not going to comment there. And the second -- the third question, I guess, on social media, I think is that it continues to be very, very challenging and I don't think we have any big breaks to report in Q4 with respect to how we're monetizing social media.

UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: Move to the next question, please.

OPERATOR: And we'll go next to [Samet Sinna] from JMP Securities.

SAMET SINNA, ANALYST, JMP SECURITIES: Thank you. Couple questions I'll try to squeeze in here. When we spoke about advertisers bringing down CPCs to make sure campaigns are running successfully with the right ROI, can you talk about what was the extent and which verticals did you see that in? Second question is, with you allowing alcohol ads in the US gambling in the UK, do you see any benefits from that? Any initial reaction? Then the third question, Patrick, looking at cash balance quarter over quarter, your interest income increased about $50 million. If I do the math, it seems like you have an interest rate of 3.5%. I was wondering if those numbers look right?

UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: Let me cover the issue of -- let me cover the second point first, which is the issue of alcohol and otherwise. What we had found is simply that we had inconsistencies in the way it -- in the number of places all these things were legal and fun and in some cases we did offer it and in some cases it was totally legal in another country but we didn't. So what we did this fall is basically a cleanup to be consistent in our rules, wherever they apply.

UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: And it is generating revenue.

UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: It is generating revenue. On the issue of what we've heard, it's really in the range of 1.5% to 2% annually on our cash balance, and that's driven by the conservative stance we've taken in our portfolio right now, given with all the uncertainty in the environment we took the position to be very conservative in our -- in the management of our cash balances, and that's why we have a lower yielding portfolio than would have otherwise contemplated.

UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: Okay. I'm not sure that I can comment specifically to the observation (inaudible), advertiser behavior, changes in bids by vertical. I did mention on the call, as I think he did, that by size of advertisers, we're seeing strength in the small and medium advertisers relative to the large ones. Some of the surprises I think that we saw with the verticals that I could -- that are interesting is that autos really did much better than I would have expected given the fact that the auto industry is doing fairly poorly. It appears that the subset of people buying cars are still of enormous value to the folks in the auto industry. I think real estate still remains the hardest hit vertical, although the mix is changing. You see things like suddenly there are more searches on property management. Maybe people are buying houses at cheap prices, then have to figure out how to use them as rentals. Foreclosures is bigger relative to mortgages than it was a year ago. Then I think maybe the one other area that surprised me was you typically think that entertainment is a little more recession-resistant than as a category, and that category I think didn't do as well as I would have thought, so I assume that has to do with those dynamics.

SAMET SINNA: Follow up on the cash question. Interest income increased by $50 million sequentially, cash balance increased by $1.4 billion. Was that increase in interest income just due to the higher cash balance or was it something else?

PATRICK PICHETTE: No, we also had a realized gain on investment of $29 million from before.

SAMET SINNA: Okay. Thank you.

PATRICK PICHETTE: You'll find in that the numbers at some point. We have time for one more question, so we'll take the last question, please.

OPERATOR: We'll take our last question from Ben Schachter from UBS.

BEN SCHACHTER, ANALYST, UBS: Just a housekeeping. On that last point, was there bad debt that was also -- can you give any thoughts on the bad debt? Then, Patrick, you've only been there about five months. Clearly a big part of your focus is on the cost containment initiatives. Can you talk about sort of where you are in terms of how you have actually influenced the numbers for this quarter or should we expect more of your sort of focus going forward? Then, Jonathan, broadly speaking I was wondering if you could talk about any products that are not performing particularly well that you are rethinking and related to any specific comments about how check-out performed in the quarter and the future of that business? Thanks.

PATRICK PICHETTE: On bad debt, basically -- We're very comfortable with our bad debt, where it stands right now, and you'll see that in all the filings. I'm totally comfortable on it and we're managing it very closely, as you will see, and so that is an area of real focus but not an area of concern for us. We'll continue to manage it tightly. On the issue of (inaudible). Yes, it's true I've been here five or six months. I think my observations are as follows. In the script I gave a few minutes ago on the previous call, I said, and I meant it, (inaudible). This is not an issue of one individual, it's an issue of the operating committee.

In these times where you have no visibility what's going to come ahead of you and every week you get another surprise in the economy and in the market and in the banking system, we just seem to (inaudible) as an operating committee and we are quick to respond. Frankly, you go to the extreme of that, right, there's no sense throwing a big party while everybody else in the economy around you is losing their [stock]. It's the responsible thing. So I think Google has responded well. Let's be prudent. Let's be responsible. Of course, like every business, we have a lot of levers we can use to manage the business responsibly, but let me tell you the most important point which is we are really focused on growing this business for the long term. Yes, we are in fact managing the short term because of all the hiccups going on around us, and Google is not immune to the economics in which we live around us, but I can tell that you 90% of my agenda is really focused on building on the big opportunities that Google has, and that's my agenda as well, so that's how I will comment. You had a question for John, too.

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: Focus on the big opportunity, give me my bottled water back.

PATRICK PICHETTE: No bottled water. Not good for the environment.

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: I think we -- what you really saw after the reviews that I talked about in some of my remarks at the beginning was that we got a much more -- we became a lot more careful about how we were allocating resources as a result, and I think there were some areas that were concerning, some of which you probably read about, the resources in Google Video and in Notebook and Dodgeball and others did see disproportionate relative to what we were getting. So I think you have seen already most of the ramifications of reviews that we did. Check Out actually add pretty solid performance. We've got millions of buyers. We have added half a million sellers. There's billions of dollars in transactions. It's only been in the market for two years. Holiday performance was good, particularly if you look at the state of the macroenvironment. We still see advertisers reporting much better click-through rates on the (inaudible) ads and higher conversion rate. So I think that there are advertisers who are having good success with Check Out.

PATRICK PICHETTE: On that note, we're going to end the call. I'll turn it back to Krista for whatever is proper, and thank everybody for having participated and with your questions. Look forward to followup with Krista and Marie.

KRISTA BETHINGER: Just wanted to thank you all for your participation, and we look forward to speaking with you again soon. Thank you.

OPERATOR: This concludes today's conference. We thank you for your participation. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
goog : Google Inc.
   IN
i8395464 : Internet Search Engines | iint : Internet/Online Services
   NS
c11 : Plans/Strategy | nitv : Interview | ntra : Transcript | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe
   PUB
ASC Partners, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020090129e51m002jp
  


 HD
 Q4  2008 Google Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
8,739 words
   PD
22 January 2009
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
Copyright 2009 by ASC Partners, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
OPERATOR: Good day, and welcome, everyone, to the Google Inc. conference call. This call is being recorded. At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Ms. Krista Bessinger, Director of Investor Relations. Please go ahead, ma'am.

KRISTA BESSINGER, DIRECTOR OF IR, GOOGLE: Good afternoon, everyone, and welcome to today's fourth quarter 2008 earnings conference call. With us are Eric Schmidt, Chief Executive Officer, joining from New York; Patrick Pichette, Chief Financial Officer; and Jonathan Rosenberg, Senior Vice President of Products Management, both joining from Mountain View; and Omid Kordestani, Senior Vice President of Global Sales and Operations is joining from London. Eric, Patrick, and Jonathan will provide us with the results from the quarter and then Omid will join us for Q&A.

   TD
Please note that this call is being webcast from our Investor Relations website located at investor.google.com. Please refer to our website for important information including our earnings press release issued a few minutes ago along with slides that accompany today's prepared remarks. A replay of this call will also be available on our website in a few hours. Please note that we routinely post important information on our Investor Relations website located at investor.google.com and we encourage you to make use of that resource. In addition, please note that we're moving to a two call structure this quarter. First we will host our traditional strategic overview in Q&A with its usual format followed by a second call which is effectively an extended Q&A session, giving the opportunity for participants to ask more detailed and financial and product question in an efficient and [SEC] compliant manner. The second call will begin at 3 PM Pacific and will also be webcast from our Investor Relations website.

Now let me quickly cover the Safe Harbor. Some of the statements we make today may be considered forward-looking including statements regarding investments in our core business, expected performance of aspects of our business, traffic acquisition costs, operational efficiency in costs, our expected level of capital expenditures, and our proposed option exchange program including the expected resulting modification charge. These statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially. Please note that these forward-looking statements reflect our opinions only as of the date of this presentation and we undertake no obligation to provide or publicly release the results of any revisions of forward-looking statements in light of new information or particular events. Please refer to our SEC filings including our quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30th, 2008, as well as our earnings press release for a more detailed description of the risk factors that may affect our results. Copies can be obtained from the SEC or by visiting the Investor Relations section of our website. Also, please note that certain financial measures used on this call such as EPS, net income, operating margin, operating income and our effective tax rate are expressed on a non-GAAP basis and have been adjusted to exclude charges related to stock-based compensation. We've also adjusted our net cash provided by operating activities, removed capital expenditures which we refer to as free cash flow. Our GAAP results and GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliations can be found in our earnings press release. With that, it's my pleasure to turn the call over to Eric.

ERIC SCHMIDT, CEO, GOOGLE: Thank you very much, Krista, and good afternoon to everybody on the call. As she mentioned, we're making a couple changes here. In particular, Patrick and I are going to be taking the lead on these calls and Larry and Sergey will occasionally attend. They continue to focus on technology and product innovation which, of course, they do so very, very well.

Looking at the quarter, we had a strong quarter. I want to thank everybody for their hard work -- both customers and employees, all the people who made this possible. We have strong search query growth year on year and revenue up in most verticals, and we had tight control over costs, something which had eluded us perhaps in the past but we got the formula down now. And the results we think show that advertisers value targeted measurable ads. In the fourth quarter, advertisers invested where ROI was the highest -- in other words, online. And that's one of the few really good stories in the past quarter. And our sales force went out to tell people it's really important to understand that revenue is what you need and the quickest way to get revenue is to use targeted advertising, and that strategy worked very well for us. Consumers, of course, are also using search comparison shopping, and that helped us as well. As you'll see in our results, we took significant write-downs with AOL and Clearwire, as write-downs are mandated by the way the accounting works. Both deals made sense to us then and make sense to us now and continue to be a strategic part of our overall business philosophy.

Looking at the economic situation which is on everyone's minds, in some ways Q4 was the easy part. After all, we had holidays, excess inventory and so forth. And now we're in a situation where last quarter we said it was going to be unchartered territory. It's now clear we're in a worldwide recision as everybody knows, rising unemployment, foreclosures, that sort of thing. But we don't know how long this period will last. We obviously hope it will be short. We're certainly prepared to get through this, no problem. From Google's perspective, in the short term we're doing ongoing prudent management of our business, and that means the kind of actions that we've taken in the last quarter and we're prepared to continue that focus. In the long term, we're obviously very optimistic about Google and its future. It is absolutely true that users shifted to the web and advertising is moving online. Both those trends are fundamental and they benefit Google, and obviously our company and our employees and our shareholders.

Now we're in this for the long haul. Another issue that we faced in the last couple quarters is that about 85% of our employees have at least some stock options are underwater, which for most of you I think know the exercise price is significantly higher than the current market price of our common stock, so we're going to offer people an opportunity to do a stock exchange. Our theory here is that part of the compensation is stock is how it happens in high tech and it needs ultimately to have some value over the long term. This obviously is a voluntary problem, and a number of shares subject to outstanding options will not change as a result of this exchange offer, although there may be more ultimately exercised, which may ultimately result a change in that number. Total options are expected to represent 3% of total shares currently outstanding, and as part of the bargain that we're working with employees, they have to give up 12 months of vesting -- literally have 12 months of vesting added, and they have to wait six months to exercise. We think that's a good deal for shareholders and for our employees as well.

We're also, of course, focusing on new opportunities, which means we've been looking at things which have not been performing as well as we wanted. We've discontinued some products with low impact (inaudible). We will continue to review that. Our core focus is on the huge untapped potential of search and ads. Search more dynamic, less static, empowering people's use -- search wiki is a current example where people can annotate search quality and tell us how to make the search better and so forth and so on. And overall, just better search quality. Wouldn't be it nice if Google understood the meaning of your phrase rather than the words that are just in the phrase? We have a lot of discoveries in that area that are going to roll out in the next while. On ads, we're producing more relevant ads against more commercial queries every time. Relevancy against commercial queries equals ROI, which equals revenue for Google. We also have have very significant advanced bidding measurement optimization tools underway -- because we know the larger advertisers are willing to take more clicks if we can give them the tools to generate those clicks. And, of course, obviously the local market remains very large.

We're also focusing on products with the greatest potential for transformation. Google is at its best when we transform markets or ideas or how information works. In display, for example, the DoubleClick integration is almost complete, business plan is in place. We're really trying to bring the science of search to the art of display, is one way to think about it -- increasing relevance, greater ability to measure results, an integrated one stop shop for advertisers and publishers, and increase choice, for example, for YouTube, part of Google. We are very optimistic that we'll see breakthroughs in 2009.

In the area of Android and Mobile, we're going to open up mobile devices to developers to stimulate innovation. As an example, 800 free apps are already onto the Android marketplace and making the mobile web much more user friendly with billions of page impressions already available through the G1 phone. The Enterprise, same argument applies. The Cloud is now mainstream, having a big impact on lots of companies. And by focusing on, for example, the 1 million Google apps business customers, we can get enterprise quality applications hosted by Google at a dramatically lower price, really makes a big difference -- especially with people who are looking for areas to control costs. Big businesses are using applications already -- Genentech, the Washington DC government, for example, and we're also having a big reselling program there that's just now launched where we had more than 1,000 resellers apply to the program. So looking back, we had a strong quarter ending what turned out to be a strong year, and business quite healthy, especially given the tough economic climate. We're very much focused on the long term. We have confidence in our technology and our people and our enduring power of the web and how users will use the web and its future. So with that, Patrick, maybe you'd like to take us through the financials. Thank you.

PATRICK PICHETTE, CFO, GOOGLE: Thank you, Eric. Good afternoon, everyone. Well, we had another solid quarter and this despite a challenging economic environment to say the least. Gross revenue was up 18% year-over-year to $5.7 billion, reflecting a healthy growth across both Google.com and the AdSense for content network. Google.com was up 22% year-over-year to $3.8 billion, driven by steady traffic growth and a significant number of ads quality launches this quarter. AdSense was up 4% year-over-year to $1.7 billion, driven by decent performance in our AdSense for content network. This was partially offset by the impact of the clean-up efforts on our AdSense for search network as we continue to focus on delivering high quality traffic to our advertisers.

Our global aggregate paid click growth was also reasonably good. It was up 18% year-over-year and 10% quarter-over-quarter, reflecting healthy growth across all major geographies. We saw good growth in the US with revenues up 13% year-over-year to $2.8 billion and up 5% quarter-over-quarter. International revenue also held up reasonably well, accounting for 50% of total revenue or $2.9 billion. The UK did show some softness, largely due to the currency. It was down 1% year-over-year to $685 million, and down 12% quarter-over-quarter. The rest of EMEA Europe performed much better driven by strong performance in Germany, France, and the Netherlands. Asia and Latin America were solid as well, driven by the relatively good performance of Brazil and China.

Let me turn now to expenses. As a reminder, we have three broad categories. First traffic acquisition costs were $1.5 billion for this quarter. This is 27% of total advertising revenue, and were down from 28% in Q3. Second, other cost of revenue, those increased by $29 million over Q3 to $707 million. The largest driver of the increase -- data center related costs, including depreciation, equipment, and operations. Finally, all other operating expenses totaled $1.65 billion, including approximately $286 million in stock-based compensation.

As we stated before, it makes sense in the difficult economic environment to maintain a clear focus on operational efficiency and cost containment. To this end, the Googlers have clearly responded to the call in Q4. As a result, our non-GAAP operating profit, which excludes stock-based compensation, reached $2.1 billion for Q4 resulting in a non-GAAP operating margin of 37.6%. Our prudent approach to expense management is also reflected in our headcount numbers. We had approximately 20,000 full-time employees at the end of Q4. As mentioned previously, we do continue to hire with approximately 100 net new employees added this quarter.

A few other topics are clearly worthy of mention this quarter. First, note that we recognized approximately $1.1 billion in strategic investment asset impairment charges related primarily to our investment in AOL and Clearwire in Q4. These charges have been excluded from our non-GAAP results but are detailed in our earnings press release. Also, our non-GAAP effective tax rate before these impairment charges, stock-based compensation, and related income tax effect was 27%. The increase from 24% in Q3 was primarily due to the increase in earnings in countries with higher statutory tax rates as well as the effect on earnings of various hedging activities. This was partially offset by certain benefits primarily in R&D tax credits which was enacted several months ago, but for which we took the entire 2008 benefits in Q4.

On FX now, it's clear that currency was working against us again this quarter, but our hedging programs continue to work well. Before hedging, the recent strength of the US dollar relative to other currencies had a negative impact of $334 million on revenue in Q4 compared to prior quarter. We're pleased that our cash flow hedging program allowed us to recognize a benefit of approximately $129 million to revenue this quarter. I'm also pleased to report that operating cash flow remains strong at $2.1 billion.

Our CapEx for the quarter was $368 million. As in previous quarters the majority of this CapEx is related to our IT infrastructure investments including data centers, production of servers, and networking equipment. I wish to note here that Google will continue to make significant investments in CapEx in future periods. Our free cash flow remained also strong at $1.8 billion, up 73% year over year.

Before closing, let me quickly touch base on the exchange offer program we announced today and that Eric talked about a few minutes ago, which would when launched offer employees the opportunity to participate in a voluntary one for one exchange of their underwater stock options. As Eric mentioned, the program is intended to help us motivate but also retain our employees. A number of Google shares subject to the outstanding options will not change as a result of the exchange offer, although a lower strike price attached to the new options will increase the likelihood that they'll ultimately be exercised. The options expected to be exchanged represent as Eric said 3% of total shares outstanding. To increase retention, the new options will have 12 months added to the original vesting schedules, and in addition, new options will vest no sooner than six months after the close of the offer period. We do expect to take a modification charge estimated to be about $460 million over the vesting period of the options to be exchanged. These vesting periods range from six months to approximately five years. If the offer launches as expected, this modification charge will be recorded as additional stock-based compensation beginning in the first quarter of 2009. Please note that the terms and of timelines of the exchange offer may change and we encourage you to read the documents we will file with the SEC when the exchange offer commences.

So in summary, from a financial perspective, our core business continues to demonstrate strength in this -- despite a challenging economic environment. And while we're focused on operational efficiency, we have and we will continue to make crucial investments that drive value for our users, our advertisers, our partners and for Google in the long term. With that, thank you for your time, and I'll turn it over to Jonathan for his thoughts on the quarter. Jonathan.

JONATHAN ROSENBERG, SVP, PRODUCT MANAGEMENT, GOOGLE: Okay, thanks, Patrick. I think I'd like to just take a few minutes to cover some of the top product accomplishments from both the quarter and the year. I'll start, of course, with search. So we launched over 350 search quality improvements in 2008. The biggest addition was the size of our index and that grew substantially over the year. I think people often forget that it's the behind the scenes work that keeps our results fresh and comprehensive, so I wanted to remind folks that the index matters. We also worked very hard on latency across the board. That was not just on search but in fact on all of our products. We've also mentioned universal search on many calls this year, and for perspective on 2008, we tripled the number of queries that trigger different type of results across images, videos, news, blogs, websites, and of course books.

Blending books is particularly promising, because we've now reached a settlement to our lawsuit in the US with Book Search, and if that's approved by the court, millions more in-copyright books will be accessible to searchers. Many of them will be available for purchase even if they're out of print. So in that area, in effect, we feel like we'll be creating a whole new market for out of print books. Our founders have said something to the effect that even a great search engine won't help much if the content you're looking for isn't online. So adding more books and expanding our index are very, very important efforts.

It's also clear more people are searching for mobile phone and they're doing that more often. Our general objective there with mobile is simply to make search from a mobile phone as easy and as fast as it is from a computer. And in some cases, like with the voice search feature that we launched this quarter for iPhone, we're making it even easier. You basically just pick up your phone and talk. I mean it couldn't be much easier than that. With all of our improvements, mobile search traffic went up substantially this year and not surprisingly it peaked at the end of December.

We're also excited to work with T-Mobile to bring the first Android phone to market, which we did in the US in October. It's done very well to date, and I'm pleased to personally report I have two happy and dedicated teenage G1 users in my own house. There are more phones in the works, so we think Android will spur innovation and competition in the mobile world.

On the ad side, I think you all have probably already surmised that this was, in fact, one of our strongest quarters for ad quality improvement. We're going to keep working to get smarter about which ads we show users so that the queries that should have ads do have ads. I think you also know that our ads coverage dipped some earlier in the year and Sergey alluded to that on some of the previous earning calls, and some of our launches this quarter helped us increase coverage. But keep in mind we're now only back to about where we were at the beginning of 2008 from a coverage perspective. We're also working to make it easier for our advertisers to create and run great campaigns, and this quarter we beta launched the search based Keyword Tool, and that, of course, helped advertisers identify relevant queries on which they're currently not running any ads.

Also remember most of our advertisers don't max out their daily budget. So there's really a lot of opportunity there if we can just figure out how to deliver more clicks to them. It's also a lot of work to create a display campaign. So many AdWords customers don't bother, and we're working to fix that, too. There, we launched the Display Ad Builder to let advertisers create nice looking display ads, and they do that directly from the AdWords interface. A good example there is TripRes.com. They had not in fact done display advertising before, but they're now running a campaign for Las Vegas travel packages on lots of Las Vegas related sites.

YouTube, of course, is emerging as a key component of our display strategy and this quarter we, of course, launched the sponsored videos. People are browsing for videos hundreds of millions of times a day and sponsored videos is a great way to show them relevant and useful ads. You can try querying movie on YouTube is a good way to see something.

We also launched over 100 feature releases to our application suite in 2008 and, of course, the big advantage there of those web-based apps is how quickly and easily you can push new features out to customers and that you can build apps that otherwise wouldn't be available to businesses like Chat and Gmail, which we launched in Q4 and I hope you guys have tried. Momentum is particularly strong in the apps area. We now have more than 1 million businesses on apps with over 10 million users and over 3 million active users from schools.

Perhaps the thing I'm most proud of this year is how we worked with Patrick's team to establish much more mature business practices while maintaining our culture of innovation. In the fall we conducted a whole series of thorough resource and technology reviews, and all of that led to more focused resource allocations going into 2009. The review process that we created is now basically a part of how we do business, but at the same time we've added, this good business process in rigor. The pace of innovation at Google is still very strong. Chrome is a great example of that innovation. It's fast. It's stable. It's gotten great user momentum since we launched officially in Q4. So we hope Chrome will spur even greater innovation, both within Google and, of course, externally, and we hope Chrome will make the web better for our users, our customers, our partners and, of course, for all the Wall Street analysts that we have here on the phone as well. So happy new year and thank you, and back to Patrick.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thanks, Jonathan. We will today -- I'll be conducting the Q&A with the operate simply because Eric is in New York and I'm in Mountain View. So I'll turn it back to you, operator, and give us the rules for the Q&A, please.

PATRICK PICHETTE: (Operator Instructions) And we'll take our first question from Ben Schachter from UBS.

BEN SCHACHTER, ANALYST, UBS: I wonder if you could talk about video a bit in terms of what have been the biggest barriers to making that more meaningful, and why haven't we seen more experimentation on the types of ad units that are available on video? And related to that, is there anything Google is doing to help get video directly to the television sets across the world? Thanks.

PATRICK PICHETTE: I'll let Eric introduce the subject and Jonathan may have additional comments.

ERIC SCHMIDT: We've introduced three new video formats in the last four to five months. This is for advertising now, and each of them is having some traction. I think it's fair to say that we've not found a single solution that really drives revenue, for example, wildly and we're certainly working on that. From the standpoint of getting video to the devices, there are quite a few deals on the way now which are basically anything that you can do on television you can also do from YouTube. And virtually all of the new device manufacturers -- and there's some that have been announced already -- have the ability not only to display Internet content that's video, but also YouTube content. We would expect eventually your vision to be realized. It's just a matter of the product cycle of the partners.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Jonathan?

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: Sure. Hi, Ben. We actually have done quite a few experiments. I mean there are multiple ad solutions that we've been working with on YouTube. It's hard to match the right format with the right content but as Eric mentioned, we've got a few attempts there. We've obviously got the in video ads and the click through rates there are very good. They're many times that of standard click to play video ads. There's also the content videos which I mentioned launched this quarter. The content platform, the home page sponsorship, the click to buy work that we've done as well. But I think the hard part there is you've got to find a way to come up with a standardized format that makes the creative development of the ad much, much easier. So I think that's a significant constraint. On TV, we have extended the reach of Google TV ads with a bunch of cable networks. We signed NBC, Universal, and (inaudible) CNBC and NBC this quarter. So I think there is pretty good progress there.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thanks. We'll go for the next question, please. Operator?

OPERATOR: And we'll go next to Imran Khan from JPMorgan.

IMRAN KHAN, ANALYST, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: Yes, hi. Thank you for taking my questions, two questions. If I look paid clicks growth rate, it was 10% sequentially versus fourth quarter revenue growth rate of 3% year over year. So trying to understand the dynamics of the price. It seems like probably the revenue per click went down, but I understand the verticals. And the second question is if you look at your partner revenue growth rate significantly underperforming the Google.com revenue growth rate -- trying to understand what percentage of that revenue growth -- faster growth rate is attributable because the partner's volume is not growing versus advertisers allocating more dollars on Google.com site because they're seeing better conversion? Thank you.

PATRICK PICHETTE: I'll just give a quick summary of some of the mix issues and then I'll turn it to Omid and Jonathan. Just very quickly on the mix issue, it is true that in a relative sense the AdSense revenue was weaker. We should say, though, that the AdSense for content actually had a relatively strong quarter and we're pleased with that. In the case of AdSense for search, we work closely with all these partners to improve the quality, but we do do quite a bit of arbitrage clean-up in Q3 and Q4 to make sure that we do provide the best information. But I'll turn it over to Omid for more details as well as Jonathan afterwards.

OMID KORDESTANI, SVP, GLOBAL SALES & BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT, GOOGLE: Thanks, Patrick. Yes, again on the mix work I'd like to emphasize we did a number of quality measures to remove some of the arbitrage that was happening under the various parts of the network, and that clean-up led to some of that downturn that you saw in the numbers. In terms of CPC, we don't break out CPC numbers specifically, but a big impact on it had to do with unfavorable changes in the Euro and the pound exchange rates. And aside from FX, we just have various drivers that have to do with the mix in our business -- growth rate in emerging markets, for example, versus developed markets where newer markets tend to have lower prices and therefore put a downward pressure on CPCs, different property mixes, Google.com versus the network has different characteristics and different pricing dynamics in the auction. And the other interesting factor is that advertisers find new less monetized keyboards, and we actually improve the coverage of ads by helping the advertisers automatically take advantage of more keywords. Some of the new keywords will have lower CPCs again, and put downward pressure on the pricing, and again all of this in long term in our view is going to improve the quality and improve the auction dynamics over time. Thank you.

PATRICK PICHETTE: You okay, Jonathan?

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: I think that covered it all, yes, FX, it's mix issues. I think the only thing we didn't mention is that advertisers are looking very carefully at conversions in ROI, and so one of the dynamics that I think we did see is that consumers are doing more comparison shopping. So they're clicking more, but they aren't -- in some verticals they aren't necessarily converting as much, or maybe what they're engaged in is smaller purchase sizes. They're buying things that are a little less expensive, and so the auction's working. The advertisers are basically adjusting their bids to maintain their ROI or even enjoy the slightly increased ROI which we've typically seen in December and we saw again this year. Brazil and China are probably the examples when we talk about mix of countries -- of markets where we saw growth, but it's presumably growth that modestly lowers CPC.

IMRAN KHAN: Great. Thank you.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thank you. We'll go to the next question, please.

OPERATOR: And we'll go next to Justin Post from Merrill Lynch.

JUSTIN POST, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: Thank you. First, on the call today Microsoft indicated a slowdown in activity in the last six months, and I'm just wondering if you see anything abnormal you want to highlight since the holiday season? And on the second thing is just on the ratio of the foreign exchange hedging, it looks like it was a $266 million year-over-year impact and it looks like in your release you had a $129 million benefit. Is that the kind of ratio we could think about going forward? Thanks.

PATRICK PICHETTE: On the issue of what's going on in the market, I think everybody knows we don't comment on what's going on in the market and we don't speculate and we don't give guidance on it. On the issue of the FX, there's two things we should remember. One is Q4 was an extraordinary quarter from a volatility point of view. That's the first message. Everybody that's running models right now is probably scratching their heads given that the pound went from $1.80 something to $1.50 something in a matter of weeks. It just threw the entire market for a spin, and in that context, that's why we've had the results that we've had. In some cases we've had a lot more benefits because of these hedges. In the case of the UK, I can mention that we have put most of these in Q3 and they really are taking hold in Q1 of this year. So we have a partial benefit. It wasn't perfect for Q4. All this said, though, one last point is you got to remember that we do hedge bottom line, not top line. So we're not trying to match revenue for revenue because of FASB 133. We are really looking for bottom line hedging, and that's why you see a proportion. So the models are really quirky this quarter because of all these factors at play. And second is always remember we're not hedging for revenue. We're hedging for bottom line.

JUSTIN POST: Thank you.

PATRICK PICHETTE: You're welcome. We'll go for the next question.

OPERATOR: And we'll take our next question from James Mitchell from Goldman Sachs. James Mitchell from Goldman Sachs. Mr. Mitchell, your line is open.

PATRICK PICHETTE: James? If you're on mute. We'll go to the next question and then we'll come back to James.

OPERATOR: And we'll take our next question from Spencer Wang from Credit Suisse.

SPENCER WANG, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Two quick questions. First, CapEx was down in the quarter pretty significantly and down on a full year basis, and I know, Patrick, I think you said that you continue to make significant investments, but is this a normalized level? That's question one. And then the second question was looking at the cost structure of Google now, I was wondering if you could give us a sense of how flexible the cost structure is, maybe excluding TAC, what percentage of the costs or fixed versus variable versus semi? Thank you.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Okay. So on CapEx, first and foremost is we are really glad of the performance of CapEx this quarter. Again, it's a combination of two things that are at work. I just want to reiterate, we are investing, and we are investing and never jeopardizing the quality of the experience and the robustness of our infrastructure. It just happens that we are benefited by two factors. One is we are benefiting from economies of scale as well as the greater efficiencies of our infrastructure. So if you think of the Moore's Law at work, you get a cheaper cost for equipment as well as better utilization. So all of these factors we really push hard on and therefore are gaining benefits.

And then the second factor which is also quite important in the modeling is it's lumpy. Big data centers are lumpy in the way that they're invested. So in that sense, I'd be careful about looking at one quarter to make a forward-looking modeling assumption. So we're pleased about our performance. Obviously we don't give guidance, but we are committed to making sure that we invest to make sure our infrastructure is robust.

On the cost structure point of view I think that if you look very simply at Google, I mean you really have a cost structure that is -- if Hal was here he would say all costs are variable in the long run. So, that makes the answer easy. But the real issue is, we're a labor intensive business. We have a lot of labor, and so depending on your views on labor, right, I mean we take care of our employees. We have a lot of flexibility within our model, and we're going to continue to manage the business responsibly in that sense. Having said that, there is no doubt that in the mindset of the company we really are, and having finished my first six months around here, I think it is true. We are managing this business for the long term. There's no doubt about it. Decisions are built on that basis. So I hope that answers your questions.

SPENCER WANG: It does. Thank you very much.

PATRICK PICHETTE: We'll turn to the next question, please.

OPERATOR: And we'll go next to Mark Mahaney from Citigroup.

MARK MAHANEY, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Thank you. Patrick, one question for you. George, I think mentioned -- I'm sorry, Eric mentioned he got the formula down now for cost controls. How much more opportunity do you think there is? You've only been there for 1.5 quarters. Do you feel like you're just starting to find ways to cut costs or do you think we saw that major impact of what you can achieve already in the quarter? And then a quick question on CPC, and if you could help us think through how deflationary CPC trends could be in an environment where the millions of advertisers who are on Google, some of them must be going out of business. People got stretched. Advertising budgets are reduced, advertising budgets -- of all the different mix factors, how much CPC pressure could we see on the downside just from core recessionary factors? Thank you.

PATRICK PICHETTE: I'll answer the first question and I'll let the combination of Jonathan and Omid maybe comment on the second. On the first one, I think that you have to keep in mind that the mindset of the company is to be a growth company. I think that Eric, Larry, Sergey always prominent to every management meeting that we're a growth company and we're focused on growth. So in a certain way we are really focused on growing this company. And in that sense, I'd love to have more cost because I have more revenue, and we're going to continue to focus on that. On the issue of is there more available cost cutting or efficiencies available? All I'll say is, we're just managing responsibly given the environment. Let me turn around the CPC question to Jonathan.

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: Sure, Mark. I think it's pretty easy. A recession actually caused less commerce to take place. If there were fewer transactions, then that would adversely impact us and you'd see revenue going down. I don't think you'd sort of see a CPC-based deflationary spiral because some modest number of businesses went out of business. I think that the auction is pretty robust. There are many, many other businesses behind that subset of businesses that would come into the auction if there was a transaction that was going to be consummated. So I think it's really a function of whether or not overall commerce is reduced and in the end the CPC question -- the way we see it is really driven by users, and it's not quite as much the number of advertisers coming in and out at any given time.

MARK MAHANEY: Thank you, Jonathan. Thank you, Patrick.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thank you. We'll go to the next question, please.

OPERATOR: And we'll take our next question from James Mitchell from Goldman Sachs.

JAMES MITCHELL, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Great. Thank you for taking my question this time. Can you discuss why traffic acquisition costs were down quarter on quarter and can you talk about the taxation of the FX hedging benefits?

PATRICK PICHETTE: Yes. The reason for TAC down quarter-over-quarter is due for mix reasons for the most part, because as you can think about it, our mix between Google.com versus all other partners is a primary force for that. On the tax of the hedging, could you just give me more precision on your question, please?

JAMES MITCHELL: I think in the introductory remarks you mentioned that the effective tax rate increased from 24% to 27% and you cited one of the reasons for that as being the FX hedging benefits. I assume that there's some sort of capital gains related tax or something?

PATRICK PICHETTE: Yes. Thank you for your clarification. So here's the issue. In a very simple world, the following happens. When you have -- our hedging program is not made for the wide ranges of benefits that we -- or losses that we would assume with the huge fluctuations of this quarter. If you think of in these extraordinary times. So if you do have a huge disparity in a currency, and you end up with a large benefit that is US based, it will be taxed in the US. If the reverse of that, and the losses on the Euro side, right, you get all the benefit in the US, you have the loss on the other side. And the net is you end up paying taxes more than you would have thought. So if it's a small number, it doesn't matter. If it's a bigger number, then it becomes more material. I hope --

JAMES MITCHELL: It's purely because the tax rate, your general tax rate, is higher in the US than in Europe?

PATRICK PICHETTE: That's correct. That's exactly right.

JAMES MITCHELL: Thank you.

PATRICK PICHETTE: You're welcome. We'll go for the next question, please.

OPERATOR: Thank you. We'll take our next question from Doug Anmuth from Barclays Capital.

DOUG ANMUTH, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Thanks for taking my question. First one is on the distribution deals, and in particular can you talk about how your philosophy has changed on distribution deals like Dell and Verizon recently and what were the primary reasons you did not win those deals, and would you expect to maintain most of the query volume from the Dell deal? And the second one for Jonathan, in terms of coverage you mentioned that you're just back to early '08 levels. What levels would you like to be at and how do you think about that going forward? Thanks.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Great. I'll let Omid answer the first one and then we'll pass it on to Jonathan.

OMID KORDESTANI: Hi. On the distribution deals, we're engaging in all of these partnerships and renewals discussions or new ones, and first we have a number of opportunities from different segments, manufacturers to software companies that bundle our various toolbars or Chrome. And we do very sophisticated business modeling in these, looking at the value of this traffic to us, and ultimately we're just willing to pay a certain amount for that distribution. So there are other factors that enter these negotiations, competitive dynamics, other benefits that a partner may get from a different provider, very competitive environment. And we believe there's a lot of choice there and we have alternative opportunities for distribution. So have a very active program where we're happy with the forecast that we have and the alternatives that we have to distribute the products.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thanks. Jonathan?

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: Yes. On coverage I think the answer is we don't know what the optimal coverage level is. It certainly depends on the dynamics of the mix of commercial versus noncommercial queries and how that changes over time. So we'd really like to show fewer ads on the searches and the queries that don't really warrant them and we'd probably like to show fewer, better ads on the queries that do. So I don't think we actually have a -- we don't have a clearer answer than that.

DOUG ANMUTH: Okay. Good. Thank you.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thanks. We'll take another question.

OPERATOR: And we'll take our next question from Christa Quarles from Thomas Weisel Partners.

CHRISTA QUARLES, ANALYST, THOMAS WEISEL PARTNERS: Hi. First question was -- I think Hal said last quarter that advertisers would take as many clicks as they could get at current prices. I was wondering if you still stand by that, I guess, relative to the comments that were just made as it relates to potentially ROI discipline waning in Q4 and maybe back and forth in Q1? And then the second question -- I was just wondering if you could add any color or commentary on how SMB and mid-size and Fortune 500 marketers acted in Q4. Thanks.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Great. I'll let Omid talk to both of these points, because he has great insight on them.

OMID KORDESTANI: Hi. On the first questions the -- Jonathan talked earlier -- advertisers acted very rationally in the quarter. They lowered their bids in certain cases, certain verticals and looked basically for proper returns on their campaigns rather than just dropping out. And the majority of our revenue comes from advertisers that do not max out on their campaign budget. So basically what Hal said is that they'll max out -- they'll take more clicks if we can deliver them, and that's a very good trend for us.

The other factor to your second question that we saw is that -- quite a bit of diversity actually in the way the customers are behaving. Some of the larger customers are definitely in a mode where they're evaluating their marketing budgets, and any kind of savings that they can undertake they do, and that puts some of these market spending and budgets on freeze. And what we're finding, though, is that among the customers, the ones who have been online and are familiar with the benefits and the metrics and are doing the measurements and using analytical tools to do the kind of marketing that we provide, they continue to take advantage of this. They just perhaps lower their CPCs or change their campaign sizes. But in general we're seeing again the ones that are sophisticated understand how to market with us. They stay with us. We're seeing robustness actually in the smaller segments of our customers. Again that just speaks to the fact that they understand the metrics and they're willing to pay for those clicks based on the measurements that they have. So it's hard to again predict, with the visibility still not clear for us, and we're hard at work in the field calling on all the segments and servicing all the segments for the customers.

CHRISTA QUARLES: Okay. Thanks.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Jonathan, a few comments?

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: The small and medium advertisers we actually have some data on and I think Omid's statements are all absolutely and [directionally] correct. What we see is small and medium advertisers tend to cut their ad budgets back less than the larger direct advertisers, and we think what happens there is that the larger advertisers are much more prone to doing more across the board media spend cuts. But most of our advertisers basically don't max out their daily budge. And because every single conversion is ROI positive for them they're basically willing to take as many positive ROI conversions as we can give them.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thank you. I just want to say that because of the distributed aspect of our call today with Eric in New York and Omid in London, we'll take one last question now, and then obviously invite everybody who wants to participate for the follow-up call. So we'll go for the last question, please.

OPERATOR: Thank you. We'll take our last question from Heath Terry from FBR Capital Markets.

HEATH TERRY, ANALYST, FRIEDMAN, BILLINGS, RAMSEY GROUP, INC.: I was wondering if you could give us an idea for the display advertising side of the business, particularly first as it relates to the DoubleClick ad exchange and its development, and second to the display advertising inventory you have on YouTube and your other nonsearch sites.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Yes. I'll let Omid cover this, please.

OMID KORDESTANI: Hello. First of all, we're doing very well with the DoubleClick integration as Eric mentioned. The business plan and the product roadmap is really set and delivering every month every quarter. And we're starting to see that we're getting more inventory actually because we're doing a great job of monetizing it. DoubleClick is getting integrated with the Google systems for the publishers. This means that with the AdSense systems, we have DFA and have beta launched a number of features. Publishers basically can make more inventory available to us, and we monetize it with AdSense only if the publisher can't sell at that high of a price, which is again a great way for the publishers to optimize the sales of their inventory. And if advertisers are working on integrating AdSense for content tools with DFA products. YouTube is fully integrated into the Google display platform and in effect YouTube is a client of these systems. And DoubleClick video product is the way that YouTube sells the video inventory on a reservation basis and we use AFC AdSense for content on YouTube for sales of auction-based inventory. Again we still believe that this is a great market for us. They're very fragmented. It's really ready for better measurements and better optimizations for both publishers and advertisers. And we're having great success with the DoubleClick team and Jonathan is doing a great job by integrating the products and as we're gaining more traction here.

HEATH TERRY: Thank you.

PATRICK PICHETTE: So just as we close the call, in conclusion I think it's just to reiterate the points Eric made at the very beginning of the call -- strong quarter, ending a strong year. I think pleased with the results, especially given the tough economic climate and all of this unchartered waters and territory we've gone through. We're delighted to have a healthy business through this. Clearly we are and remain focused on the long term, and we have confidence in our technology, our people, and the enduring power of the web that really pushes us. So with that, I'll turn it over to the operator and to close the call.

OPERATOR: Thank you. And this concludes today's conference. We thank you for your participation and you may now disconnect. If you're joining us for the second portion of today's call, please disconnect at this time and dial back in on the numbers that were provided for the second conference call. And again, if you're joining us for the second conference call today, you must disconnect at this time and dial back in for the second conference call, which begins at 17:00 Central standard time. Thank you, and have a good day.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Thank you, operator.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
goog : Google Inc.
   IN
i8395464 : Internet Search Engines | iint : Internet/Online Services
   NS
c11 : Plans/Strategy | c15 : Performance | ntra : Transcript | c151 : Earnings | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
ASC Partners, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020090129e51m0028u
  


 HD
 Q3  2008 Google Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
10,551 words
   PD
16 October 2008
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
Copyright 2008 by ASC Partners, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
OPERATOR: Good day, and welcome everyone to the Google Inc. conference call. This call is being recorded. At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Ms. Krista Bessinger. Please go ahead, ma'am.

   TD
KRISTA BESSINGER, IR, GOOGLE: Good afternoon, everyone, and welcome to today's third quarter 2008 earnings conference call. With us are Eric Schmidt, Chief Executive Officer, Patrick Pichette, Chief Financial Officer, Sergey Brin, Founder and President of Technology, Jonathan Rosenberg, Senior Vice President of Product Management, Omid Kordestani, Senior Vice President of Global Sales and Operations, who is joining us from London, and Hal Varian our Chief Economist. Eric, Patrick and Sergey will provide us with their thoughts on the quarter and then Jonathan, Omid and Hal will join us for Q&A. Please not that this call is being webcast from our investor relations website. Please also refer to our investor relations website for important earnings related documents, including our press release issued a few minutes ago along with slides that accompany today's remarks. A replay of this call will also be available on our investor relations website in a few hours. Now let me quickly cover the Safe Harbor.

Some of the statements we make today may be considered forward-looking, including statements regarding investments in our core business, traffic acquisition costs, operational efficiencies and costs and our expected level of capital expenditures. These statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially. Please note that these forward-looking statements reflect our opinions only as of the date of this presentation, and we undertake no obligation to revise or publicly release the results of any revision to these forward-looking statements in light of new information or future events. Please refer to our SEC filings, including our quarterly report on form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2008, as well as our earnings press release for a more detailed description of the risk factors that may affect our results. Copies can be obtained from the SEC or by visiting the investor relations section of our website. Also, please note that certain financial measures we use on this call such as EPS, net income, operating margin and operating income are expressed on a non-GAAP basis and have been adjusted to exclude charges related to stock-based compensation. We have also adjusted our net cash provided by operating activities to remove capital expenditures, which we refer to as free cash flow. Our GAAP results and GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliation can be found in our earnings press release. With that it is my pleasure to turn the call over to Eric.

ERIC SCHMIDT, CEO, GOOGLE: Thank you, very much, Krista. Good afternoon everybody. First, let me welcome Patrick Pichette, our CFO, who is off and hit the ground running. He certainly joined us at an interesting time. Before he goes into the detail, which of course everyone is quite interested in, let me just talk about some of the highlights. Thanks to everybody's hard work, Google had a good quarter. Traffic and revenue were both solid and we kept tight control on costs. Year-on-year, for example, search query traffic is growing in almost every vertical. And we believe that these results reflect the fact that as marketing budgets are squeezed, targeted, measurable ads are becoming more valuable to advertisers. And as consumer budgets are squeezed, people use the web for comparison shopping to hunt for bargains online and in stores.

Now the economic situation, I think everybody on the call and listening, understands that it is pretty clear the economic situation today globally is worse than people were predicting just a month ago. Just look at the difference in the papers. What started off as a financial crisis, appears at least according to the consensus around the world, to be affecting the wider economy. So when I talk the other CEOs in Europe and in America, it is clear that the economic situation is so fluid that we're all sort of in uncharted territory. The question is how should Google respond. Our answer looking at it is we have always managed for the long term and we believe that is even more today -- more important today than ever. Search which of course Google's core, is where we're putting a lot of our investment. Better search, better ads. Proof latency, our user experience is getting much better. Index size is getting much larger. Greater personalization for better results globally for every user. Lots and lots of language support, that sort of thing. More highly relevant ads against as many queries as possible and using more sophisticated tools for advanced bidding and measurement and optimization. So advertisers who understand that advertising is directly correlated with revenue can use those tools to maximize revenue based on the terms they set and based on the budgets that they care about.

So the opportunities, in addition to obviously to search and ads, in Apps, for example, a company is going to cut IT costs and increased productivity with greater collaboration, we're there for them. Our enterprise collaborations really add value there. In display, by improving targeting, we deliver better and more relevant ads for users and higher ROI for advertisers, agencies and publishers. The double click integration now going very well. David Rosenblatt from DoubleClick is now president of our display businesses, which is great. Youtube is now running 90% ads against 90% of all the content claimed by partners using our content ID tool. And we're experimenting with different advertising formats now well announced in video ads, click to buy and preroll. GeoLocal, another core component and opportunity for us, geographically relevant in location based advertising is valuable to users in our view, who are working developing advertising products that match ads to geographic data. We think that is a big opportunity for us.

So along the way, we're going to stay very close -- keep a very close eye on costs. It makes sense, given everything we read in the papers. And we have done that effectively this quarter. It is the right thing to do. And what I like about it -- and Sergey can talk about this a little bit if he'd like -- Sergey likes to say, scarcity builds clarity. I think it is a great focusing opportunity for Google as well. So we're very realistic about the macroeconomic climate, but we're optimistic about Google's future because we're confident about the enduring value and power of the web. Sergey will talk about this some more, but fundamentally people are moving to the internet, moving to more targeted advertising, are using information in a smarter way and Google is one of the significant beneficiaries of that. We fundamentally believe that users will always want information and need to communicate and advertisers will always value relevant and very measurable advertising, which of course these are Google's core strengths. So with that Sergey maybe you'd like to -- I'm sorry, Patrick maybe you should talk about our financials first then we will go over to Sergei.

PATRICK PICHETTE, CFO, GOOGLE: Thank you, Eric. And good afternoon everyone. So as Eric said a few minutes ago, we had another solid quarter, despite a challenging economic environment. A few numbers. Gross revenue was up 31% year-over-year to $5.5 billion, reflecting healthy growth across the Google -- both Google.com and our network. So Google.com was up 34% year-over-year, to $3.7 billion driven by steady traffic growth. And AdSense up 15% year-over-year to $1.7 billion, also reflecting solid growth across both content and search. Global aggregate paid click growth was also reasonably good. It was up 18% year-over-year and 4% quarter-over-quarter, reflecting healthy growth across all major properties. We saw also steady growth in the U.S. with revenues up 22% year-over-year to $2.7 billion and up 5% quarter-over-quarter. International revenue also held up reasonably well, accounting for 51% of our total revenue or $2.8 billion. The U.K. showed some softness, but up 17% year-over-year to $776 million, but essentially flat quarter-over-quarter including the impact of the currency. The rest of EMEA performed better, driven by relatively good performance in the Netherlands and Germany. Asia and Latin America were solid as well, mostly driven by relatively good performance in Brazil and China. From an advertiser's spend perspective, we saw a combination of strong relative performance in many verticals including home appliances, apparel, jobs, but also and not surprisingly some tougher performances in others such as home financing, auto financing, and real estate as everybody can imagine.

Let me turn to expenses now. To -- traffic acquisition costs were $1.5 billion in Q3 or 27.9% of total advertising revenue. This is down from 28.4 in Q2. AdSense TAC was $1.3 billion and Google TAC was $167 million. As we embark on new initiatives, we may see additional pressures on TAC rates going forward. Other costs of revenue have increased $4 million over Q2 to $678 million. The largest driver of the increase was data center related costs and those include depreciation, equipment and operations. All other operating expenses totaled $1.63 billion, including approximately $269 million in stock-based compensation and expenses related to payroll and facilities increased $49 million over Q2 to $859 million.. On the head count front, we finished the quarter with approximately 20,000 full-time employees. That's approximately 500 net new employees added in the quarter. And over half of these new net hires are in engineering, then followed by sales and marketing. We have implemented and continue to follow a disciplined hiring process in all areas of the organization. But as we have indicated in the past, we continue to invest in our core business, both in the U.S. and internationally. In consequence of all this management expense, the non-GAAP operating profit which excludes stock-based compensation, crossed the $2 billion threshold for the first time in Q3, driving non-GAAP operating profit margins to 36.5%. As Eric mentioned a little earlier in his comments it makes sense in the current economic environment to maintain a clear focus on operational efficiency and cost containment. And we have done so, and we will continue to do so, better positioning Google for healthy long term growth.

Let me move on to interest income and other, which was $21 million for the quarter. The primary driver for interest income and other are, on the positive side, a very strong cash balance, $14.4 billion. The annual interest we earn on that cash is currently in the 2 to 3% range. And we also had a small realized gain on investment of $11 million in Q3. These benefits are to large extent offset by the impact of our -- the rollout of our hedging program in Q3. So in Q3, our hedging expense and related impacts totaled approximately $80 million. Please note that we amortize the costs over the time value of our cash flow hedging programs in other income and expense on a monthly mark-to-market basis, not a straight line basis. So as a result, the amount of amortized expense we recognize in any particular quarter is impacted by how much the option moves in or out of the money, as well as the underlying currency volatility. So in particularly volatile periods, like the ones we're experiencing now, this can result in a front-end loading of experiences associated with the outstanding hedges as was in fact the case in Q3. So clearly, currency was working against us in this quarter. But on the good news, our hedging programs are in fact working well.

So a bit more on the hedging program, our ethics program should be viewed essentially as an insurance policy. Our programs are designated to protect us against future downside risk to revenue and earnings, reported in U.S. dollars. Our largest currency exposures are the euro, the Canadian dollar and the British pound and are now hedged. And over the coming year, we will roll out incremental hedges to cover much of the remaining exposure. So how does the accounting for all this hedging works? It is FAS133 which is a standard in U.S. accounting and we use FAS133 to account for our cash flow hedging programs. FAS133 is not a simple standard, this by any means. It is well worth the time to take to understand the basics and I encourage you to do so. We walk through some of those basics of FAS133 in our earnings slides deck, which I encourage you to reference. It is posted, as Krista mentioned, on our investor relations site. So the impact on Q3, before hedging, the recent strength of the U.S. dollar relative to other currencies had a negative impact of $59 million on revenues in Q3. We were able to recognize as a benefit, of approximately $34 million to revenues through the cash flow hedging this quarter.

So to understand why our hedging doesn't offset 100% of the negative impact of currency on revenue, it is important to remember three key factors. First, our cash flow hedges are designed to protect against a downside risk to earnings, not revenue. In second, our Q3 hedges, were made against three major currencies, the euro, the British pound and the Canadian dollar but not all currencies. And then finally our pound hedges were put late in the quarter. So with that, let me return to our financial results. I am pleased to report operating cash flow remains strong at $2.18 billion for the quarter. CapEx for the quarter was $452 million. We have invested very heavily in our data centers and are continuing to do so. As in previous quarters, the majority of our CapEx was related to IT infrastructure, including data center construction, production of servers and networking equipment. Because of economies of scale, however, as well as greater efficiencies in our system infrastructure and in some ways Moore's law, we can actually do a lot more today with less which is a positive trend for us. That said, we will certainly continue to make significant investments in CapEx in the future periods.

Finally, free cash flow. A non-GAAP measure we define as free cash flow from operation less CapEx, well, it remains strong at $1.73 billion, up 61% year-over-year. So in summary, our core business continues to demonstrate strength, despite a challenging economic environment. While we're focused on operational efficiency, we have and will continue to make crucial investments that are needed to drive value for our users, our advertisers and our partners. And before I hand it off to Sergey, I would like to take a moment to share with you some of my early thoughts on joining Google. So thanks Eric for the kind words at the front end of the conversation. First, let me say that I am delighted to be here and to join this company. This is the obviously a great team I am joining, and everything you hear is true. These are supersmart people. Tremendous integrity, positively ambitious for the Company and without a doubt a great winning combination. It is a great time to join Google and it is a real pleasure for me. Yes, the financial and economic environment is going to be -- is going through a lot of uncertainty, but with great uncertainty also comes tremendous opportunity. I look forward for leveraging my financial and operational background to take advantage of the tremendous opportunity in front of us and lead with the team the Company into the next phase of growth. With that, I would like to thank you for the time and I will turn it over the Sergey for his thoughts on the quarter. Thank you.

SERGEY BRIN, FOUNDER & PRESIDENT OF TECHNOLOGY, GOOGLE: Thanks Patrick. I would like to update you this quarter on many different improvements we made across the board. Let me start with our infrastructure. And I am talking about both the hardware and software infrastructure that powers all of our services. First of all, first of all, this quarter we significantly increased the size of our index. And to put this in perspective now, every four hours we index the same amount of information that is equal to the entire U.S. library of Congress. And I would encourage you, by the way, how can you see this? I encourage you to search for information that might not have that many references about it on the web, whether it is you know neighbor or local place, something like that, and just to see how much more information we have been able to put on the index. We have also worked a lot on our performance. And particularly, we have had a lot of improvements in search, especially if you use the Google toolbar, which I encourage you to do and Youtube, and also, many of our apps, especially calendar. And hopefully you will see the improvements as snappier performance when you come back and use these services now. We have also been working on our overall efficiency from an energy point of view. And I should report that our data centers now use several times less energy than typical facilities that would house and cool the -- the same number of computers that we would have.

Next moving on, search of course remains core to our business. And, now for the second quarter in a row we have launched over 100 search improvements during the quarter. So more than one per day. And this has obviously improved things for our users all around the world. Very important feature, Google Suggests, that we have had available in a variety of different interfaces and now is on Google.com is running in ten countries. And this actually really helps users and speeds them up much more than you might expect. As you're typing a query, we will fill out what are the likely -- what is likely query that you might want. Spelled correctly. And it really significantly speeds the overall search process. We also have continued to take our other corpuses that aren't just web pages, things such as books and videos, and we continue to blend more and more of those into the first page of results, across all of our domains. And the numbers of these blended results has increased significantly over the past quarter.

I would encourage you to try -- if you try searching, for example, for Michael Phelps, you will see video of swimming and whatnot. And this also is very, very powerful. Especially when you look at video, because people think of video as entertainment but in fact, video is a very compelling reference material. It is a really good way to learn something, to really understand it. And oftentimes you won't actually think to search for video. So for us to present it in the first page of results means people are going to get much higher quality information about what they are looking for than they otherwise would have..

On the business front, of course, advertising remains the vast majority of our revenue. And we continued to improve our ad systems. We have updated our quality-based bidding system, which helps weed out underperforming ads and gives us the opportunity to run better ads and generate a better return on investment for advertisers.. We have also made some changes to how we rate landing pages in terms of quality. And we really want to make sure that when our users click on ads, they are taken to useful sites. That way, people are encouraged to click on ads in the future. In fact, on the whole, I should mention that our ads, -- ad is a significant amount of high quality material to our search and we believe it -- they overall increase our overall search quality experience. We have also been working hard of course on display ads, as Eric mentioned, with David Rosenblatt now heading that entire operation, now with DoubleClick integrated, and -- and -- and the various properties that we have with potential display inventory, we are really moving along. And we have made about two dozen improvements to our content network over this past quarter. And just last week, we launched a new category, AdSense for games. And about -- over 200 million people play web-based games every week. And we -- our network already reaches almost 10% of them, just at launch. So we're very excited about that.

Speaking of display inventory, I just want to talk a little bit about Youtube. And they have been experimenting with a number of monetization methods. We have now, the click-to-buy feature that you might have seen, where now if you watch a Youtube video, that either could be a user uploaded video or uploaded by, for example, a studio and now people can just click-to-buy either CD or a video or other content that is -- that is relevant to that video. And this is -- this is obviously a benefit to both end users as well as the publishers and presents great monetization opportunity. I should -- I should also mention that we have launched full length videos from CBS within stream ads. And that means they can be preroll, mid-roll and post roll. And these full length videos really take Youtube to another level of offering a completely different kind of video than one would typically expect on that site. We have also been investing a lot in geographic and local information. And I am sure many or all of you have used Google Maps and Google Earth. And they are really big monetization opportunity because they are such a local searches and there are many local businesses. Now we have -- we have been able to expand just the data available there, so we can provide a better end user experience by launching Map Maker to over 100 additional countries. This is our product that lets end users create and edit the maps for their own countries and regions. And by doing so the users have already added over 50,000 kilometers of roads and 75,000 business listings. I should mention that -- that an increasing percentage of our local search queries now deliver user generated maps content.

We have launched Street View in Japan and Australia and we saw significant increases in usage there. And of course Street View is now available on Blackberries and many JAVA enabled phones in addition to the other phones that already had it.. This -- it -- it can be pretty handy. When you do a search for now a business, a store, a restaurant, something like that, you can just click on the Street View and see what it actually looks like and make sure that's the place you want to go.. And as I mentioned before, now with the -- the ability to do that on -- on phones, it is very handy. Now speaking of phones, we of course had a very important announcement this past quarter, which is our new Android operating system and -- which is launching first on the T-Mobile G1. These phones, by the way, you can get them starting next week and at your T-Mobile store. I have been using mine for a few months now as my primary phone. And it has been very, very helpful. It really integrates Google services very nicely on the phone, it has a really great web browser. I am able to search and brows through my gmail just as if I were at my desk top. And, the G1 is just the first of a number of phones that will hopefully be running Android. And you should take note of all of the partners we have built in the open handset alliance. I would encourage you all to try you it out and if it suits your need then please, by all means, get an Android phone.

Moving on. We have been busy at work as Eric mentioned on Enterprise. Now we have over 1 million businesses using Google Apps. In fact we have launched Google video for your business as part of our Apps premiere edition. You may think of video like Youtube does basically for your business as sort of the last thing that might be needed in a business. But in fact we have had great demand for it. And internally we use video a lot. We have so many internal talks that we are able to record and then the people who miss it can just watch it online. And we have had just a great amount of demand by businesses for this. I think this will be a very compelling feature to our Google Apps product.. In addition to businesses, Google Apps are increasingly being adopted by universities. Now over a million students use Google Apps just a couple years after launch. And we have had dozens of universities and colleges deploy Apps since the new year just started, including Indiana University, University of Virginia, Georgia Washington, and many others.

Now lastly, I wanted to tell you something I am really excited about and I am sure many of you saw. It is the launch of Google Chrome, which is our new web browser. As you know, we create a lot of web services, and an increasing challenge to us is to have a robust enough platform to be able to run those web services quickly and reliably. And Chrome does both of those things. It has an incredibly fast JAVA script engine, which we're really excited about, called V8. And in addition, it has a process model that is much more robust. Now, if you have a problem with one tab in your browser, you can just kill that tab and your browser just keeps running just fine. Whereas in the past, number of browsers if you had one tab hang, it could hang the entire browser. We are continuing to improve it and we have opened sourced it entirely. So not just Google but the whole community is improving Chrome. And we hope that it -- it obviously continues to improve Chrome, but also, it -- it raises the bar for all browsers. Because we want all the web platforms out there more capable, so we can more easily deploy our services. All in all, it has been a very busy quarter at Google. We have had so many announcements, launches, so many improvements, it is really hard to keep track. And I appreciate -- I appreciate all of you following it. Thank you and talk to you next quarter.

ERIC SCHMIDT: Well, thank you very much, Sergei. You are going to stay for the Q&A for a few minutes, too.

SERGEY BRIN: Good point.

ERIC SCHMIDT: Thank you Patrick as well. Why don't we -- we will have Hal, Jonathan and Omid join us and maybe we could just move to questions Krista.

KRISTA BESSINGER: Yes we're ready do queue up for questions, operator.

OPERATOR: Thank you. (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS) And we will take our first question from Imran Khan from JPMorgan.

IMRAN KHAN, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Hi. Thank you very much for taking my question. Question about the economy and what trend you are seeing. I think as Eric you talked about that, the economy seems like weakening over the last four weeks or so, that I have been hearing the same thing. Can you give us some color like how is your business trend, July, August, versus September. Did you see the business weakening significantly in the month of September or if you can give us some color what kind of trends you're seeing in October. And the second question is regarding the network revenue. Excluding TAC, it seems like network revenue growth rate decelerated quite a bit. I was trying to understand that better. Thank you.

ERIC SCHMIDT: Thanks Imran. I will ask Hal to help me here. We see fluctuations and they are more complex than they may appear. Some things go up, some things go down. Obviously it is going to change as the global financial crisis sort of moves through. It also varies by country and by region. Hal?

HAL VARIAN, CHIEF ECONOMIST, GOOGLE: Yes, I think I can give you a little color on some of the things that have been going on. As you know, we don't give guidance with respect to our internal numbers, but we have a nice tool out there called search insights where you can take the pulse of the consumer, and if you look in the last several weeks, there has been this almost obsession with the financial markets. Huge increases in queries on money market mutual funds, buy gold, 401(k)s, banking crisis, LIBOR, home safes. So right now, I think it is very difficult to really extrapolate from the current period where you have got this major event going on, really a once in a lifetime event, let's all hope it is once in a lifetime. So the -- it is very hard to tell what things are going to look like on a going forward basis.

ERIC SCHMIDT: Jonathan you have a view on this.

JONATHAN ROSENBERG, SVP, PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT, GOOGLE: Just very quickly on the second question, which I didn't think Hal got to the network deceleration, there is really two things that you want to look at. Some of it is a function of quality efforts, and the other is basically a function of (inaudible) flow and the large partners that we have that are participating. So those are the two things you need to look at. Landing page quality which Sergey mentioned in his -- in his introductory remarks relates to the quality issues.

IMRAN KHAN: Got it. Thank you, and Hal, agree hope it is a one time event of our lifetime.

ERIC SCHMIDT: Our next question.

OPERATOR: And we will go next to Mark Mahaney from Citi.

MARK MAHANEY, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Thanks. I wanted to ask two questions, please. First to do with thoughts on cost. Eric you talked about needing to be more cognizant of cost structure in a deteriorating economic environment and what is going to be a severe recession. Does that mean you cut back just on operating costs or would there be a point where you would actually delay materially major investment priorities like mobile. And quick question to Sergey. Could you just talk broadly about what in display advertising you think can be fixed or what are the major information that could be brought to display advertising that we haven't seen before? When you look at that, what do you see that Google could bring to that market? Thank you.

ERIC SCHMIDT: Mark, in the question of investments, Google has shown courage, when we need to. And we also intend during this period to show very responsible management of our expenses. Patrick, do you want to talk a little bit about how you're structuring this.

PATRICK PICHETTE: Sorry, I got off mute. Yes, absolutely. In these uncertain economic environments and I think that we have seen it through the Q3 results, I think that the company is very responsible in managing its cost base to make sure that we are adapting to the environment in which we are operating. So operational efficiencies and cost containment have been in place for a couple of quarters already. And they continue to do so. So we're adapting. We're very nimble and very agile in this and will continue to be. On the second question that you have made -- I mean, obviously, strategic investments are strategic investments. And those -- you separate them from day-to-day operations and every time we have a great opportunity, we're going to jump on it. And as I said in my comments, the basics of CapEx infrastructure is the fundamental infrastructure for the Company. We're not going to stop. That's the balance we're striving.

ERIC SCHMIDT: Sergey, the second part of the question.

SERGEY BRIN: Yes, on display. I think there is certainly a lot of opportunities on display. And let's just not forget when we first got started with ad words or the predecessors to ad words it took us a number of years, for those things to even catch up to what then was the big dollar numbers of the display advertising and finally, to show the incredible power for both advertisers and end users of search-based advertising. So I think, we could see the same thing with display, where it takes actually a while to mature with the new model. And one of the things that I think is very valuable for display, even though it might be more brand focused, you still really care about targeting and showing the right ads to the right edit users at the right times and try to show them things they might be interested in. And you might want to have a return, not be a click necessarily but just be the -- the branding and having -- generating awareness. But nonetheless, you really want to reach the right people. Now, another part of that is we have great measurement tools, so what happens after people might see an ad and how might they act differently, we also have access now to a vast -- a variety of inventory ranging from obviously our AdSense network to a variety of our DoubleClick technologies can give you access to more inventory and finally, our properties such as Youtube and (inaudible). So, we still see this as an area that is ripe for development and innovation. And we think that we can continue to create great tools for display. And this includes, by the way, things like not just -- we're not just talking about banner ads on web pages. It includes AdSense for games as I mentioned earlier. It includes feeds, it includes video like Youtube and other sites. So -- a big opportunity.

ERIC SCHMIDT: Let's go to our next question.

OPERATOR: We will take our next question from Brian Pitz from Banc of America Securities.

BRIAN PITZ, ANALYST, BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES: Thank you. You announced three changes relatively recently, in particular, replacing minimum with first page bids, that was I think late in Q3. Would you talk about the early impact these changes are having on the auction process? Thanks.

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: Yes, this is Jonathan. The -- that particular quality-based bidding effort I think was launched around the first week of September. And basically, the impact that that has is the quality score is calculated realtime on each query. So what was happening previously was key words that were inactive -- key words were inactive and not available based on the quality dynamic. And what is happening now is, there are key words that are able to participate in every auction, because we're calculating it realtime. So it is basically allowing us to get what were previously in active key words to compete in the auction more successfully based on the realtime calculation. That is pretty much it.

BRIAN PITZ: Any major impacts so far that you're seeing or is it -- how long will it take to really work its way through.

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: As far as the quality announcements that we typically talk about, it certainly is one of the bigger things we did in the quarter. And typically these things tend to manifest themselves in terms of their impact, reasonably expeditiously after the launch. So I think that most of the benefit of the typical quality enhancements are -- are real very, very quickly.

ERIC SCHMIDT: And it is important to remind everybody that we make -- very commonly make 1 0, 20, 30, 40, 50 quality improvements in a quarter. These are just some of the better known ones. But we're constantly tuning based on our quality testing and again globally as well.

BRIAN PITZ: Great, thanks.

ERIC SCHMIDT: Our next question?

OPERATOR: And we will go next to Christa Quarles from Thomas Weisel Partners.

CHRISTA QUARLES, ANALYST, THOMAS WEISEL PARTNERS: My question is really related to the yahoo deal. Eric were you surprised by the vitriol in the response from the advertisers out there. Clearly there is reality in how this thing functions versus the perception. So I would be curious, how are you approaching the government kind of meddling in your ability to function and operate and how are you responding as it relates to Yahoo/Google arrangement?

ERIC SCHMIDT: Well, Krista thank you. I will let you -- you used the phrase meddling. And I'm not going to be using that phrase. When we did the deal, we understood that the deal would be both controversial, that our competitors would oppose it and they would oppose it using every tactic that they could, and also that there was a proper role for the legal review process. So, we anticipated a -- what turned out to be roughly four-month delay literally to give everybody time to talk about it. And we're hopefully nearing the end of that period and we're obviously in communications with the justice department and the other groups that are doing it. With respect to the advertiser reaction, we have seen a balance of reactions. We have seen some large advertisers complain. We have seen other large advertisers say that this is ultimately good for our businesses. I obviously have a bias on this question, and in my view, many of the complaints are based on the fact that people don't understand how the auctions really work and the benefits that auctions provide. Auctions provide really a clearing price for accurate value. And because the prices in our auction are largely set by people who can back-solve to the cost per acquisition, the cost per click and the revenue that we get is largely sort of -- tie it all together, Hal in fact wrote a blog post yesterday precisely on this issue because there has been so much sort of confusion about it. Hal do you want to sort of comment on that?

HAL VARIAN: Sure, we have been making a concerted effort to try to educate people more about how our model works. One thing we were a bit surprised in is even people who had been using ad words didn't necessarily understand how and why it functions the way it does. So we're really trying across the board to communicate better with all the sectors that we serve.

ERIC SCHMIDT: So our next question.

OPERATOR: And we will go next to Ben Schachter from UBS.

BEN SCHACHTER, ANALYST, UBS: Hey, guys, congratulations on a nice quarter.

ERIC SCHMIDT: Yes, thanks.

BEN SCHACHTER: In order for the display strategy to work, do you think you need to offer more inventory on your own sites or can it become meaningful just through better penetration of the AdSense network. And also on Google Checkout in the past there have been a lot of discussion around the badges and how they have increased click through rates and conversion. Seems there is less of an emphasis on that product. Does it make sense to potentially work with Paypal moving forward? And one last housekeeping one, if you look at depreciation in cost of goods less TAC, they seem to be flat quarter over quarter, which has never happened before. Thanks.

ERIC SCHMIDT: So you actually got three question in. So Patrick you will do the third one. Omid can you -- and thanks Ben for that. Can you -- can you talk a little bit about display and checkout?

OMID KORDESTANI, SVP, GLOBAL SALES & OPERATIONS, GOOGLE: Sure. But I am calling from London, so please let me know if the -- the voice is not getting through correctly. We -- as we mentioned earlier, we put a concerted effort across all the regions in our product teams and brought Dave Rosenblatt into the position with his vast experience from DoubleClick to help us relate the pieces all together and bring a great focus in our execution. And simply, our objective here is that -- that we want to marry the -- the art of display which is the engagement it offers with the science of search advertising relevancy and measurability. We have a lot of inventory, great inventory, both across our content network already and across Youtube. And that our goal really is to focus both on the advertisers and publishers here for advertisers, really scaling the advertising process for media planning, buying, selling all the way to optimization for publishers helping with increasing the yield that they are experiencing. And we -- we have had great, great headways already in Q3. We had NBC Olympics.com using DoubleClick serving ads to over 30 million Eunuch users. In Europe, auto IS used the platform very effectively to increase the number of transactions and reduce the cost per transaction by 33%. So this measurability and reach is already very effective across our -- our network and our existing properties. And it is just a -- as Sergey mentioned, a long term focus for us to get all the pieces together and execute and grow the business. As far as Checkout goes, I think -- again, I -- we continue to evaluate what is -- what is the best ways to focus and utilize the existing headway we have made. And there is really nothing really new to announce here other than we're considering what -- how best to apply the service, going forward. And we're open to all kinds of options and we will evaluate it as we see the results.

ERIC SCHMIDT: And Patrick, do you want to handle the last question?

PATRICK PICHETTE: Yes, I would just like a clarification. Is it about D&A specifically or is it OpEx excluding D&A and TAC that was the question.

BEN SCHACHTER: No, it was really looking at the depreciation and then looking at the costs of goods less the TAC. If you look at those excluding stock comp, they're both flat quarter over quarter and that's never happened.

PATRICK PICHETTE: What we have done is in the first part of the year we had accelerated some depreciation amortization on a bunch of equipment and that has flowed through. That is really the core driver of that.

BEN SCHACHTER: Thank you.

ERIC SCHMIDT: Thanks. Next question.

OPERATOR: We will go next to Doug Anmuth from Barclay's Capital.

DOUG ANMUTH, ANALYST, BARCLAY'S CAPITAL: First question is for Sergey. You made some comments last quarter indicating that coverage may have dipped too low. Can you talk about what you did with coverage during 3Q and a little bit on your updated view on that and a second one for Hal. Can you just talk about how advertisers are changing their behavior and strategy in terms of key word bidding in this environment and what is happening with average costs per click and what is happening with ROIs as well. Thank you.

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: Yes, sure. Hi, Doug. I can start briefly on coverage and maybe Sergey can follow up. I think one of the things that we have probably done a better job in the last year or so, is we have done a much better job of eliminating the bad ads than we have introducing functionality that makes it particularly easy to enable good ads. And this isn't really a dial that we just want to turn. We have a very clear goal, which is to show as many high relevant ads against queries as possible and there are lots and lots of queries still out there that we can do better on. We have a good list of those, particularly complicated long queries, or queries that have very diverse meaning. Queries with modifiers, for example,. If you look on say Wii games we have -- we have ads. But if you type in best Wii games we don't. Your plumber isn't on ad words. So the goal isn't really to explicitly try to figure out how do we get coverage up. The goal is to figure out how do we add the bidding functionality so that advertisers can serve better ads. It's actually looking at the components of the RPM equation which we don't break out much. Generally you're seeing what we have said in the past, which is that coverage is in the ballpark of the historic lows.

HAL VARIAN: With respect to the advertiser behavior side, people focus on this aggregate cost per click measure. And as we have said before, it is misleading because it is aggregating across the entire world, and it is aggregating across ad words and AdSense, and so relatively small changes in the mix can show up in that number. We don't really think it reflects the -- actual advertiser behavior in a very clear way. Our experience is advertisers are willing to take all the clicks we can give them at the current CPC, and even in tough times, we think that will continue to be true, because nobody wants to turn away a customer. So, we think that's actually a pretty solid number and will continue to be so.

SERGEY BRIN: Yes, this is Sergei. And -- I -- you're exactly right. That's what I know the last quarter. I should mention that we have made progress. For example, the quality-based bidding launch we talked about earlier increased our coverage significantly. And you know fundamentally, as Jonathan says, look at page of our web search results. I think we're far from the ideal set of advertisements, and there are many advertisers that I think ought to be showing up in certain situations that aren't for a variety of reasons. So, I think there is certainly opportunity to give venues a better higher quality, advertisers that are going to add to their overall search quality experience.

ERIC SCHMIDT: Okay. Thank you. Thanks Sergey. Our next question.

OPERATOR: And we will go next to Justin Post from Merrill Lynch.

JUSTIN POST, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: Thanks. Now that have you had a bunch of mobile phone launches, I am wondering if you can give us an update on what you're seeing on the query volumes and maybe an estimate on when that could be maybe 5% of your total volumes and then on the currency, I think you said it cost you $80 million in the quarter. That is one time as you established the hedges or is this an ongoing thing that could last a few more quarters.

ERIC SCHMIDT: This is Eric. We said publicly, for the last few months that we're seeing an explosion in mobile search volume. It is -- a lot of it has been enabled by the fact that these new sets of devices have much more powerful browsers. So they are on 3G or EVO networks and they have more powerful browsers and people are busy browsing just an amazing amount of time. We don't show the exact numbers, but I can tell that you the compound growth rate is one of the fastest growing things in the Company. Patrick, you want to answer the second part? Yes, the $80 million was, in both Q2 and Q3 -- because we have launched these programs and put them in place, they are much higher than what you can expect in the future. In fact, we have got the 18-month programs mostly in place for the three big currencies I talked about and now we are going to be in maintenance mode, so from that perspective it will be less.

JUSTIN POST: And if the currencies keep -- the U.S. dollar keeps appreciating, will you continue to see a revenue benefit.

PATRICK PICHETTE: As you put hedges over the long term, yes, the answer is yes.

JUSTIN POST: Thank you.

ERIC SCHMIDT: You're assuming it will or will not. So, we never know. Yes, we never know when the currency is going to go up or down. Let's -- let's move to our next question.

OPERATOR: We will go next to Ross Sandler from RBC Capital Markets.

ROSS SANDLER, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Thanks for taking my question. Two quick questions. First on the retail category. So eBay painted a disastrous picture for ecommerce and the consumer in general last night, stating that there was a meaningful slowdown in activity beginning in August and kind of deteriorating into mid-October. Clearly, that company is having some specific issues. But you didn't mention retail as a category weakness in your prepared remarks and judging by your numbers, especially in the U.S., that would suggest that you're pretty well diversified. So can you comment on the current trends in the retail category? And then second on the U.K., Google changed its policy on bidding on gambling key words this morning and it appears that those ads go live tomorrow. So unlike prior policy changes, this one was delivered with a little advanced notice. Agencies got the criteria this morning, and campaigns go live right away. So any reason for the quick rollout there? Thanks very much.

ERIC SCHMIDT: We will have Omid, since he's in London, answer the second question. The first question, we have sort of looked at what we think will happen in the next few quarters. And the problem is that there is so much uncertainty now in the financial markets, in the press, and in potential government action, and so forth, it is very, very hard for us to give you a sense of what is going to happen in retail or any other category between now and the Christmas season or over the next 12 months or so forth. Hal, you have looked at the various categories. Can you give some macro comments about categories for us?

HAL VARIAN: When you look at the U.S. aggregate statistics, we definitely saw weakness in U.S. offline retail. The numbers that are reported by the government. One thing that we think at Google is that when there is a recessionary environment, people are counting their pennies, are going to be researching their purchases, looking for bargains, and this potentially has something of an upside for Google, where we referred to this last time I called it the Wal-Mart effect. That as people shop more carefully, they are going to be researching the things they buy. So as Eric said, we don't really know what is going to happen. This is a speculative statement but, we -- we think that this kind of effect could actually work to Google's benefit potentially.

ERIC SCHMIDT: And Omid, do you want to comment on the U.K.?

OMID KORDESTANI: Sure. I think to be honest with you, this is one of the benefits we have now of much tighter attention to every aspect of our international operations. We now have both (inaudible) head of EMEA and Tim Armstrong, head of Americas, attending (inaudible) meetings and there is frankly a set of policies and questions that the market had put on us and we really are being much more responsive to these things to our sales organization and change these policies very quickly to address to the market demands. And so, I think you -- we will definitely work with our agency partners and customers to make the transition as smooth as possible.

ERIC SCHMIDT: Thanks. So our next question?

OPERATOR: We will go next to Jeffrey Lindsay from Sanford Bernstein.

JEFFREY LINDSAY, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: Thank you for taking my question. We just wanted to get a little bit more clarification on the improvement in margins. And was this due in any way to improved terms on the AdSense deals or was it primarily expense controlled? And if it was expense-controlled, was that really through avoided hiring or was there actually any staff reduction? Thank you.

PATRICK PICHETTE: I can answer. The -- on the expense side, across all categories of expenses, people have been very diligent over the last 90 days, and I can -- and on the specifics of hiring, I mean, we have continue to hire. We just -- in many areas we're continue to hire because we have a lot of needs and then what we're doing is just doing it responsibly. So there -- we will continue to hire, that is why you see the net improvement in head count. And -- but it is truly broadly across all categories of expenses that we're focusing. (Inaudible) I think that covers it.

ERIC SCHMIDT: I'm not aware of changes that would -- on the ad or ad partnership side that would result in margin change. Omid?

OMID KORDESTANI: No.

ERIC SCHMIDT: Our next question.

OPERATOR: And we will take our next question from Youssef Squali from Jefferies.

YOUSSEF SQUALI, ANALYST, JEFFERIES & CO.: Two quick ones. First on CapEx. If I look at CapEx this quarter, so $450 million was the lowest we have seen since Q1 of 2006. Are we at a point, well, basically the bulk of the infrastructure is already built and now any incremental is all that much smaller. Is CapEx starting to normalize? And second, the question for Sergey, you talked earlier about GeoLocal, with products like Maps and Earth as being monetization opportunity. We talked about them for a long time and they remain opportunities. I guess one of the issues there has been this direct access to the advertisers, to the local merchant. Have you -- are we any -- are we closer to kind of cracking the code on that?

ERIC SCHMIDT: Patrick, you want to give a sense of CapEx?

PATRICK PICHETTE: Yes, with pleasure. I mean essentially, CapEx is a lumpy business in many instances. So think of data centers going up and down. I mean, one quarter you have it, one quarter you don't so we're going to continue to invest in CapEx. We are going to continue to invest heavily in CapEx, so we have no plans of slowing down. What you see here is just a nature of that lumpiness. We're obviously getting better at it. So with efficiencies, every extra unit of capacity is cheaper for us, so we're going to benefit that.

YOUSSEF SQUALI: Were there any costs pushed out in CapEx into Q4?

PATRICK PICHETTE: No, none.

YOUSSEF SQUALI: Okay.

ERIC SCHMIDT: And Sergey and maybe Jonathan, you want to talk a little bit about the GeoLocal ad opportunity.

SERGEY BRIN: Yes, let me talk about it and certainly GeoLocal has been a substantial source of investments on the part of our Company. And, you're -- you're absolutely right. It is -- I think it is a really big monetization opportunity. But it is going to have a pretty long bootstrap time, because there are so many small businesses, and you have to get them all in the loop and with technologies evolving quickly with respect to things shifting to mobile phones and some will have GPS now, some of them don't, some have cell IDs and things -- I do think that this is an investment that we're going to have to keep -- keep investing in for some time until we get really big payoff. But I should mention we already have fairly substantial revenues from GeoLocal. So, it is not the case that somehow this is -- a -- I mean, this is a -- a good chunk of our business, and I expect that when we do finally bootstrap it -- lots and lots of local advertisers, and, when there is some settling of the best user experiences for doing this both on mobile devices as well as on their desktops, I think you will see a substantial ramp there.

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: Eric did you want me to add anything? Yes, so this is Jonathan. I guess the biggest thing I would reinforce from Sergey's comments is this is an area where we're winning. You know Maps is the most popular mapping site in the world. We have all sorts of data now for over 160 countries. We're also doing some very exciting things in terms of ramping our ability to get data for areas where there aren't very good maps, where we're harnessing the power of users to enter information in. And on the local side, what we're doing really goes beyond the traditional yellow page types of activities. I mean we're taking all the information that a business would want a user to see, reviews, hours of operation, photos, web results, and we're embedding all of those onto these maps have, which have a great deal of traffic. So if you just run a query, steak house in Chicago or something like that. And when you click on the map and select a particular listing you can now do things like click on Street View and actually see the restaurant. So we're very, very pleased with the traffic that is being driven. And one other thing I would actually suggest you try one of the coolest maps applications I saw, go to swisstrains.ch to see the precision of Swiss trains in real time. You will actually get a visceral sense of what it is going to be like for people when all of this stuff works on their browsers and works in mobile devices.

ERIC SCHMIDT: And let's go ahead and, Krista, I think we -- this -- we've sort of run out of time, maybe this should be our last question.

KRISTA BESSINGER: This is our last question please.

OPERATOR: Our last question is from Jeetil Patel from Deutsche Bank.

JEETIL PATEL, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Thank you. Quick -- just one last question but -- on your AdSense syndication network, can you talk about the rollout of the quality score initiative. I guess is it still a first half '09 rollout or perhaps a little longer. And I guess have you learned anything around the testing that you're doing there or are you still tweaking that?

ERIC SCHMIDT: So again, you're using the word "quality score". Could you just precisely define what you mean?

JEETIL PATEL: I guess the scoring index you're looking at for your syndication network, so kind of rating each partner out there. Just curious, how that -- I guess how that initiative or program that you're looking at launching is progressing.

ERIC SCHMIDT: It is actually in the process of being launched. A number of partners are already working with it. And the plan is to get it done in early next year. So -- and obviously we spend a lot of time with them to make sure that their sites are done properly and our system responds properly to their query traffic and so forth.

JEETIL PATEL: Got it. And I guess how often will the scoring system change. Will it be realtime or will it be fixed for a month at a time or quarter at a time?

ERIC SCHMIDT: We tend to be very dynamic, because these systems have feedback in them. So as they learn, they get better at judging what is a higher quality click. And as they learn they get better and better and that's why it is such a nice model.

SERGEY BRIN: Yes. Oh -- this is Sergey. It's probably worth adding, we have had this sort of system in place for AdSense for content for a long, long time. And, so now it is the sort of the extension of that into AdSense for search. And these are obviously some of our larger customers that have significant implementations and we're taking our time to roll it out in a way that is kind of sensible for both us and them. But -- but this is something that we have been doing for a long time with AdSense for content and now will be applied more broadly.

ERIC SCHMIDT: So, why don't we go ahead and finish up? I want to thank everybody for spending time. Everybody is very busy with all the things going on around the world. Thank you for our panelists on our call-in today. And from my perspective, there is an awful lot of stuff going on in the world. There are an awful lot of actions that we hope will be taken correctly by governments around the world, by the bankers and by the institutions that are there to make sure our system runs well. We have a duty and a responsible to run Google well. We take a long term view. We have the opportunity before us and we have the time and the patience to build a great future, which is what we hope will happen for everybody. So thank you very much.

OPERATOR: And this concludes today's conference. We thank you for your participation. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
goog : Google Inc.
   IN
i8395464 : Internet Search Engines | iint : Internet/Online Services
   NS
c11 : Plans/Strategy | c15 : Performance | ntra : Transcript | c151 : Earnings | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe
   PUB
ASC Partners, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020081030e4ag002jq
  


 HD
 Q2  2008 Google Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
9,929 words
   PD
17 July 2008
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.     

   LP
OPERATOR: Good day and welcome, everyone, to the Google Inc. conference call. This call is being recorded. At this time I would like to turn the call over to Ms. [Krista Bessinger], Director of Investor Relations. Please go ahead, ma'am.

KRISTA BESSINGER, IR, GOOGLE: Good afternoon, everyone, and welcome to today's second-quarter 2008 earnings conference call. We have a slightly different lineup today. With us are Eric Schmidt, Chief Executive Officer; George Reyes, Chief Financial Officer; Sergey Brin, Founder and President of Technology; Jonathan Rosenberg, Senior Vice President of Product Management; Omid Kordestani, Senior Vice President of Global Sales and Operations; and Hal Varian, our Chief Economist. Eric, George, Hal and Sergey will provide us with their thoughts on the quarter, and then Jonathan and Omid will join us for Q&A.

   TD
Please note that this call is being web cast from our Investor Relations web site, and our press release issued a few minutes ago is also posted on the web site along with slides that accompany today's prepared remarks. A replay of this call will also be available on our Investor Relations web site in a few hours.

Now let me quickly cover the Safe Harbor. Some of the statements we make today may be considered forward-looking, including statements regarding investments in our core business, seasonality, traffic acquisition costs, increase in the cost of sales, international growth, statements regarding the benefits of our acquisition of DoubleClick and our expected level of capital expenditures. These statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially. Please note that these forward-looking statements reflect our opinions only as of the date of this presentation, and we undertake no obligation to revise or publicly release the results of any revision to these forward-looking statements in light of new information or future events. Please refer to our SEC filings, including our quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31st, 2008, as well as our earnings press release, for a more detailed description of the risk factors that may affect our results. Copies can be obtained from the SEC or by visiting the Investor Relations section of our website.

Also please note that certain financial measures we use on this call, such as EPS, net income, operating margin and operating income, are expressed on a non-GAAP basis and have been adjusted to exclude charges relating to stock-based compensation. We have also adjusted our net cash provided by operating activities to remove capital expenditures, which we refer to as free cash flow. Our GAAP results and GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliation can be found in our earnings press release.

With that, it's my pleasure to turn the call over to Eric.

ERIC SCHMIDT, CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD, CEO, GOOGLE: Thank you very much, Krista. We're obviously very pleased with what we believe are good results in one of the weaker quarters in our normal yearly cycle. The traffic and revenue growth is strong across all regions and verticals. Traffic and revenue have held up well despite uncertain economic conditions, as everybody knows.

International, of course, a big emphasis for Google is once again contributing more than 50% of our revenue, good growth in rapidly growing markets such as Brazil and China. We continue, of course, to make critical and fundamental investments in the infrastructure of the things that are most important and, in particular, our search. We continue to scale our index, we continue to make sure that our information is the freshest possible, and we are reducing latency or delay that people experience. So, as a result, we're continuing to deliver on our fundamental mission of the most relevant and fastest results, web and other kind of information.

In ads, in addition to all of the normal ad improvements that we see, the partnership with Yahoo! was obviously the signature event. David Drummond testified two days ago during -- both to the House and Senate -- I liked it so much I wanted to read it. The Internet is a dynamic and competitive environment, and that's due to the openness that has been a hallmark since its inception. Our nonexclusive commercial agreement -- it's very important, by the way, nonexclusive -- with Yahoo! will maintain and expand that competition, create some new efficiencies that will benefit consumers, advertisers and publishers while protecting privacy and spurring innovation. Google and Yahoo! will remain fierce competitors. This continuing competition will help fuel innovation that's good for the Internet, users, good for the Internet and good for the economy. Openness, interoperability and competition are central to our culture at Google, central to the vibrancy of the Internet and central to the growth of a free market. We believe that the nonexclusive ad deal -- remember, it's not a search deal -- that was done with Yahoo! is a win for the industry primarily because it allows Yahoo! to remain independent, which we believe is very pro-competitive.

DoubleClick, of course, is the other big piece of news. Integration is now underway and going very smoothly, but display is a big opportunity. It's a big opportunity, by the way, because the strategy of offering values to advertisers and publishers is one that we can offer very much worldwide.

Putting our team together, of course, we have really now delivered on this global organization that everybody here knows about and it's beginning to bear fruit. [Angle R] for example, developed some great new ad tools that were delivered last quarter. Zurich created our new Insight feature on YouTube which lets anyone who uploads a video see traffic information. [Hypha] developed another great new YouTube feature called [Imitations]. My point here is not to highlight the hundreds and hundreds of ones that happen all the time, every quarter, but to say it really is a global company.

So we now have more than 30 products that support more than 30 languages, up from five products and 30 languages just a year ago. So people want to use Google in their own language, and we are delivering on that.

Just to finish up in my hopefully short comments, we are very, very happy to have Patrick Pichette on board as our new CFO with his 20 years of experience in financial operations and management in the telco industry. I've talked to him, he's coming up to speed. He's going to be a tremendous contributor at the Google level for many years to come. We're very, very excited about that.

And I want to make sure that we thank, once again, George Reyes, my friend and colleague for more than 20 years, George; stayed on board even more than a year after he announced his intent to retire. This shows you the kind of person that he is, to try to help Google and help all of us meet our objective. He's made a tremendous contribution to Google, which we've highlighted before. We are going to miss him and we're very much looking forward to working with Patrick.

In our order today we're going to have George, who I've just highlighted so I can boast about him some more, but I'll make him too embarrassed, and then we'll have him followed by Hal Varian. Larry is out this week. Hal is our chief economist, and there have been so many questions about Yahoo!/Google economics and so forth. Hal is the perfect person to talk about how does the auction really work and what does the global environment mean for Google. George, do you want to take it away?

GEORGE REYES, SVP, CFO, GOOGLE: We had another strong quarter with gross revenue increasing 39% over Q2 of 2007 to $5.4 billion. Google.com performed well, up 42% year over year to $3.5 billion, driven by strong traffic growth and, to a lesser extent, monetization. AdSense revenue grew 22% over Q2 of 2007 but was down slightly on a sequential basis, reflecting a continued focus on delivering high-quality traffic to our advertisers and typical Q2 seasonality.

Now let's take a look at aggregate paid clicks. Aggregate paid clicks include clicks related to ads served on Google properties as well as ads served on our partner sites. Aggregate paid clicks grew approximately 19% over Q2 of 2007 and were down slightly on a sequential basis, again reflecting a continued focus on delivering high-quality traffic to our advertisers and typical Q2 seasonality.

Now I'll discuss our international performance. International revenue accounted for 52% of revenue, or $2.8 billion. The UK was solid with revenues of $774 million, up 29% year over year but down 4% sequentially, reflecting typical Q2 seasonality and negligible FX impact. Revenue growth in EMEA was strong, primarily driven by strong performance in Benelux, Ireland and parts of Western continental Europe, including Germany, France, Spain and Italy, fueled by relatively strong performance in automotive and consumer packaged goods. Asia and Latin America continued to show impressive growth as well with Japan, Argentina, Australia, Brazil and China being notably strong in Q2.

Now turning to expenses, traffic acquisition costs were $1.5 billion or 28.4% of total advertising revenue, down from 29.2% in Q1. AdSense TAC was $1.3 billion, while TAC related to distribution partners and others who direct traffic to our websites totaled $154 million in the quarter. As we grow our AdSense partner network and embark on new initiatives, we may see additional pressure on TAC rates going forward.

Other costs of revenue, which include $9 million in stock-based compensation, increased $49 million over Q1 to $674 million. The largest driver of the increase was the increase in costs related to our data centers, including depreciation, equipment and operations. We continue to anticipate that other costs of sales could increase going forward. Other than cost of revenue, operating expenses totaled $1.64 billion, including approximately $264 million in stock-based compensation. Expenses related to payroll and facilities increased $1 million over Q1 to $810 million.

At the end of the quarter we had a full-time employee base of 19,604. We added 448 net new employees in Q2 with roughly half the new non-DoubleClick hires coming on board in engineering, followed by sales and marketing. We have implemented and continue to follow a disciplined hiring process in all areas of our organization. But, as we've indicated in the past, we will continue to invest in our core business both in the US and internationally. Remember also that we usually see an uptick in starts over the summer, coinciding with the end of academic year.

Turning to non-GAAP operating profit, which excludes stock-based compensation, increased to $1.9 billion in Q2 with non-GAAP operating margins of 34.5%. Note that interest income and other in Q2 was $58 million, down $109 million from Q1. To be clear, this was not a write-down, now was this due to any losses. Instead, it was primarily due to lower yields on our cash balance, lower average cash balances as a result of cash used in the first quarter to acquire DoubleClick, lower net realized gains on the sale of -- net realized gains on the sale of our marketable securities and an increase in expenses as a result of more activity under our foreign exchange hedging programs.

Finally, turning to cash, operating cash flow remained strong at $1.77 billion with CapEx for the quarter of $698 million. As in previous quarters, the majority of our CapEx was related to IT infrastructure investments including data center construction, production of servers and networking equipment. We expect to continue to make significant investments in CapEx in future quarters.

Free cash flow, a non-GAAP measure which we define as cash flow from operations less CapEx, remained strong at $1.07 billion, up 63% year over year.

In summary, we believe our core business continues to demonstrate strength while we make key investments to pursue long-term growth opportunities.

At this point I want to take a moment to thank Eric, Larry, Sergey and the rest of the management team for having had the privilege of working with all of them, and this is an opportunity that I will never forget. So let me turn it over to Hal.

HAL VARIAN, CHIEF ECONOMIST, GOOGLE: Eric asked me to comment on the state of the economic environment and how that is impacting Google. When we look across sectors of the United States, we see that on a year-on-year basis, the query growth has been positive in every sector we track, even including those sectors that are generally economically sensitive such as automotive, real estate and travel. We also see that year-on-year revenue growth is positive in every major sector, except for real estate, and even that one is only down by a small amount.

When we look at the subsectors we see some interesting patterns. The weaker components are just the ones you would expect to see based on the macroeconomic climate -- auto financing, home financing and real estate agencies. These are the sorts of queries you would expect to see when auto or real estate transactions have already taken place. And as we all know, fewer transactions are taking place in those sectors. It's interesting to note that year-over-year automotive ad spend is up, even though the growth in auto financing is down. I interpret this as saying that auto advertisers are willing to spend on clicks, but the weakness is on the consumer side. However, I should emphasize, this behavior is not universal. Spending seems to be holding up pretty well in other consumer durable categories, such as home appliances and home furnishing.

When we turn to Europe, we see a similar pattern. In the UK we had across-the-board year-to-year growth in both revenue and queries with the sole exception being real estate. Continental Europe grew in both queries and revenue in every major vertical.

To summarize, when we look across verticals we see that consumers are being cautious in their online spending patterns, just as they are in their off-line spending. Despite the weakness in the economy, advertising revenue seems to be holding up remarkably well in most sectors. I think this illustrates the point that we've made several times. During periods of slow economic growth, the last thing an advertiser wants to cut is its spending on search-based advertising.

So with that, let me pass the mic to Sergey, who is going to talk about what we've been doing in products.

SERGEY BRIN, CO-FOUNDER & PRESIDENT, TECHNOLOGY, GOOGLE: Hello, everyone. It's really exciting for me to update you. Over the past quarter, we've had a lot of substantial improvements, new launches. Let me just start with search.

We've substantially increased the size of our index. And in particular, actually, the index of documents that we refresh every few minutes has also grown tremendously. So now our users get much fresher and faster results and across a greater range of sources.

We've, just all told, to give you a sense for this, launched over 100 search quality improvements this quarter, so roughly one a day. And some of the highlights -- again, we have increased coverage in universal search, which means you get your Web pages mixed in with video and images, news, books, all those things we're able to show more and more. And that improves our search results, and it pays us a double dividend for all of the work we've been doing (inaudible) such as Book Search.

We also just added blog results at the bottom of the page in the past quarter, and our blending of Maps results we've put into 130 more countries than we had in the past.

We've also been running more OneBox's. For example, those of you in Europe might have enjoyed our Euro 2008 OneBox in June, during the soccer tournament. Let me just take a step away from just the basic search. Many of you, I know, use iGoogle, and in fact we know that because we've had such tremendous growth, and especially internationally. More than 60% of iGoogle users are now outside of the US. We had some very important developments, in particular with themes this quarter. You might have seen our iGoogle artist campaign where 68 artists across 22 countries created new themes for the products and this encouraged hundreds of thousands of people to sign up for iGoogle. Of course, the existing users, many of them changed their themes to these artists' themes.

I have personally set my I Google page now to go do a rotation across the top theme, so that's really fun. Every day, I get a new feel aesthetically pretty exciting and varied.

If you are listening to me right now, you probably speak English pretty well, though, of course, if you're reading a transcript that has been translated using Google Translate, then you might not. It's very important to be able to have access to information in languages that you don't speak, especially if you're a non-English speaker. The amount of information that's out there that can be useful to you that's not necessarily in your native language is huge. To this end, we have been, of course, working on Google Translate. It now covers over 20 languages. We have added 10 just in this past quarter alone, and now we let you translate from any one of those languages to any other of those languages.

We have been able to improve the performance and have tremendous growth in usage as well. We've also been working on our cross-language search. So we don't necessarily just search literally in the language that you search. We are able to produce translated results in other languages now more automatically. And you can expect us to continue to expand that work.

In ads, I should highlight a notable development. Our AdSense network now allows third parties to host and serve ads, and this has been important. It's important to many advertisers. Just as one example, Lenovo is now advertising with us because we can support this kind of third-party ad serving. We also, now that advertisers find out more about where they should be advertising because we've launched the Google Ad Planner. And that lets you see what kind of sites the particular audience that's interested in whatever the advertiser is advertising, which sites do they visit, what are the breakdowns of demographics. It lets you do very complicated statistical analyses, and I encourage you all to try it out. Even if you're not an advertiser, it's pretty fun to be able to play with that data.

Let me just jump a little bit onto YouTube. Probably most of you have had a chance to try to watch some YouTube videos, and in fact our data suggests that more and more of you are. We now have 13 hours of video uploaded every single minute. So, as you can imagine, it would take quite a many life times to watch all YouTube videos. It also gives you the opportunity, of course, to watch video in very specific topics that may be of interest to you.

We've also, on YouTube, been experimenting with a variety of advertising formats and we've had some great successes. Lion's Gate marked the opening of the film The Forbidden Kingdom, for example, and it had over 4 million video views on YouTube just from that promotion. So that was very exciting for us and for Lion's Gate.

I should mention that Mobile Search has been growing quite a bit, and of course you may have heard about our partnership that we've launched this past quarter with NTT DoCoMo in Japan. Japan is a very strong market for Mobile Search, and it's because of the devices, because of the culture, it's just a really tremendous, tremendous environment. People do many, many mobile searches. We have a robust advertising market there for Mobile Search.

And, we are certainly optimistic that many of these advances, which may initiate in Japan, will carry over in the rest of the world as the devices and culture catch up.

I want to also mention that our Mobile Search experience, which we have now rolled out to more countries and we've made substantially faster, is also causing a lot of growth in that segment [for us].

One of the things that I'm most excited to tell you about today is our progress with Apps. And I should mention, first of all, that our enterprise business with respect to Apps has been growing very rapidly. There are now more than 0.5 million businesses that are using Google Apps for their day-to-day productivity, and that's just a tremendous number. But just to give you color of what some of these businesses include, in this past quarter, Valeo, one of the world's leading automotive suppliers, now has 32,000 users using Google Apps including, of course, Gmail, Calendar, Docs, Sites and so forth. The government of Washington D.C. has 38,000 users on Google Apps. General Electric has adopted the securities side of the Apps products, which was formerly Postini, and that's running on over 300,000 users.

And just to call out a few other highlights, the Telegraph Media Group and Sanmina both also adopted Google Apps. So it has been a very exciting quarter for that. Starting from these 500,000 businesses, including some of these incredibly successful businesses, we really expect this to be an important area for growth and development.

I also just want to tell you, we don't view Google Apps and what not -- we don't want to create a closed environment or a walled garden. We really want to encourage more and more cloud computing, and want to see more and more companies out there successful in deploying cloud solutions. One of the things that we've launched in this past quarter to help out with that is the Google App engine, which basically means that developers can easily write an application and deploy it on our scaled infrastructure rather than having to try to put together all their own computers, data centers, networking, all that stuff. We handle all that for the developers. And we've had a rapidly growing base.

Just a few fun examples -- we had a nine-year-old boy who contacted us with a bunch of questions, and then he has been able to develop his app on the Google App engine. And he said that he has been able to do it now because previously he was spending all of his allowance on hosting, and he could no longer afford that.

Other more commercial ventures include [Pick Source], a chat application that switched to Google Apps engine after they launched it, and it was subsequently purchased by the social network [Hi5]. As well as, for those of you who are into poking, BuddyPoke, a very popular open social app which is running on orkut and MySpace, has also been developed on the Google App engine.

We expect that we're going to have a lot of uptake of our various developer products and APIs, including the Google App engine. And ultimately, we think that the cloud is just a really great place to deploy apps because of the simplicity for end users to access them, the ease of updating and maintaining them. It's really a great environment. We obviously live with it every day, and we believe it really helps people be more effective and productive in their day-to-day lives.

Anyway, all told, great quarter, lots and lots of progress. And it's been a pleasure to talk to you about it.

ERIC SCHMIDT: Thank you very much, Sergey. Why don't we go straight to everybody's questions, so are we ready? Let's hear the first question.

OPERATOR: (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS) Imran Khan, JP Morgan.

IMRAN KHAN, ANALYST, JP MORGAN: I know, if I look at that UK growth rate, it seems like on a year-over-year basis growth rate decelerated 10 points. I was trying to understand, is it because of law of large numbers, are you seeing any specific weakness that's dragging the growth down there?

And the second question is related to the Mobile Search. I know, Sergey, you talked about the Mobile Search opportunity. Do you think that the mobile search will expand the search volume, and as well as -- what kind of impact, also, do you expect from on the revenue per queries with that? And also, if you have seen any impact from Apple iPhone yet?

ERIC SCHMIDT: Jonathan, do you want to go ahead and answer the UK question?

JONATHAN ROSENBERG, SVP, PRODUCT MANAGEMENT, GOOGLE: I think basically we are just seeing the typical Q2 seasonality. If you look back at Q1, that, of course, was very big. I think we talked in the call in Q1 about some of the verticals like travel. I think the other point would be that we have very, very high market share in the UK. So, as our market share grows, I think in past quarters when you looked at seasonality, the gains in market share may have been masking some of the seasonality. And now what we're seeing is just the typical appropriate Q2 seasonality. (multiple speakers) negligible.

ERIC SCHMIDT: Sergey?

SERGEY BRIN: Yes, on Mobile I certainly expect to see an uptick in Search volume due to Mobile because you are obviously not always at your desktop, but you pretty much always want to know something. And with respect to the revenues per query, I think that will vary from market to market. I think it will also vary as we develop more specialized monetization programs for mobile phones.

You know, in some respects you can't fit as much advertising, obviously, on a really small screen. On the other hand, the queries are very localized. You might be standing right next to that pizza place that wants to entice you to become a customer or something like that. So I think there's an opportunity for much more fine-grained targeting. And both of those things are going to balance out.

With respect to the iPhone, I don't have data off the top of my head with respect to the latest iPhone 3G launch. But certainly, the iPhone, much as I mentioned also the maturity of the Japan market, these better devices, devices with great browsers like the iPhone that make it easy for people to search and then view the results -- they definitely have much higher usage per device than other kinds of devices. And just the kind of -- on the rough order of magnitude, imagine that by 30 times as many searches per user might be done by an iPhone user as compared to a conventional cell phone.

So I think, as you see more iPhones out there, as you see more other phones that also start to have capable browsers and input methods, I think you're going to see tremendous growth there.

OPERATOR: Brian Pitz, Banc of America Securities.

BRIAN PITZ, ANALYST, BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES: We have a couple of questions around ad coverage. Clearly, you have intentionally reduced coverage on Google.com over the last couple of quarters to improve ad quality. Would you give us a sense for how far you are in this process? And on a related note, you expanded [auto match] to more advertisers this quarter. Do you see this as a significant driver of coverage going forward? And, any other comments on coverage would be great. Thanks.

ERIC SCHMIDT: Jonathan?

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: Sure. So basically coverage -- coverage, I think, from a quarter-to-quarter basis has been going down. It's pretty much at an all-time low relative to the last few quarters. That's basically our continued focus on quality. I don't really see that changing significantly. I think, in the limit, Larry often says that we'd be best off if we just showed one ad, the perfect ad. So I really don't think that coverage is going to change much.

The second question was?

BRIAN PITZ: Just pertaining to auto match, traction there. Do you see this potentially as a driver of coverage?

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: Yes, sure. We only just started expanding Automatch. It was in beta, so we only expanded it, I think, to a slightly bigger group of advertisers this quarter. Certainly, Automatch can help increase coverage because it helps find more keywords that a query will trigger on. But we're going to apply the same quality efforts to the output of Automatch. So overall, I think that the net result in terms of total coverage would not be significantly greater. I do think the impact on revenue would be positive.

BRIAN PITZ: Any sense on what percentage of advertisers aren't really optimizing their budgets that Automatch could help with?

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: Wow, (multiple speakers) a large number.

ERIC SCHMIDT: I think it's really too early to give you -- the answer is, it should apply to everybody. Sergey, do you want to add a little bit about coverage?

SERGEY BRIN: Yes. I just wanted to talk a little bit about that. There is some evidence that I think we've been probably a little bit more aggressive in decreasing coverage than we ought to have been. Historically, we've had this 50-50 rough notion that when we have an improvement in advertising targeting, we try to split the benefit, if you will. We try to reduce our coverage, at the same time as improving the monetization. But clearly, that's not the ideal strategy indefinitely, because we don't want to end up with no ads.

In fact, from a quality point of view, we now find our ads are a significant addition quality-wise to our page. They are just a very important source of information. So we've been, actually, re-examining some of that and there was some evidence internally that perhaps we were a little overly aggressive in decreasing coverage in this past quarter.

OPERATOR: James Mitchell, Goldman Sachs.

JAMES MITCHELL, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Hal, I think you mentioned that queries were up year-on-year in every major sector, but erratic within subsectors, for example, in auto finance as opposed to autos. If queries are down in a particular subsector, do advertisers generally respond by bidding up the keywords that are available so they can fully spend their budgets? Or, is that not the case that budgets go unspent?

HAL VARIAN: Sometimes we see that happening, where advertisers are competing more and more aggressively for a smaller set of consumers. So we typically do see a price response to this slackening in the sector, and we've seen that even in automotive, for example, in the spring when there were a lot of deals offered to get cars off the lot and the automakers were advertising quite aggressively in all media to try to convince consumers to buy. So this is an effect that we sometimes encounter.

OPERATOR: Justin Post, Merrill Lynch.

JUSTIN POST, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: Eric, on the press release, you chose to highlight that you are seeing some economic weakness. I don't think the Company was talking much about that last quarter. Are you seeing things deteriorate a little bit further than where we were a quarter ago? Can you give some color on that?

And then, on the YouTube acquisition, just wondering where you are at with some press comments out recently, where you're at on that versus your deal model at this point.

ERIC SCHMIDT: I'm going to have Hal actually talk a little bit about just sort of the nature of the environment because I think all of us have anecdotal evidence, but in fact Google has continued to do well. There is obviously evidence of a slowdown in the US and Europe; you read it in the paper every day. We continue to believe that we are very, very well-positioned in such a slowdown, and especially if it gets worse.

And the reason is that people -- there's a flight to quality and, in particular, a flight to measurability. So our economics are more driven by, for example, if people stop searching for something we might not be able to do ads against it. Maybe Hal can articulate that, a little bit better than I can.

On the YouTube side, we are enormously happy with YouTube. YouTube is a cultural and end user success that is far, far greater than we ever expected. On the revenue side, we are working on revenue scenarios and new revenue products. And I personally do not believe that the perfect ad product for YouTube has been invented yet. We've just brought out some little in-video ads, looks very good. Hal, maybe you want to talk about economics, and maybe Omid, you can talk a little bit about YouTube sales.

HAL VARIAN: Sure. On the consumer side, I already mentioned that some durables like consumer appliances and furnishings are holding up pretty well. In fact, if you look at apparel and shopping, people are still spending money online in a pretty strong way. I think part of what's happening is that, as times get a little uncertain, price-sensitive consumers are going to shop more carefully and try to make every dollar count, and that means they're going to be doing research online and they are going to be doing shopping online. So I think we have a little bit of the Wal-Mart effect going on that, as times get tough, people are going to watch their dollars. And in many cases that means doing more shopping online.

OMID KORDESTANI, SVP, GLOBAL SALES & OPERATIONS, GOOGLE: I wanted to add to Eric's comments about YouTube. I think we are spending a lot of time internally on understanding how to streamline and integrate DoubleClick, improve the sales process as well as just pure customer activity. We're having great success. Again, as usual, I'd like to highlight some of the advertising names from Lenovo, Footlocker, Lion's Gate, Oreo, Kraft Foods, IKEA, Lipton Tea -- these are the kinds of advertisers that we really did not have access or the proper types of advertising opportunities for before as much as we do now. The Footlocker example is a particularly good one as the media they use on Google was extremely broad, from YouTube search, the content network, and within the content network also access to MySpace, gadget ads, print ads and audio ads. So you can just see the way that our sales force and our product teams are working with a broader set of advertisers, broader set of offerings and a very much integrated platform approach.

And search has taken a long time for us to develop, and it still takes a lot of time for us and a lot of hard work. And we are putting a lot of energy on getting the right approach on YouTube and display advertising.

OPERATOR: Christa Quarles, Thomas Weisel Partners.

CHRISTA QUARLES, ANALYST, THOMAS WEISEL PARTNERS: Just a couple questions on DoubleClick. First, I was wondering if you could outline within licensing how much it contributed in the quarter. Second, if you could indicate if you're seeing any macroeconomic impact there. Obviously, you've made some comments about search specifically. But I was wondering if you could highlight it for DoubleClick. And then, third, just maybe some comments about how you are changing the buying process around display, I guess where you see the innovations coming in display over the next year or two.

ERIC SCHMIDT: We are not going to break out DoubleClick, and our comments are not -- basically, it's early. And so far, we are very pleased with it. It looks like it was a very, very sharp decision on our part to go ahead and get the integration. The team looks very strong. The strategy, once the acquisition was approved and so forth and so on was to develop a broad product line that went from the large customer, large advertiser, which was the traditional DoubleClick customer, all the way down to the very small advertiser through AdWords and essentially integrate all the offering. This is public information; we've said this for the previous year during the regulatory strategy, and indeed, that's happening now. So the theory here is that an advertiser will be able to advertise across all of the different size publishers with one mechanism.

And that's the goal. We think we can achieve that, and it will be fairly soon, some number of months, not years.

CHRISTA QUARLES: And the macro?

ERIC SCHMIDT: No particular change in the macro environment. DoubleClick is doing well. Omid, do you want to emphasize any of this?

OMID KORDESTANI: I agree with Eric. I think we have anecdotal experiences, customers, some customers that act erratically, you know, I think really affected maybe by the macro environments and stop the spending. But then we see that pick up again the following month. So it's very hard to judge this. I don't think we have any trends that we can comment on.

HAL VARIAN: I guess the one thing, some of the innovation has already started. We have an internal roadmap in terms of the innovations for the next couple of years, which I obviously can't go through here. But just this quarter we launched the AdPlanner, which basically lets advertisers designate target audiences and see exactly which sites they want to attract for an audience. We've got the Google AdManager in test, which is basically a free tool that helps publishers sell, schedule, deliver and measure their inventory. Sergey, I think, mentioned in his script the third-party serving, and we've also got some new features to let advertisers select target sites and keywords.

So all of that, I think, is really addressing the big problem in display, which is the highly fragmented market. And that's the focus of most of the innovations that you'll see coming out in the next year or so.

OPERATOR: Doug Anmuth, Lehman Brothers.

DOUG ANMUTH, ANALYST, LEHMAN BROTHERS: Question for George, we're not letting you off the hook quite yet. On the interest income, you detailed, I think, four pieces, actually, that contributed to the decrease in the interest income quarter-to-quarter. Could you provide a little bit more color there? In particular, how should we think about that going forward? Is this a one-quarter effect, or is it something that we're likely to see continue over the next couple of quarters?

GEORGE REYES: So I think what we're trying to portray here is that, in fact, we have a very healthy business and we have been investing in -- we've been investing in the business and the lower yields on our cash balances is what has really brought down what you've seen thus far, all the way through the average cash balances, as a result that cash is used first. And then DoubleClick is also a consumer of that as well.

DOUG ANMUTH: And in terms of the marketable securities and the FX hedging, are you implying that those two are less significant factors for the impact this quarter?

GEORGE REYES: No. We're actually in the process of building our internal portfolio here, so it's hard for me to say more than that.

OPERATOR: Ben Schachter, UBS.

BEN SCHACHTER, ANALYST, UBS: The headcount growth was really among its lowest levels in a long time. Is that 500 new net employees a number you are comfortable with on a quarterly basis? And where are you still looking to add, and what areas are you comfortable with headcount?

ERIC SCHMIDT: In the first place, we won't suggest a number going forward. The Company is now a reasonably large company by comparison to its peers, and we don't need massive new people in large communities that were not there before. We've largely built out a good management structure globally. So it's really dependent upon the kind of quality of people we can hire.

You'll remember a few quarters ago we actually allowed the hiring engine to get ahead of things, and we said that we would focus on that a little bit more carefully, and we have indeed done so. So I think what you'll see going forward is prudent management of headcount growth. The Company is going to continue to grow. This number may or may not be a specific number going forward, but the important point is we are paying a lot of attention to headcount. We want to make sure that we maintain the quality.

And of course also as a larger company we need to make sure that we can use the resource effectively. We never want to misuse somebody's talents as an employee.

BEN SCHACHTER: If I could just follow up on a question on mobile, Sergey, you had discussed the evolution of the marketplace. I was wondering, at some point, can we expect to see a completely separate marketplace for mobile ads that comes with its own auction (inaudible) et cetera? Or will it continue to be an extension of the current model?

SERGEY BRIN: Yes, so currently, we do allow advertisers to place separate ads for mobile. In fact, I see them converging more in the future because, once you start to get these phones that have fully capable browsers and things like that, then there's not that much reason for disparity. Now, at the same time, as I mentioned, phones in some sense will have new capabilities that the desktop doesn't, such as location, things like that. So me may add some capability beyond the basic desktop advertising capability that we have.

But I think it will be a more fluid experience for advertisers in terms of, you know, you can select please run on mobile, too, or don't, rather than trying to have completely separate worlds.

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: Just adding to Sergey's comments, I agree with him. I'd just like to give you an example of one of the dynamics that will be different on the mobile phones. We've been talking for awhile about the fact that when you are on a mobile phone, you are much more likely to be interested in consummating a transaction if you run a search. One of the winners of the 1700 applications submitted for the Android Developer Challenge was a product that was developed called Android Scan. And basically, what it allows a user to do is take a picture of a product with a bar-code. And then they can research the product on their mobile browser. They can do price comparisons. They can figure out how far a store that can actually sell that browser might be, or they could actually figure out who to buy it from online.

Imagine the value of an ad in that kind of a scenario. So the bidding mechanisms for some of the local ads will differ in terms of the efforts that we have to scale to get them on to Mobile. But in many ways, they could be much, much more valuable.

OPERATOR: Mark Mahaney, Citi.

MARK MAHANEY, ANALYST, CITI: On the G&A line, it seemed a little bit ahead of expectations. Was there any one-time integration-related costs in that G&A line?

And then back to YouTube, Eric, you made a comment about not having yet found maybe the ideal ad solution. Could you talk about what the technical challenge is there? Or, is it finding the right format, or is it figuring out a way to best target ads against -- trying to figure out what the real content of a video is?

ERIC SCHMIDT: On the YouTube side, we basically are innovators in advertising and we've tried post-roll, pre-roll, in-the-chrome kind of ads. We're having a great deal of success now with these in-video ads, where the ads are essentially in the bottom and embedded inside of the video. That looks like a pretty good winner right there.

We've also had some significant success with gadget ads and gadget video ads are likely to be particularly effective because they allow you to tell a story.

If you look, the advertisers that we are working with and the content that we're working with are also using the format differently. There, as a typical example, is that the Lion's Gate deal, which was announced yesterday, Lion's Gate works with people who upload the segments of the Lion's Gate movies that they like and they capture them using our [claim ware] content product, and then they can run ads against them. So again, here's a community that's busy making copies that are not authorized of content, and Lion's Gate has the good judgment to say, rather than go and sue those customers, instead, let's go capture that, show an ad against them and get them even more excited about our content and our other content.

So we think those kinds of models are sustainable and scalable on the Internet and are likely to be very, very significant sources of revenue. I think it's axiomatic that a new form, and I view YouTube as a new form of video entertainment, will not ultimately use the old forms to monetize. There will be new monetization forms that will go for the new entertainment form, and that's what we're seeking.

That is the Holy Grail. When we find it or the combination of it, it's likely to be very, very large because of the scale and scope of YouTube.

On the G&A line, I want to make sure we answer that question.

GEORGE REYES: So the main increase was due to legal and professional and outsourcing services, as well as fees. So that's your answer. So, as you know, we also don't give guidance.

MARK MAHANEY: One-time-ish, or generally sustainable?

GEORGE REYES: Generally sustainable? No. I mean -- no.

ERIC SCHMIDT: Unfortunately, the legal stuff is [bursty] because we have suits, it's welcome to the information economy.

OPERATOR: Jeetil Patel, Deutsche Bank.

JEETIL PATEL, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: First of all, you talked earlier about basically your ad coverage may have come down a little too much, and I guess Larry's idea is to be a little bit more targeting oriented, so serving the right ad. Can you talk about, in terms of that evolution or phase of the business, how far along are you in trying to better optimize the ads against the intent of the consumer across the entire network and platform today?

And then second, on the AdSense for the content side of the business, how difficult or easy would it be to convert it into a display ad network? Is this something that you would look to do? And, how does that display ad around AdSense for content -- do those two things marry up nicely or not?

SERGEY BRIN: Great questions. Let me take them in reverse order. With respect to display in AdSense for content, we actually allow for display in AdSense for content today. That's something -- it's a publisher's setting that publishers need to choose. And in those cases where they are chosen, then we will run display ads, to the extent that their yield is higher than the text ads that we can run in that space. So that's something that we are doing today and we are looking to grow and we're certainly excited about.

In general, let me just take a step back. Looking at the evolution of our overall search text ads system, from its initial starts, when we could barely feed the ad team pizza with the money that we were able to generate off the first iteration of their ads, to several iterations down the road over a number of years and through the maturation and the attraction of the advertiser base and them being able to set up really good campaigns for them, it's a multi-year process to get to where we are now. And we obviously are continuing to improve, to attract new advertisers, to improve the targeting and so forth.

So, now that we have the advertiser base, we don't necessarily need to wait quite as long to attract the advertiser base, to begin with. But for advertisers to create new types of ads for new medias, what not, these things do take time for us to go through all the experimentation of what formats and systems might work best also takes time. And just me looking back, going from '98, '99, 2000, where we were then with search ads, I feel some of these areas, YouTube ads, content ads, display and what not, are actually progressing at a faster pace.

JEETIL PATEL: You made a point earlier -- just the last question -- but that you may have gone too far on the ad coverage side, and the advertisements' ad relevance. Are you seeing basically that it's affecting the frequency of usage or search frequency because you may have dialed down ad coverage a little too much? Is that where the impact you are seeing? And if you dial it back up a bit, you may see greater usage from a consumer standpoint across in terms of frequency of searching across the entire network?

SERGEY BRIN: Yes, great question. I think that, first of all, we certainly run plenty of experiments. We're all the time running experiments. We run some people without any ads at all. And we know that our ads add value, so we know that we're happy about having them.

Now, I don't know it's the case that we're necessarily sort of decreased them past below the optimal point. But I know that we will do that in the near future if we continue with the system that we have had in place. That's what we've really had to have second thoughts about. What -- it makes more sense to me just to ask some [folks] for the optimal coverage, if you will. And that's what we're trying to figure out exactly how to do now.

OPERATOR: David Joseph, Morgan Stanley.

DAVID JOSEPH, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Just a quick question on universal search -- it seems like you have been ramping it up or you ramped it up more during the quarter. I'm just wondering what percentage of total search results universal search is today. And also, what maybe different unit user behavior is seen with universal search versus traditional text search.

And also, George, I guess one of the last questions for you is that, it looks like the incremental margin for Google improved pretty nicely sequentially and year-over-year. We do know that you had an easier comparison with the year-ago period, but I'm wondering if you also have been implementing or some of the programs that you have been implementing for increased financial discipline are actually starting to work now.

GEORGE REYES: Yes, we have actually made a very concerted effort to drive more accountability into the business, so that's a theme that will carry forward.

ERIC SCHMIDT: Sergey, do you want to answer the universal question?

SERGEY BRIN: Yes, universal search. So we've got -- a bit under a third of all queries now have some kind of universal search components in them. And this is just, by comparison, in the first quarter it was more like a tenth. So it's big, big improvements. And yes, our feeling is definitely that this -- and experiments, by the way, also justify this -- but this is significant improved information for our end users.

And it's amazing to me just if I look at the video, for example, video universal, which alone is at about 10%, now, of queries -- people have videos for, often, very -- for things that you wouldn't expect. I mentioned before, maybe it was on one of these calls. But I was looking to buy a RAID, like an array of disks, to store stuff on. It's not the kind of query you would expect might have good videos about it. But in fact, the particular RAID I was interested in, somebody had put together a video. This is how you take it out of the box, this is how you swap the drive on it, all those things. And in fact, that compelled me to buy that particular RAID.

So I think that you'll find increasing universal coverage in [purposes] that you wouldn't expect, and [that source] particularly would be [valuable], because the user would not have thought to click on the separate video tab in that query. We have to bring that information to the user. That's what we're doing.

DAVID JOSEPH: So are you seeing click-through rates a little bit less on universal search? And, does this actually present a little bit of a different model for search, where you're going to be able to monetize video a little bit differently, or images, for that matter?

SERGEY BRIN: Where it's less than universal search?

DAVID JOSEPH: (multiple speakers) that's a golden triangle, where people are more focused --

ERIC SCHMIDT: No, I think -- again, it's -- the system in aggregate is actually where you are seeing more (multiple speakers).

SERGEY BRIN: Oh, I see. You are saying -- how would it affect. We monitor these things pretty closely point when we launch them, and it's not that we're unwilling to launch things that might adversely affect the ad click-through rates or what not. But in sum total, the launches that we've done, I don't think that's negative. I think it's positive.

OPERATOR: Jeffrey Lindsay, Sanford Bernstein.

JEFFREY LINDSAY, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: Could you give us more detail about your wireless strategy and indicate just how you intend to participate in wireless in the US over the next four to five years? And then, could you give us any updates on the android alliance? When are android devices expected? And then, could you give us an indication of -- do you have to share revenues with Apple and/or AT&T to get Google onto the iPhone?

ERIC SCHMIDT: Sergey, do you want to start on wireless, overall wireless strategy, and then some of the -- (multiple speakers)?

SERGEY BRIN: Yes, overall wireless is very simple. We want our products and the Internet and Web as a whole available on as many devices in as many different markets as possible, so very easy. And we have a twofold approach for that. First, we write our apps and try to make them available on many different platforms, like the iPhone that you mentioned, or we put them on Symbian devices, on BlackBerry's, on Windows mobile devices, all those. We have Google Apps [for] -- .

And we've also, because we've had some challenge sometimes getting things out, like necessarily easily being able to get access to location data to make Maps work really well or things like that, we've developed this android platform. And we've had the same calling from carriers, from handset makers and other application makers that they just want to be able to get these things out more easily. And so we are very excited about android. We are still expecting phones before the end of the year to ship

ERIC SCHMIDT: And, Jonathan, do you want to talk a little bit about some of the partnerships?

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: I guess the main data point in terms of android, there are 34 companies in the open handset alliance. So we are doing pretty well there, and I already alluded to the contest that we ran and the results there with that example of the android scan barcode. There are others that we are very excited about. I think there's a Weather Channel application that will alert people and wake them up when there's a severe weather alert that they need to be aware of. There are some fantastic ones, one called [G-Walk] that helps people take city tours dynamically, and it adjusts to your location and shows points of interest. So there's already very, very significant efforts going on in the developer community in anticipation of the launches later this year.

ERIC SCHMIDT: So let's finish up. Thank you very much, Jonathan and everybody else. I want to thank everybody for spending so much time with us. We look forward to talking to you next quarter, and please have a good summer. Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: And that concludes today's conference. We thank you for your participation. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
goog : Google Inc.
   IN
i8395464 : Internet Search Engines | iint : Internet/Online Services
   NS
c11 : Plans/Strategy | c15 : Performance | ntra : Transcript | c151 : Earnings | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | uk : United Kingdom | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe
   PUB
Voxant, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020080724e47h001gz
  


 HD
 Q1  2008 Google Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
10,372 words
   PD
17 April 2008
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.     

   LP
OPERATOR: Good day, and welcome everyone into the Google Inc. conference call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time I would like to turn the call over to Ms. Christa Bethinger, Director of Investor Relations. Please go ahead, ma'am.

CHRISTA BETHINGER, DIRECTOR IR, GOOGLE INC.: Good afternoon everyone and welcome to today's first quarter 2008 earnings conference call. With us are Eric Schmidt, Chief Executive Officer; George Reyes, Chief Financial Officer; Larry Page, Founder and President of Products; Sergey Brin, Founder and President of Technology; Jonathan Rosenberg, Senior Vice President of Product Management; and Omid Kordestani, Senior Vice President of Global Sales and Operations.

   TD
Eric, George, Larry and Sergey will provide their thoughts on the quarter and then Jonathan and Omid will join us for Q&A. Please note that this call is being webcast from our Investor Relations website. Our press release issued a few minutes ago is also posted on the website, along with slides that accompany today's prepared remarks. A replay of this call will also be available on our Investor Relations website in a few hours.

Now let me quickly cover the Safe Harbor. Some of the statements we make today may be considered forward-looking, including statements regarding our investments, seasonality, traffic acquisition costs, increase in the cost of sales, international growth, operating margins, growth in headcount, and our expected level of capital expenditures.

These statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially. Please note that these forward-looking statements reflect our opinions only as of the date of this presentation, and we undertake no obligation to revise or publicly release the result of any revision to these forward-looking statements in light of new information or future events.

Please refer to our SEC filings, including our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007, as well as our earnings press release for a more detailed description of the risk factors that may affect our results. Copies can be obtained from the SEC or by visiting the Investor Relations section of our website.

Also, please note that certain financial measures we use on this call, such as EPS, net income, operating margin and operating income, are expressed on a non-GAAP basis and have been adjusted to exclude charges relating to stock-based compensation. We have also adjusted our net cash provided by operating activities to remove capital expenditures, which we refer to as free cash flow. Our GAAP results and GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliation can be found in our earnings press release.

With that, it is my pleasure to turn the call over to Eric.

ERIC SCHMIDT, CHAIRMAN, CEO, GOOGLE INC.: We are obviously very pleased with another strong quarter for Google. And it is clear to us that we are well-positioned for 2008 and beyond, regardless of the business environment that we find ourselves surrounded by. And the search, ads and apps strategy that we articulated last year is beginning to show transformative effects, literally things that people could not do before the products and services that we have offered in each of the categories.

The business model continues to work very well, and we have had good disciplined management of our operating expenses. So thank you very much to the management team. It is also interesting to note that paid click growth is much higher than has been speculated by third parties.

In search we continue to invest in quality, particularly internationally. And quality improvements lead to increased traffic and share. And quality here means better algorithms, more content, deeper, if you will, into the Web, a larger index, faster response, all that sort of thing. But it also implies things like Maps and Earth and geospatial information that is all integrated in a way that people can find things and see things that they could never do before.

In ads we continue to increase value for advertisers and publishers, again, broader and deeper solutions, better tools for advertisers, many, many quality improvements in advertising, which has the interesting effect which means that we're showing fewer but much better adds in each cycle. That is a key part of the Google success story.

We're putting more and more flexibility and control in the hands of advertisers, and so they can decide exactly where the ads should go, and measure it in a way using analytics that they could not do before. And it is also important to note that DoubleClick has been added now to the portfolio. And DoubleClick is hugely strategic for us. It allows us to offer a much more comprehensive solution for advertisers and publishers. This has been asked for a long time and now we are able to do it.

So in the apps case we are working to buildout a whole new online Web experience. And we're beginning to have all of the pieces now in place. For example, the recently announced Salesforce.com partnership allows us to integrate a foreign enterprise customer, both the Salesforce.com products as well as all of the Google application services, and sold through their direct sales operation.

By doing these partnerships and by investing heavily in new applications models, we think people will spend more and more time online, and they will be able to do things like sharing documents, sharing calendars, dealing with photos and all those kinds of things in a way that have not been possible before.

This has all been possible because of the many, many talented Googlers at the executive leadership that we have seen in the last quarter. I want to thank everybody for that. The Google model really does rely on technology and innovation. And the repeatable and scalable business that we have built is really poised for global growth.

With that, George, do you want to take us through the numbers?

GEORGE REYES, CFO, GOOGLE INC.: Good afternoon everyone. Before we begin, please note that our consolidated results as reported today include the results of DoubleClick from March 11, the date of the acquisition, through the end of the quarter. The overall effect was immaterial of revenue and only slightly dilutive to operating income, net income and earnings per share.

Turning to our results. We had another strong quarter with gross revenue increasing 42% over Q1 of 2007 to $5.2 billion. Google.com performed very well, up 49% year-over-year to $3.4 billion, driven by strong traffic growth and to a lesser extent monetization growth.

AdSense revenue grew 25% over Q1 of 2007, reflecting solid performance across both the content and search networks.

Now let's look at aggregate paid clicks growth. Aggregate paid clicks include clicks related to ads served on Google properties, as well as ads served on our partner sites. Aggregate paid clicks grew approximately 20% over Q1 of 2007, and approximately 4% over Q4. Paid click growth on Google.com in the U.S. remains healthy, and other markets are showing strong growth as well.

Now I will discuss our international performance. International revenue increased to $2.65 billion, now accounting for 51% of total revenue. International markets have tremendous potential for growth. As is typical in the first quarter, the UK was strong with revenues of $803 million and 16% sequential growth, as the travel and finance verticals rebounded as expected from Q4.

Revenue growth in EMEA was primarily driven by strong performance in the UK, Benelux, and the Nordic countries, fueled by strong Pan-European performance in travel. We also saw solid gains in relatively smaller markets, such as Ireland, Spain and Italy. Asia and Latin America continue to show impressive growth as well. With India, Argentina, Australia, Japan being notable performers in the quarter.

Now turning to expenses, traffic acquisition costs were $1.5 billion or 29% of total advertising revenue, down from 30% in Q4. AdSense TAC was $1.3 billion, while TAC related to distribution partners and others who direct to our -- traffic to our websites totaled $143 million in the quarter.

Other costs of revenue, which included $9 million in stock-based compensation, increased $108 million over Q4 to $624 million. The largest driver of the increase was the increase in costs related to our data centers, including depreciation, equipment and operations. We continue to anticipate that other costs of sales could increase going forward.

Other than cost of revenue, operating expenses in Q1 totaled $1.5 billion, including approximately $272 million in stock-based compensation. Expenses related to payroll and facilities increased $53 million over Q4 to $809 million.

At the end of the quarter we had a full-time employee base of 19,156, including more than 1,500 heads from DoubleClick. Since the close of the acquisition we have conducted a review of our ongoing headcount requirements, and approximately 10% of the U.S. DoubleClick workforce was laid off in early April. An additional 15% approximately are expected to leave the Company in the U.S. in the near term -- in the near to intermediate term, because they are in a transitional role as they move through the system. These headcount reductions apply only to the U.S. and do not include employees associated with the future planned divestitures of the Performics SEM business. Today there have been no headcount reductions outside the U.S.

On an organic basis, excluding DoubleClick, we added approximately 800 employees in Q1, with the majority of new hires in engineering followed by sales and marketing. We have implemented and continue to follow a disciplined hiring process in all areas of the organization, but as we have indicated in the past, we will continue to invest in our core business both in the U.S. and internationally.

Non-GAAP operating profit, which excludes stock-based compensation, increased to $1.8 billion in Q1, with non-GAAP operating margins of 35.2%, approximately 30 basis points above Q4.

Turning to tax. Our effective tax rate for Q1 was 24%, down from 25% in Q4 of '07, reflecting the mix of foreign versus domestic earnings.

And finally, turning to cash, operating cash flow remains strong at $1.78 billion, with CapEx for the quarter at $842 million. As in previous quarters, the majority of our CapEx was related to IT infrastructure investments, including data center construction, production of servers and networking equipment. We expect to continue to make significant investments in CapEx in future quarters.

Free cash flow, a non-GAAP measure, which we define as cash flow from operations less CapEx, remains strong at $938 million, up 50% year-over-year.

So in summary we believe our results reflect the strength of our core business across our three primary initiatives, search, ads and apps, with disciplined investments that position us very well to capitalize on the long-term opportunities we see for Google. Now I will turn it over to Sergey.

SERGEY BRIN, CO-FOUNDER & PRESIDENT, TECHNOLOGY, GOOGLE INC.: We are obviously very excited about this past quarter. And in addition to the results you have heard so far, let me highlight some of the incredible search improvements we have made in the past 90 days.

We have launched almost 100 search quality improvements just in this quarter. So we're talking about over more than one per day, including weekends. A lot of these have been international search quality improvements. And you will note, just on the more visible things, our new tailored homepages in Asian markets. Japan, now has a completely new homepage that is tailored to Japan. And our Korean search now has the Universal Search results that you have seen in some other countries.

We have also done a much better job selecting local country results and demoting foreign results in those countries. As a result, we have actually seen our search quality measures uptick significantly in several countries.

Also, I just wanted to highlight some of the user interface improvements we have been doing. You'll notice that you can now search within a site directly from the Google search results. So you'll get a top-level site in your search results, but if you want to further search within that site there is a little box right on the search results page, and you can quickly do a query. If you search for something like NASA or IMDM, you'll see examples of this.

Now I told you in the past year how we have deployed Universal Search, and I know we have mentioned a number of times. But the work wasn't done with the initial launch. In fact, over the past quarter we have been able to -- sorry, over the past year since we launched it, we have been able to double the number of queries where we show these blended results, especially in images, video and books. I'm sure many of you are seeing all the time. This has really improved our ability to answer questions.

We have also deployed now Universal Search in a number of countries. We just added 17 countries that support the Maps Universal Search feature. And I wanted to also just highlight to you on the subject of Maps how we have been developing there. We have deployed Street View in 30 cities now, up 12 from the past quarter. And our new Street View API has let other sites integrate Street View within it.

We are also at the same time as we're spending a lot of effort collecting this data ourselves from apps, we are including user contributed data. In fact, we now allow users to correct information about the local entities and locations on their Maps. In fact you can see them -- you can see recent changes as they happened right now if you go to maps.google.com/recentedits.

I also want to quickly highlight that we have been working on difficult queries, sort of the challenging ones. We had a substantial initiative over this past quarter where we were able to make a very large improvement in what we consider the hardest 20% of our queries. That was a big achievement and it really stands out in my mind.

Finally, let me just tell you a little bit of our progress on mobile, because more and more people are accessing our search and other services through mobile devices. We have now launched a much faster search experience. And it is now available in mobile in 40 languages, 40.

Our mobile search traffic as a result, and just due to market growth, is growing very rapidly. And that is for search, but actually across other properties also. We have now launched a new version of our YouTube mobile site. And mobile users now get access to the entire library of videos. If you remember in the past, it was a subset because there was a little bit of a delay in transcoding, but now all the videos are available. We have had mobile playbacks increase tremendously.

We also just wanted to highlight that we were pleased with our participation in the recent 700 megahertz spectrum auction. I know we did not come back with any spectrum wins in that, but I feel this has been an important experience for us. And we are also very pleased with results that the winners will be adopting these great open access concepts that I think will benefit consumers and developers alike.

Anyhow, those are the highlights in search and Maps and mobile. And now, Larry, over to you.

LARRY PAGE, CO-FOUNDER & PRESIDENT, PRODUCTS, GOOGLE INC.: I'm very excited about the quarter as well. And I'm going to talk to you a little bit about ads and applications. So in ads we did a bunch of things for the last quarter. One of the main areas was AdSense where we made improvements for both publishers and advertisers. We launched Google AdManager for publishers, which help ad publishers make their entire inventory available on the AdSense network. And in testing, publishers really greatly increased their revenue with this, so we're really excited about it.

We also launched demographic targeting on social networks, which use gender and age information from over 30 social networks to help advertisers place ads.

Now switching gears to AdWords, one of the things we launched was a tool that gives customers better control and more data, and those things are the Conversion Optimizer, which we first launched in Q3 '07. We're now seeing really rapid adoption across our advertiser base. And what that Conversion Optimizer does is let advertisers -- or lets customers bill for customer conversion rather than for click. So you can pay basically when someone buys something rather than when someone clicks on something. As you can imagine, that really lets people optimize a lot better. And we're really excited about getting wider and wider adoption of that, and it has really been taking off like we had hoped.

Then Linux we have added industry benchmarking. Google Analytics, if you don't know what it is, it lets you track visitors to your website and all your overall traffic, and how you're doing and so on. And industry benchmarking is a new feature we launched so that you can tell how you're doing against others in your same industry, and that has been a very popular feature.

We find that Analytics customers, people who adopt Google Analytics, really just end up increasing their advertising spend with us as they better understand their metrics.

Now let me switch gears and talk about YouTube. YouTube obviously we're very excited about, it keeps growing extremely fast. We're up to about 10 hours of video uploaded every minute on YouTube. So you can imagine just the rate of that is incredible. We have NVIDIA ads, which have great adoption on YouTube. And customers are increasing the size of their campaigns.

We have now launched AdSense for videos, so now that these NVIDIA ads can run on sites besides YouTube, and they perform very well. We are seeing much better click-through ads than banner ads. And that is a really big deal and we're really excited about that.

Now we completed our acquisition of DoubleClick, and we're very, very excited about that. So their technology and network of partners is a tremendous asset, and we're very excited about what we can do together. We are working on combining our ad network with DoubleClick display ad management products. And together that really helps publishers and advertisers generate more revenue. That also can lead to a much more rich and diverse content on the Internet. So I think there is huge opportunities there, and we're very excited about how things are going so far.

Now in apps, I will switch gears to Google Apps, we launched Google Sites, which is based on the Jotspot technology we acquired. And it makes it easy for anyone to create and manage a website. And it makes it easy to add an entry as a wiki. And we it use for teams, projects, companies, schools, and we have already seeing a lot of people using that.

We also rolled out Offline Docs, using a new browser technology, Google Gears. It let you get off-line access to your Google Docs. And I think people have assumed sort of with these cloud applications, they are really great, they are easy to run with, no installation of software, they wouldn't be able to run them off-line. But we have a great new technology, Google Gears as I mentioned, that lets you run these new Web applications even when you're not connected to the Internet. I think is a very big deal.

We're also very excited about our Salesforce.com partnership. Salesforce has integrated our Google Apps products into Salesforce, and now their users have very seamless, nice access to Google Apps within their Salesforce.com experience. And we're very, very excited about that as they are as well.

Finally, I just wanted to mention a quick note on our culture. We're really proud to win Fortune's Best Place to Work Award for two years in a row. This is an amazing honor to have. I don't think we expected it, but it is a really great thing. We're also tops on Fast Company's most innovative companies list. So we work very hard to maintain the best possible environment for employees. And I think that is part of why you see the results that you do out of Google.

Now I will go to Eric.

ERIC SCHMIDT: And why don't we go ahead and go to you all questions and comments. We're very interested in your thoughts on the quarter and any other insights you all might have. Christa, should we get started?

CHRISTA BETHINGER: Operator, we're ready to go ahead and queue up for questions.

OPERATOR: (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS). Ben Schachter, UBS Securities.

BEN SCHACHTER, ANALYST, UBS SECURITIES: Congratulations on a nice quarter. I was wondering if you could talk about some of the key initiatives at DoubleClick? And what are the areas of integration that you think will be most difficult? And related to that, if you could just give us an update on display and video ads, and what types of ad units you think are performing better and worse than expected. And then finally any update on the CFO search would be helpful. Thanks.

ERIC SCHMIDT: On the CFO search, we're very pleased that George has remained and doing a great job, of course. And we have a whole bunch of interesting candidates that we are reasonably close to. We have not made any offers yet. And again, it is an important position for us to fill, but we're very hopeful in the short term.

We also have the benefit of having Omid and Jonathan joining us as usual. Omid, do you to answer the DoubleClick questions to get started, and Jonathan, maybe he can help you.

OMID KORDESTANI, SVP, GLOBAL SALES AND OPERATIONS, GOOGLE INC.: Sure. We are just going through a very complete analysis of all the products and salesforce and service activities. And fundamentally we're looking at maintaining the customer momentum that DoubleClick has had and benefited from. And looking at in a simple way how do we get more of the advertising into the network and more of their publishers benefiting from the advertising systems and the infrastructure that we are assembling together now.

The overall goal here is basically bring in more effectiveness, more accountability, more measurements that we have been asked for to deliver on. And this process in fact, was exhaustively reviewed yesterday, and there's a strategy in place. And you will hear other product announcements in the coming months.

From a customer relationship standpoint, on the display side, we're very, very active in taking advantage of our properties, especially YouTube and the content network, to increase the customer engagements. And just this past quarter, I could just name a few of these names, which I think will indicate to you perhaps the nature of how we're utilizing the salesforce really to reach significant types of customers that we haven't had as advertisers before. Nature Valley, did an incredible campaign through YouTube, utilizing everything from the contest platform, brand channel, contest gadgets, the content network, FeedBurner, so the complete host of our products.

Other names like Forex, which used CTC placement targeting. Toyota, we actually even had World Economic Forum and Davos using the YouTube platform, Dunkin' Donuts, VeriSign. So quite a diversity of advertisers now that we are working with through this integrated relationship with our [social center] properties.

JONATHAN ROSENBERG, SVP, PRODUCT MANAGEMENT, GOOGLE INC.: It is Jonathan. In terms of display and the type of adds that are doing well, if you think about it from a big picture perspective, we really feel we're in a position to become the world's largest display ads provider. Over 90% of the daily impressions that we have are eligible for display ads. And pretty much all the publishers except our new format, the gadget ads, the rich media creatives, which are served by a third-party tag are pretty much all being adopted by folks.

I think that the biggest thing that we are seeing, that Omid alluded to in terms of the examples, is the concept of an advertiser owning a concept across the entire Web and finding their whole audience. Another example is Activision, where basically I think they use seven Google products to support the launch of the Tony Hawk Proving Ground game. And Search AFC, the YouTube homepage, and I think NVIDIA format is working particular well. I guess the one thing I would also add there that we're getting traction on it is mobile ads.

ERIC SCHMIDT: Thank you. Let's go to our next question.

OPERATOR: Justin Post, Merrill Lynch.

JUSTIN POST, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: Two quick questions. First, could you talk about your display model? Do you really see yourself being able to make really interesting profitability on network sites, or do you plan to maybe put some display advertising on your own websites, which appear to be growing quite rapidly?

And the second question, maybe for George. Just the other cost of revenue growth has really -- it was like 80% if I back out some of the stock-based comp. I am just wondering what is driving that, and is that YouTube related at all?

ERIC SCHMIDT: Jonathan and Sergey, maybe you want to talk a little bit about display and how we're going to use it in our network and on our own sites.

SERGEY BRIN: This is Sergey. Just real quickly, there are certainly already sites that are Google owned sites run displays, such as YouTube, for example, is a very obviously prominent one. It has a lot of inventory. And obviously that is going beyond traditional display with the NVIDIA kinds of ads that Jonathan mentioned.

I think there are some other Google properties that might be good fits, but we haven't made clear decisions. Obviously more kind of visual sites like Orkut. There is some potential in Google Images, but we don't have any specific plans to announce today in that respect. But I also think that we are presumably making progress on display in our network also. And so I'm pretty optimistic on both front.

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: I guess the only thing I would add to that is now that we got the DoubleClick acquisition behind us, we will also offer the AdSense sites in the Media Planning tool integrated with DART for Advertisers by DoubleClick. I think you'll see that that will substantially increase the lift that we're getting there.

ERIC SCHMIDT: George, did you want to answer the second --?

GEORGE REYES: George Reyes. The driver that you are alluding to is basically driven by data center-related expenses, the associated depreciation that comes with that, and bandwidth costs, as well as some DoubleClick amortization.

OPERATOR: Doug Anmuth, Lehman Brothers.

DOUG ANMUTH, ANALYST, LEHMAN BROTHERS: You mentioned 100 quality improvements were implemented during the quarter. Can you talk about the degree to which you are already getting the price per click benefit, and whether that is up to your expectations thus far?

And then also, do you still stand by your previous view that Google really isn't seeing any impact from the macro situation? Thank you.

ERIC SCHMIDT: On the macro side -- this is Eric -- we have looked at this really carefully and we do not see an impact as of this time. We have also had the sort of internal conversation of what would happen if it were to occur, and our conclusion is that we are well-positioned should economics change, to continue to do well because our model is so targeted. And targeted advertising does well in pretty much most scenarios we think.

Sergey, Jonathan, you want to talk a little bit about the other?

SERGEY BRIN: Yes, let me just mention -- so the 100 search quality improvements I mentioned were to the search quality. I wasn't referring to the advertising quality experience. But we have also made improvements there, of course. If you recall, the clickable backgrounds that we eliminated recently, which while they reduced clicks a little bit, increased the quality of the clicks. And I think our advertisers certainly appreciate that.

But there are likewise -- I don't know the exact number -- but there are certainly dozens, if not 100, improvements in advertising quality that we also launched over this quarter. And that is going to benefit advertisers and it is going to benefit end-users who are going to see more relevant interesting advertising, and obviously because of those connections can be more fruitful. Ultimately that benefits publishers as well.

ERIC SCHMIDT: There is -- go-ahead Jon.

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: This is Jonathan. Are you asking about what the specific ads quality improvements were or are you asking whether or not the scope -- the degree to which the scope impacted pricing and RPM? What specifically are you asking about the quality?

DOUG ANMUTH: Obviously, as much as you are willing to share, Jon. But honestly I am asking which quality improvements I guess on the advertising side would you say has had the biggest benefits thus far, and are they driving price per click to the degree to which you expected them to?

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: Sure. Quality improvements intraquarter. So Sergey mentioned there were quite a few. I think there were relatively fewer in terms of impact in the quarter than we typically have. I think that was primarily not due to the number, but it was due to the fact that more of them came relatively late in the quarter compared to previous quarters.

I think the biggest ones that we have at least alluded to publicly that Sergey didn't mention are the landing page quality improvement, that we have removed a lot of the made for ad pages. So there has been substantial improvements there. There also had been some policy changes. The visible and final URL policy matching so that users always know where they end up when they are clicking on a ad, which we think in the long run is very positive.

I think we also announced the change in the UK trademarks policy, so that we now remove the restrictions on ads on trademark keywords in the UK, which is the way that we have it in the States. These are all things that are great for users. I think that UK piece isn't going to go live until Q2, so I'm not sure it had much impact in the quarter.

The one other thing that I saw, some folks had noticed, was just a very modest test, which was our automatic matching beta test. And that is basically trying to extend an advertiser campaign reach by finding ads on relevant searches that aren't triggered by the advertiser's keywords. But that is really relatively modest because that is just an initial test that we just started.

ERIC SCHMIDT: Just to add one more clarification. We often don't know the exact improvement that we're going to see in the very short term. So at least from my perspective, I'm more concerned that the improvements be put in place and that they work well, which indeed we're very pleased that they do. And then of course we will get the benefit as the advertisers see those and as the network takes advantage of it. And we can take the long view of that. Next question.

OPERATOR: Mark Mahaney, Citigroup.

MARK MAHANEY, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: I wanted to ask Sergey about some of the mobile data points. Are there enough data points, do you have enough experience, particularly in the international markets now, to know what the economics of mobile search could look like relative to the PC search? Are the leads being generated off of mobile devices as qualified more so or less so? Are advertisers willing to pay more or less for that?

And then I wanted to ask another question on the paid clicks. At 20% year-over-year growth is obviously much better than was feared. There still is a pretty clear level of deceleration in the paid click growth on a year-over-year basis, even if your trend line it going back a year and a half. Part of that must be due to your quality initiatives. Do you think about it in terms of trying to get to a paid click growth at a certain anniversaring of these paid click -- these quality improvements, whereby that growth will remain in the 20% or low -- high double -- low double-digit rates at a more sustainable basis because of these quality improvements? Thank you.

ERIC SCHMIDT: Sergey, do you want to talk about mobile?

SERGEY BRIN: Yes. On mobile, I don't have the hard stats in front of me right this very second. But I can tell you kind of anecdotally what I have seen. In the countries and markets where mobile has developed in the sense that devices have high-resolution, networks have low latency, the experience works, which basically like Japan and a few others that are up-and-coming, the mobile search and ads works very well. And I don't have the exact date in front of me right now, as I said, but there is certainly nothing to dissuade me that it would be substantially worse than traditional desktop search.

I think that in -- if you look in the U.S. and Europe, which are a little bit behind those, but are I think are progressing, I think you'll increasingly see a greater volume and a greater quality of mobile usage, and consequently advertising conversion ultimately.

Now you have a significant challenge in mobile, the screens are much smaller so you can't just go displaying nearly as much advertising or take as much space. On the other hand, you have much more relevant and timely information like what the location of a person might be. And so that on balance leaves me quite optimistic.

ERIC SCHMIDT: The short answer to your deceleration question is the answer is no. We look at the problem of paid clicks as one of the components of an overall quality improvement. We know that if we can improve aggregate quality, we know that the value of a click, the number of clicks and so forth, will grow and they will grow at whatever the technology will allow.

So if you look, our absolute growth rate has been very, very significant. We're very, very optimistic that this model of staying focused on quality will give us not only the strongest ad network, but a much broader set of solutions for advertisers, and it works well.

OPERATOR: James Mitchell, Goldman Sachs.

JAMES MITCHELL, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: One question was with regards to the user response to Universal Search in non-U.S. territories where you have rolled it out. And in particular whether you think Universal Search can help you gain share in those countries where you are not the market leader, and where the incumbent lacks comparable functionality?

The other question I was looking back over the past few quarters. I believe you have noticed your business was less seasonally affected in the summer months of 2007 than in prior years. Do you think that something is structurally changing your business to reduce seasonality, or do you think that 2007 was erratic in some way? Thank you.

ERIC SCHMIDT: On the seasonality, I'm not sure I agree with that characterization. There are so many variables that have to do with improvements, product launches, customer deals renewing, change in TAC rates, and all of those kinds of things. It is very difficult to say that looking at an aggregate number was -- in particular our change in seasonal growth rate, was a very big deal.

We know there is a seasonality in the business. It is very difficult for us to know exactly where it is. As you correctly pointed out, Q2 and Q3 are traditionally weaker quarters. And my guess is that that will be simply true because the majority of Internet users are still in the Northern Hemisphere, which is where people tend to take summer vacations. Sergey, you want to talk about Universal Search?

SERGEY BRIN: Yes, on the Universal Search, I think Universal Search is a very big win from a point of view of the search experience. Now in some of these international markets, like if you look at Korea, in fact, the local competitors do have something that is very much akin to Universal Search. So in fact it is -- I think that people's expectations there are already to have Universal Search results. And so it is not necessarily something new we're introducing to then there. Though I think our ability to rank and to bring in these diverse corpuses that we have will -- I think will surprise people and they will be impressed by how good it is.

In other markets, you are right, I think, that these additional corpuses and our ability to blend is a substantial distinction. And I think we're going to benefit from that effect. In fact obviously we have lots of international or foreign language videos and images and so forth. And we have a certain number of books as well in there. So I think we're going to benefit from all that hard work that we have put into those corpuses.

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: This is Jonathan, just adding one narrow point and one broad point on your questions about seasonality. Narrowly within each quitter there are things that make one year significantly different from another. This year you had Easter falling actually in Q1, whereas in previous years it has fallen in Q2.

On the other hand, offsetting that this year you had a leap year, which in this year was actually on a Friday. Although since it added one more day in the quarter, the net results of leap year was giving us one more Monday in the quarter. And when you think about that, that actually equates to something in the ballpark of about 1%.

The broader question in terms of the business moving forward with respect to seasonality is highly dependent on market share. In many markets if you will look historically, we were gaining share. And in some cases in previous years that significantly masked seasonality. In markets where we have very, very high share then the business starts to become much -- it starts to look more seasonal in nature than it has in the past.

JAMES MITCHELL: Thank you for those very comprehensive answers.

ERIC SCHMIDT: Let's move to our next question. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Imran Khan, JP Morgan.

IMRAN KHAN, ANALYST, JP MORGAN: Two questions. Larry, you talked about monetization improvement for social networking, how you're doing more demographic targeting. Could you please give us some color like what kind of progress you have made monetizing social networking compared to Q4?

And second question is regarding how you're improving the search quality in the international market. Can you give us some sense in terms of the frequency of search in your lesser developed countries, like Continental Europe, compared to more developed, like the U.S. and UK, the frequency of search volume by person? Thank you.

LARRY PAGE: This is Larry. About social networking monetization, I think it has been an area where we have really applied a lot of new technologies. I mentioned the demographic targeting and so on, which has been very successful. I think the challenge and the opportunity there is there is a huge amount of inventory. We have obviously MySpace, Orkut in our network, and another number of other social networks. And those -- there's a lot of usage of those, and so there's a tremendous amount of inventory.

And so part of it is just getting that advertiser ecosystem built up and people targeting that inventory and doing it in a way that make sense for those advertisers. I think we have made a lot of improvements and I'm optimistic that there are more improvements to be made. That is balanced against tremendous inventory levels in those areas, which it takes some time for advertisers to really realize they are there and start targeting effectively.

SERGEY BRIN: This is Sergey. I don't think we consider Continental Europe less developed. I do think that in the advertising space we have seen that they are sort of coming up on the ramp that the U.S. and the UK might have been a year or two ago. So that obviously gives us great opportunity for growth advertising-wise.

But in terms of basic Internet usage and searches per user -- once again, I don't have the data in front of me -- what we have seen is it typically just depends on broadband penetration and quality of broadband. And the more people have access to great networks and computers to use them, the more search is an overall Internet usage they will do.

That is why you see this skew during the week that Monday through Friday we do tend to get a lot more research than on the weekends. And obviously part of that is because people are relaxing off the Internet on weekends. But part of it also is that typically often people at home don't have as good a connectivity and Internet access as they do at the office.

OPERATOR: Christa Quarles, Thomas Weisel Partners.

CHRISTA QUARLES, ANALYST, THOMAS WEISEL PARTNERS: The first question, I guess, you mentioned in the UK that travel and finance has rebounded. I was just wondering if you could discuss travel, finance and hopefully retail more broadly across the U.S. and some of your other geographies in terms of strength or any relative weakness?

The second question is just should Yahoo choose to outsource part of its search to you, I was wondering if you could discuss philosophically what the benefit would be to Google's own properties to the extent that you have a broader or deeper ad network, broader advertising, if you will, coming to the site? Thanks.

ERIC SCHMIDT: On the Yahoo question, we are very excited to be participating in this test. This is the beginning of the second week on the test. I don't think it is really appropriate to speculate beyond that. But it is nice to be working with Yahoo, and we like them very much.

Omid, do you want to answer the UK question, or Jonathan? Who has the best data here?

OMID KORDESTANI: We will both probably take this on. In general, what we are seeing is that these verticals are really -- behave by region, as you are indicating. The factors that determine, for example, in the geography, we have talked about this in the past, the renewal rates of finance or travel reservations that get done in UK drive those verticals.

I think in general we saw in Q1 a bit of slow down in retail, some postponement of budgets. And we haven't seen anything that significantly indicates to us that one vertical or another is at risk here. We just are going deeper into these accounts. And in some cases when the budgets are delayed, it is made up by other online categories.

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: This is Jonathan. I think what we -- if you think about what economists would typically theorize in a macroeconomic climate that was slowing, they would look at sectors like some of the ones you mentioned, automotive, luxury goods. We also attract travel and finance. And you would look for the ones that are more sensitive to macroeconomic conditions, and look and see what is going on with them.

What we tend to see is that clicks in some of those sensitive areas do grow a little less rapidly than our overall growth. So the share of their total queries is actually down. But on an absolute basis, they are all showing healthy growth in ad revenue.

In the UK, for example, people are clicking on travel and local ads at a higher rate than they do in the U.S. In finance, although certain components of finance are down, foreclosures are up. And even mortgages do pretty well. If you think about foreclosures, every foreclosure at some point becomes a home sale and a mortgage to somebody. Generally what we are seeing is absolute growth coming even in those areas that are otherwise adversely impacted by macroeconomic conditions.

CHRISTA QUARLES: So you're basically indicating that you would even potentially see price improvements in those areas as the conversion rates -- the conversions continue?

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: Yes, it varies.

ERIC SCHMIDT: I think the best way to say that is that it is possible that prices grow up in that situation, simply because of the great value of targeted advertising. Why don't we keep going. Let's get our next question.

OPERATOR: Brian Pitz, BOA Securities.

BRIAN PITZ, ANALYST, BOA SECURITIES: Can you talk about how much of your international growth was really due to the sunsetting of European best practice funding? And then separately, would you provide any updates on China, and perhaps discuss any new initiatives that Kai-Fu Lee and team may be working on over there?

ERIC SCHMIDT: I'm sorry. Could you repeat the second question?

BRIAN PITZ: Sure, just updates on China, and the team, Kai-Fu Lee, things that they are working on over there, some new initiatives we may not have heard about.

ERIC SCHMIDT: On the China side, things are going well. Why don't we move to our next question.

OPERATOR: Ross Sandler, RBC.

ROSS SANDLER, ANALYST, RBC: Looking at the U.S. growth rate of 30% approximately in the first quarter, if you had to characterize your small, medium-sized kind of self signup advertisers versus your large agency, your direct enterprise size advertisers, which segment was growing faster in the quarter relative to that 30%? Thanks.

ERIC SCHMIDT: Again, I'm sorry. We had a phone problem here. Could you just repeat the substance of the question again?

ROSS SANDLER: Sure. The growth rate in the U.S. is 30% year-over-year. If you had to characterize which area was growing faster between the small, medium-sized kind of self signup advertisers on your platform versus the larger agency or direct enterprise type clients, which was the faster growing segment in the quarter? That is it. Thanks.

OMID KORDESTANI: This is -- I don't have the actual breakdown in front of me right now. This is Omid. What I will say is we're doing very interesting collaboration between both of our channels. In fact, in some regions we have three, with some resellers involved.

One of the things we tend to do is that, just try to put our relationships with the customers into the right channels. In many cases where we find that we can in a very effective way service our clients through our online organization, we do that. And that organization, in fact, has top tier clients now, that are some -- even some brand names, that are well served by our organization.

What we're trying to do with the direct sales organization is really focus on just higher end calls into the C level, if you will, to the CNO level, where we are also representing the full suite of products, the integrated campaigns between YouTube in the U.S. -- obviously we are also experimenting with a lot of the new initiatives from TV to radio advertising. So we can perhaps on the follow-up calls get you more specific stats on the different geographies and the ratios between those two channels. But there's a lot of movement of customers that we do again to optimize the relationship with the customers.

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: This is Jonathan, I guess just trying to add a little bit more color to Omid. We definitely tend to see that it is the larger customers that are the bigger drivers of growth. Whether or not on a relative basis to the previous year they were bigger drivers I think is unclear. But we have released a lot of tools like Analytics and the Conversion Optimizer. And those are the type of things that tend to get adopted disproportionately by the larger, more sophisticated advertisers. And we do see that as advertisers adopt those tools it substantially fuels growth. So there certainly is significant growth with the larger advertisers.

ERIC SCHMIDT: Let's go to our next question. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Heath Terry, Credit Suisse.

HEATH TERRY, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: I was wondering, you mentioned that you are seeing much better click-throughs on the overlay ads versus your normal on the banner ads. By our measure we're only seeing running -- overlay ads running on content where you have clear relationships, like the MBA and Universal Music. What are the barriers to running ads on a broader spectrum of YouTube's inventory, particularly the user generated content that you've got?

OMID KORDESTANI: This is Omid. What we really focus on right now is working with YouTube management, Chad and team, to really actually go from, if you will, the plumbing and work all the way up to what the customers and advertisers see. There's a lot of integration going on. YouTube was already a large DoubleClick customer, and we are trying to basically streamline how the integration of DoubleClick and YouTube can be improved. And how do we take advantage of our ad network so that more of these advertisers could be represented? How do we work with the owners of content, be it user generated or otherwise, to actually find the right match up with the right advertisers, so we basically have a much better targeting of ads and also promotion of the right types of content?

So it is a very comprehensive plan that we have put in place. We have a 2008 plan that has very specific milestones from -- again, all the way from the systems and infrastructure that we need to provide better integration. All the way to the different types of ads. I think it is very early to make any kind of judgment about which ads are working well and which ones are they. We're really trying to have these integrated campaigns tried out by the salesforce and our customers, and do a lot of learning and settle on the product roadmap.

ERIC SCHMIDT: Thank you. Let's have a couple of more questions. And it looks like we missed a question, so maybe we can get that caller to call back in as well. Operator, let's go ahead, next question.

OPERATOR: David Joseph, Morgan Stanley.

DAVID JOSEPH, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Just made quick question -- or there are two. As you integrate DoubleClick into AdSense, should we expect that to be a growth driver in addition to contextual ads, or is it possible it actually starts to cannibalize contextual advertising?

Also, how is Google AdManager going to coexist with the DoubleClick technology, or ads serving technology? And also should we assume that obviously DoubleClick is recognized in AdSense revenue from here on out? Thank you.

OMID KORDESTANI: In terms of the DoubleClick products -- this is Omid -- we really are optimistic that where we're headed to is, what our head of sales in the U.S, Tim Armstrong calls the CNO dashboard. What our hope is that by basically providing the integration across the board here, we end up having in a simple way again more -- allow DoubleClick folks to access more AdWords advertisers, and having the DoubleClick advertisers have access to the AdSense network. And that is our goal. So we are really hoping that all of this will be incremental, and that ultimately we get to a point where the CNOs can have a very effective way to measure the effectiveness of the advertisers and do the right allocation of their ad budgets across the board here.

ERIC SCHMIDT: Jonathan, did you want to add anything to that?

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: I think the only obvious thing to add is that adding more display creates more competition among advertisers. We will have more premium inventory from publishers. And those things will certainly be additive to fuel each other. I certainly don't think DART plus AdSense is going to result in any kind of cannibalization. There is plenty of reasons to believe that there are positive dynamics, and it is unclear that there are any negative ones.

OPERATOR: Brian Pitz, BOA Securities.

ERIC SCHMIDT: Thanks, Brian. It appears as though we didn't hear your question because there was a phone problem, so I apologize. Maybe you could ask your question again and we will restart. I am sorry.

BRIAN PITZ: Sure. No problem. Just wondering how much of your international growth was due to the sunsetting of the European best practices funding that you guys talked about before?

And then separately, you mentioned 90% of impressions are eligible for display. Can you talk about the effect of CPM differences between display ad formats versus text links on your network? Thanks.

ERIC SCHMIDT: On the first question, Omid, do you want it talk about it. Could you repeat your China question for me?

BRIAN PITZ: Yes, just an update on China. We just wanted to get a sense for any new initiatives that were actually -- the Company was working on over in China. There has been some articles out.

ERIC SCHMIDT: Let me give you a sense on the China situation. We are seeing marketshare growth and good revenue growth as we have learned to operate in that environment. Although the advertising business is nascent in China, the fact of the matter is that the Chinese Internet is so large that even on a small basis the numbers add up to quite a significant with good growth rate.

We believe that China will continue to be a good market for us, as we hopefully gain share. We have significant new products with respect to Chinese knowledge, Chinese users, Chinese language, Chinese search. And that is our core goal. So the message there is good. Omid, you want to talk about the international?

OMID KORDESTANI: On the EPS, really it was something we announced a while back. And we have a -- our goal really is to have a very successful relationship with agencies across the world. We just felt that the previous program -- and actually the goal of the program was really to rework the way we engage properly together in servicing advertisers, and also going after these new initiatives.

The real performance in Europe comes from the great work that the European team is doing in really understanding the dynamics of the business, putting the right customers in the right channels in each region. Really understanding the dynamics of each industry vertical that we're selling into and paying attention to the seasonality effects, and where to put them -- put the resources and servicing and selling clients.

On the CPM, CBC question, we really -- our goal there is simply to allow again the advertisers to pay the way they wish between the display products and the text products. And ultimately the goal here is to focus on conversions for them, however, best they can measure and achieve their campaign objectives.

ERIC SCHMIDT: Jonathan, did you want to talk about display at all?

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: The question specifically related to content and display and the dynamics in terms of how they interact and how that works and how that is going?

BRIAN PITZ: It is more along the lines of just the effective CPM difference between display formats and text links on the networks.

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: Basically, what we're doing is we're trying to come up with a way to manage the auctions so that you can have the display ads competing with the text ads. And multiple text ads basically in the auction have to compete in such a manner that they trump the value of the display ad. Typically three text ads versus one display ad unit. And we're still basically working through the -- and so that is basically how it works. I'm not quite sure what else you're asking.

ERIC SCHMIDT: Why don't we go ahead and get our last question. Thank you very much, Brian.

OPERATOR: Mark May, Needham & Company.

MARK MAY, ANALYST, NEEDHAM & COMPANY: Thanks for taking my question, which is focused on the U.S. revenues, which grew $29 million sequentially. If one were to make an estimate of DoubleClick's contribution, one might conclude that the U.S. revenues were flat to maybe up marginally sequentially.

Eric, I think earlier you said you are really seeing a meaningful impact on the business from the macro economic environment. I think it was also mentioned that the majority of the search quality improvements occurred outside the U.S. So the question is, is the sequential growth that you put up this quarter, which is far lower than it has been in the past, is that more a reflection of where we are in the search cycle -- search ad cycle in the U.S. or given that it is not really macroeconomic, that would be great.

ERIC SCHMIDT: We know what it is not. And we know that it is not macroeconomic. It can have as much to do with the timing of deals, partner activity, the timing of product rollouts and the maturity, as you pointed out, of the U.S. market. Also the rate at which both search quality improvements play out within the quarter as well as advertising quality, because again they don't necessarily implement exactly linearly in the quarter across every geography. Jonathan, do you want to add any prospective to that?

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: I think the only obvious thing to look at, you have to be very careful when you look at the annualized year-over-year comparisons to try to isolate the impact in a quarter. The biggest thing that you would separate out there from the U.S. relative to international is that in the base quarter that you're comparing to, which would be this quarter last year, we added a lot of really big partners in Q1 of last year to AdSense.

And so relative to that year, this year we didn't have that many incremental partners to add. So I think that is, everything else being constant otherwise, leading you to see what appears to be a relative reduction in the U.S. But it is primarily a factor of that. There is also the AdSense for domains cleanup, which we talked about earlier.

ERIC SCHMIDT: My guess is that the two that Jonathan described are the primary cause. We have to go back and really back solve it to be sure.

Let's finish up by saying, first, thank you very much for everybody spending -- your time is a valuable thing -- certainly more than an hour listening to us and talking about Google.

I also want to take a minute to thank Omid for something. I don't know, Omid, if you remember, but right after I started here, I told you to go get on an airplane and go build some international operations. You flew to London and the rest is history. This is the quarter where we are now 51% international revenue. And I don't think that percentage is going to go down. The world is a very big place. Congratulations to our international sales teams, our international leadership for making Google a truly global Company. Thank you all.

OPERATOR: This concludes today's conference. We thank you for your participation. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
goog : Google Inc.
   IN
i8395464 : Internet Search Engines | iint : Internet/Online Services
   NS
c11 : Plans/Strategy | c15 : Performance | ntra : Transcript | c151 : Earnings | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | uk : United Kingdom | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe
   PUB
Voxant, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020080501e44h000uq
  


 HD
 Q4  2007 Google Earnings Conference Call - Final   
   WC
9,564 words
   PD
31 January 2008
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.     

   LP
OPERATOR: Good day and welcome everyone to the  Google, Inc. conference call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Ms. Christa Bethinger.   

CHRISTA BETHINGER, IR, GOOGLE: Good afternoon, everyone and welcome to today's fourth quarter 2007 earnings conference call. With us are Eric Schmidt, Chief Executive Officer; George Reyes, Chief Financial Officer, Larry Page, Founder and President of Products; Sergey Brin, Founder and President of Technology; Jonathan Rosenberg, Senior Vice President of Product Management; Omid Kordestani, Senior Vice President of Global Sales and Operations. Eric, George, Larry and Sergey will provide their thoughts on the quarter, and then Jonathan and Omid will join us for Q&A.   

   TD
Please note that this call is being webcast from our investor relations web site. Our press release, issued in a few minutes ago, is also posted on the web site along with the slides that accompany today's prepared remarks. A replay of this call was also be available on our investor relations web site in a few hours.   

Now let me quickly cover the Safe Harbor statement. Some of the statements we make today may be considered forward-looking, including statements regarding our investments, seasonality, traffic acquisition costs, increase in the cost of sales, international growth, operating margins, growth in headcount and our expected level of capital expenditures. These statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially. Please note that these forward-looking statements reflect our opinions only as of the date of this presentation and we undertake no obligation to revise or publicly release the results of any revision to these forward-looking statements in light of new information or future events. Please refer to our SEC filings, including our quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2007, as well as our earnings press release posted a few minutes ago for a more detailed description of the risk factors that may affect our results. Copies can be obtained from the SEC or by visiting the investor relations section of our web site.   

Also please note that certain financial measures we use on this call, such as EPS, net income, operating margin and operating income, are expressed on a non-GAAP basis and have been adjusted to exclude charges relating to stock-based compensation. We have also adjusted our net cash provided by operating activities to remove capital expenditures which we refer to as free cash flow. Our GAAP results and GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliation can be found on our earnings press release on our web site.   

With that, it is my pleasure to turn the call over to Eric.   

ERIC SCHMIDT, CHAIRMAN, CEO, GOOGLE: Thank you very much, Christa. Looking at 2007, we're very, very pleased and also with the quarter that has just ended. If you look at 2007, a strong financial performance across the board reflecting a performance and a focus here at  Google on both growth and profitability with of course very strong revenue, operating income and earnings.   

I want to call out strong international growth. More than half of our search traffic is now outside the United States, more than 150 domains and still growing. The international market is still very nascent with tremendous potential for what we can do over time. And of course, the model at  Google about product improvements and innovation continues -- hundreds of search quality launches, greater advertiser control and transparency, obviously higher ROI as a result. Lots of new ads formats, YouTube video ads, for example, contests, branded channels. We're working hard by the way to promote open mobile and developer platforms and we're completing an applications suite, Postini Integration, Presentations, etc. And in concert with both product and an international focus, we have a global team. We now have offices in more than 20 countries. We're working on having a local presence across global markets and this global local focus is reflected both in our organization and our products and with the way we run the Company.   

Of course in Q4, solid quarter without a question. Pleased with traffic growth across the board, even in the relatively mature markets, which is always exciting. Obviously we're very happy with gross revenue on both Google.com and on our AdSense partners. I think we're going to have Larry and Sergey take you through product highlights. My emphasis area is search, infrastructure investments, things we don't talk that much about. Leading to improved quality as seen by end-users that we can measure. Ads, of course, giving advertisers more control as the product matures and obviously as a result improving their return on investment. The apps strategy, which we announced earlier in the year, now fully visible. More innovation, data portability, all of the apps now either in place or coming. And mobile, which we're very excited about with Android, the MyLocation service that's part of Maps. So many other new features that are both out and coming.   

So we are optimistic about 2008. We have growing revenue streams across a broad range of verticals and markets. As I mentioned, this international market, which is central to our global role, is still relatively nascent with tremendous potential. Ad dollars continuing to move from off-line to online, a trend which is not going to reverse. And of course, our ability to use our strong position in markets in order to essentially offer more services to end-users and get people even more to see the new benefits of the new Internet world.   

So with that, rather than me talking about more of the details, why don't we hear from George and then Larry and Sergey on some of the amazing things that have been happening. George?   

GEORGE REYES, SVP, CFO, GOOGLE: Thanks, Eric, and good afternoon, everyone. The high level, we had another strong quarter with gross revenue increasing 51% over Q4 of 2006 to $4.8 billion. Our Google.com properties increased 58% year-over-year, reflecting strong traffic growth during the holiday retail season and to a lesser extent monetization growth. AdSense revenue grew 37% over Q4 of 2006 driven by particularly solid performance among our AdSense for search partners, including e-commerce and search partners.   

Offsetting this growth was the impact of a quality improvement to AdSense for content. This changed the clickable area around the text-based ads to only the title and URL, reducing the number of accidental clicks and increasing advertiser ROI.   

Now let's look at aggregate paid clicks growth. Aggregate paid clicks includes clicks related to ads served on  Google properties, as well as ads served on partner sites. Aggregate paid clicks grew approximately 30% over Q4 of 2006 and approximately 9% over Q3.   

Let me now discuss our international performance. International revenue increased to $2.3 billion, or 48% of revenue in Q4. Revenue in the UK grew 5% this quarter to $692 million, reflecting the usual Q4 seasonal slowdown in the Finance and Travel verticals. Revenue growth in EMEA was primarily driven by a strong performance in France and Germany where gains were made in the Retail, Technology and Finance verticals. We also saw solid gains in relatively smaller markets, such as Canada, Ireland, Spain and the Nordics. Asia and Latin America continue to show impressive growth rates as well with Brazil, Mexico, Argentina and China being notable performers in the quarter.   

Now turning to expenses, traffic acquisition costs were $1.4 billion, or roughly 30.3% of total advertising revenue, down 40 basis points year-over-year but up from 29.1% in Q3. The increase in overall TAC rate was primarily related to the performance of a few AdSense partner sites for which we are required to make guaranteed payments. We have found that social networking inventory is not monetizing as well as expected. AdSense TAC was $1.3 billion while TAC related to distribution partners and others who direct traffic to our web sites totaled $125 million in the quarter.   

Turning to other costs of revenue which includes $6 million in stock-based compensation -- increased $75 million over Q3 to $516 million. The largest of the increase was the increase in costs related to our data centers, including depreciation, equipment and operations. We continue to anticipate that other cost of sales could increase going forward. Other than cost of revenues, operating expenses in Q4 totaled $1.4 billion, including approximately $239 million in stock-based compensation. Expenses related to payroll and facilities increased $97 million to $756 million. At the end of the quarter, we had a full-time employee base of 16,805 employees. We added 889 employees in Q4 with over half of the hires being in engineering, followed by sales and marketing. We have implemented and continue to follow a disciplined hiring process in all areas of our organization. Hiring in Q4 tends to be slower due to the holidays, but as we have indicated in the past we will continue to invest in our core business both in the U.S. and internationally.   

Turning to non-GAAP operating income which excludes stock-based compensation -- increased to $1.7 billion in Q4 with non-GAAP operating margins of 35% compared to 36% in Q3. This sequential decrease in margins was driven primarily by the increase in overall TAC as discussed earlier. As we have said before, margins may decline in the future as we continue to make ongoing investments in our business.   

Turning to tax, our effective tax rate for Q4 was 25%. Our Q4 rate was more favorably impacted by an R&D tax credit in Q4 compared to Q3 as a result of stock option activity. This was the primary driver of the difference in tax rates between Q3 and Q4. And finally turning to cash, operating cash flow remained strong at $1.7 billion with CapEx for the quarter of $678 million. As in previous quarters, the majority of our CapEx was related to IT infrastructure investments, including data center construction, production of servers and networking equipment. We expect to continue to make these significant investments in CapEx in future quarters.   

Free cash flow, a non-GAAP measure which we define as cash flow from operations less CapEx, was also strong at $1 billion.   

So in summary, we believe our results reflect the strength of our core business across our three primary initiatives -- search, ads and apps -- with disciplined investments that position us very well to capitalize on the long-term opportunities we see for  Google. With that, I would like to turn the conversation over to Larry.   

LARRY PAGE, CO-FOUNDER & PRESIDENT, PRODUCTS, GOOGLE: Thank you, George. I'm really excited to tell you about some key new things that we did in both search and advertising.   

So to begin with in search, we had over 100 launches in Q4 with focus on our internationalization and investing in our quality. One of those was universal search, which is now available in 15 languages, up six in Q4. We also launched the Universal Navigation Bar in all languages, which gives our users easier access to all of our  Google properties and book results are now blended in all domains.   

We also made some behind the scenes infrastructure improvements to improve our quality. And then the biggest of those was increased index size which really improved relevancy, especially for non-English results. We also had substantial improvements in latency and freshness, particularly in Europe, Middle East and Asia and Asia-Pacific.   

We also made it easier for Webmasters to make their sites searchable, and there's two things there. The first was Webmaster tools. We had several million sites now using and actually we doubled our user base over last year, and that basically lets Webmasters easily tell what is being [culled] from their site and what is being indexed and so forth. And, we added that a bunch of new features to that in Q4.   

We also have our Site Maps product, which is another tool to let Webmasters make their sites easier to [call]. And we added Florida, District of Columbia and UK National Archives, among many other sites, and added many, many, many thousands of pages there.   

Now in Ads, that's obviously where we get a large portion of our revenue. We launched some key features there that really drove performance for advertisers and really helped us gain traction. The first of those in AdWords was called the AdWords Conversion Optimizer, which we launched in early January. And that lets customers bid by specifying a cost per acquisition rather than a cost per click. So for example you could pay only when someone actually buys something, rather than just when someone clicks on your ad. And AdWords is actually, the system actually optimizes their click-based bids to approximate that cost per acquisition for each auction and that has really gotten strong adoption, particularly among our larger clients and we're really excited about that. It really improves the advertiser return on investment, it gives them more conversions, which is really what they care about when they actually make money at a lower cost per conversion.   

In AdSense, we also launched cost-per-click on placement targeted campaigns, such as campaigns that are on a particular web site. And this got strong adoption and it really helped drive better performance and increase for our direct response advertisers. So we're really excited about that too. Now I'm going to turn it over to Sergey.   

SERGEY BRIN, CO-FOUNDER & PRESIDENT, TECHNOLOGY, GOOGLE: Thanks, Larry. I want to talk to you about some of our relatively newer initiatives. I want to start with  Google Apps and related products, Gmail. Gmail launched an important new infrastructure in Q4, and this has really increased performance. For those of you who are Gmail users, you may have noticed how it loads a little bit snappier. You can switch between conversations a little bit faster. It has really improved my productivity and I hope you see that as well.   

In addition to that, this new infrastructure has really made development easier, and in fact we were able after that launch eight new features within a span of eight weeks. A couple of new features that also makes Gmail more open, we have added IMAP support so you can use all of your favorite e-mail clients, including of course devices like the iPhone. And you don't have to use Pop3 anymore, you can use IMAP, which is the better way to go, if you have the choice.   

You can also now chat with AOL Instant Messaging users, so this is great now in the  Google Chat screen in Gmail. You can connect not just to other  Google Talk users, but also AIM users which is a really large population.   

I want to jump now from Gmail to YouTube. YouTube has continued to have really strong user growth. In fact, we had a few special events that just demonstrate this. We hosted the CNN Republican debate together with CNN, and in fact almost as many people saw it on YouTube as did on CNN. We consider this a great milestone and we hope to continue to do great partnerships with CNN and others to jointly grow audience for that.   

We also, I should mention that YouTube is now also available in 17 languages, eight more than last quarter, and so we're seeing a lot of international growth. We're really excited about that.   

In enterprise we have gotten a lot of increased interest trial and adoption of  Google Apps in larger companies. First of all, we signed an agreement with  Taylor Woodrow, which is the construction services division of Taylor Wimpy, FTSE 100 Company in the UK. We are also finalizing the agreement to deploy  Google Apps at  Genentech. And those are just a couple of the really big ones. We have -- we're talking to many, many companies and many are adopting it all the time.   

In addition, the universities that have deployed this quarter includes the University of Southern California, the University of North Carolina Greensboro, Florida International and Clemson.   

Now jumping a little bit aside in Mobile. We really have been revving the  Google Maps for Mobile among other applications and  Google Maps is just really useful on your cell phone now. Some of you might have seen our launch of MyLocation, which allows you to see where you are on your cell phone, even if you do not have a GPS-enabled phone, and that is really amazing. In fact, even if you have a GPS in your phone, the MyLocation can give you a first cut much faster than you can usually get a GPS signal, and it will work indoors. I was just using this -- I was at a conference in Switzerland. I was able to find a really small hotel and then even switchover to the satellite view on my phone to figure out that I needed to take a (inaudible) to get up there. It was just a really amazing experience. And we continue to add features and reliability to it all the time.   

I should mention MyLocation is available in 21 countries and it works on four different platforms altogether. We also launched a new rev of apps for the iPhone. We call it Grand Prix internally. Basically, you get access that is really fast and integrated to the major  Google products, including Search, Gmail, Calendar, Reader and others, and it has really had great update. I use it personally myself. Many people have really been enjoying this product. It's growing very rapidly.   

Last but not least, I just want to do a shot out to Android, which is the operating system that we are developing for mobile phones, and it's completely open of course. It's going to really solve a lot of the challenges that companies in the mobile industry have. We have released the SDK for it. We've formed the Open Handset Alliance, which has now 34 industry leaders in it, and we really think that this is going to make Internet and mobile hopefully as frictionless as it is on your desktop normal Internet experience. This is going to spawn lots more activity and what we love is to see lots of great open access to the Internet, wherever and whenever you are.   

Anyway, that's what we have been doing on those fronts, and now back to you, Eric.   

ERIC SCHMIDT: Thank you very much, George, Larry, Sergey. As you can see, not only did we have a very good 2007, but we are quite optimistic about '08 and our model continues to work very well.   

Why don't we go ahead and move to your questions, and I would also like to bring in Omid and Jonathan previously introduced to help us answer your questions on this or anything else. So could we go ahead and get our first question?   

OPERATOR: (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS). Imran Khan,  JP Morgan.

IMRAN KHAN, ANALYST, JP MORGAN: Two questions. First, paid click growth rate declined 15 percentage point, sequential year-over-year growth rate. So I was trying to understand that how much of that growth rate decline was due to the changes you made and if you see any improvement in the price per click, because it increased customers' return on investment because the year-over-year revenue growth that decelerated 10 points as well on your website. So I want to understand the relationship between price per click and paid clicks growth rate.   

And secondly, social network monetization is difficult, you talked about that, and I believe it's with  News Corp. that you signed a long-term contract. So how should we think about that contract, and what does that mean for your TAC rate going forward?   

ERIC SCHMIDT: Why don't we start with Jonathan? Why don't you take the first part of Imran's question?   

JONATHAN ROSENBERG, SVP, PRODUCT MANAGEMENT, GOOGLE: Sure, Imran. Basically, paid click growth which you referred to tracks the traffic growth rate, and the traffic growth did decelerate. The number of search ads basically grew faster than the number of content ads, so I think one of the things that you have to look at there is what is the mix issue. And then, I think there were probably some secondary factors there. Some factors would include things like the focus that we've had on weeding out the low CTC high click-through rate/low quality advertisers. So that is probably a component. The other thing that we did was, there was probably some impact from the non-clickable backgrounds which we launched on AdSense for content. So those were probably the biggest things. I think there was also a little bit of an issue with the timing of the holiday. Monday and Tuesday were Christmas and Christmas Eve, which are conventionally our biggest days, so that was probably a component.   

On the CTC side, generally CTCs have been going up, click-through rates have been going up and coverage has been going down. I'm not sure I could add much more there.   

SERGEY BRIN: I just wanted to follow up on the social networking question. We don't talk about individual partners' performance or anything like that. Now I do want to highlight though, we have had a challenge in Q4 with social networking inventory as a whole and some of the monetization work we were doing there did not pan out as well as we had hoped. But we're continuing with the efforts and we're still optimistic about future quarter.   

OPERATOR: Doug Anmuth,  Lehman Brothers.

DOUG ANMUTH, ANALYST, LEHMAN BROTHERS: My question is regarding the UK. It looks like your growth Q2 was about 5% in the UK, and that compares to about 11% in the fourth quarter of last year. Can you talk about what you're seeing there beyond the usual categories that you may see weakness in typically during 4Q, and what you're seeing there from a macro perspective as well? Thank you.   

ERIC SCHMIDT: Omid, do you want to go ahead and handle that?   

OMID KORDESTANI, SVP, GLOBAL SALES & BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT, GOOGLE: In general, we're very pleased with our performance in Europe, and actually, I know you asked about UK, but very quickly, we are seeing great results in France and Germany as well in the retail category. And I think in UK, we saw the typical seasonal patterns, but we were -- and there are certain categories that we believe the auction is in effect fully sold out and we're working on clever ideas and conversion analysis for our partners to really improve their understanding of how they should spend and how they should price their bids. But overall, we're very satisfied with the penetration we have with the major accounts. We were at the CEO-CMO tables, I was there throughout Q4, and overall we are seeing a lot of strength in the market.   

DOUG ANMUTH: Are those two categories, Travel and Financial, that are typically [seasonally weak], do you feel like there's an additional macro impact there?   

OMID KORDESTANI: No, those two were the primary ones.   

ERIC SCHMIDT: Jonathan, do want to add anything to that?   

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: I was just going to add that it was Finance and Travel. Maybe the only other point to look at there is, if you look at the total percentage of advertising spend in the UK, some of the public data says that it's roughly 15, 16, 17% or search, whereas in the United States, it's more like 6%. So one of the things that you see there is that the seasonality, particularly in those two verticals, is much more marked because they're spending a disproportionately greater amount of money in total on search engine efforts.   

OPERATOR: Jennifer Watson,  Goldman Sachs.

JENNIFER WATSON, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Can you give us a little bit more detail on the feedback that you're getting from both advertisers and consumers on the YouTube advertisements that you guys rolled out?   

OMID KORDESTANI: We were doing what I can best characterize as just a lot of touch points there with our publisher partners, as well as advertisers. We're trying different formats and video ads have been very successful. We've had a number of campaigns and the way we are also approaching this which I think is unique for  Google is really from an integrated and scalable fashion. In the case for example if I may name some clients,  General Motors, for example, Chevrolet Europe, we did what I think is really truly possible with the advantage that  Google has, running the campaigns across multiple countries, delivering large numbers of impressions from YouTube to the content network to the search campaigns. And  Adobe, for example, ran one of the biggest homepage campaigns we've had in the history of YouTube. So all in all, we're doing a lot of experimentation. We're starting to do it globally and we're doing it in a very integrated fashion, by adding the other key assets that we have.   

ERIC SCHMIDT: Let me ass a couple of the things. YouTube is doing extremely well, growing very, very quickly, and doing so internationally as well as in the United States. There has been an issue around standardizing ad formats for advertisers who would like to be able to do industry buys and so forth. So as these new ad formats are being developed, we're also looking to make sure they get standardized into a common buying pool and pattern until the people feel comfortable that they can get real value. The next generation of projects are actually very, very sophisticated ad products, and it looks like they're going to do extremely well. Next question.   

OPERATOR: Mark Mahaney,  Citigroup.

MARK MAHANEY, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: I wanted to ask a question about mobile, particularly for you, Eric, you have a very interesting perspective from two companies on what is happening with mobile Internet usage, particularly off the iPhones. How much of a ramp are you seeing? Is there any way you could quantify it, and is there a way you think about how mobile search as a percentage of overall search could be in two to three years?   

ERIC SCHMIDT: It's very difficult to estimate the percentage in a few years. We have already said in a number of public statements that it is growing significantly faster on a percentage basis than other categories. And as you mentioned, the iPhone is the first of a whole generation products that will be much more search-intensive, and so there is much more likely to be many more search opportunities, and with that search opportunities comes ad monetization. We have done a number of deals for mobile devices already --  KDDI and DoCoMo, for example. DoCoMo just announced [by] (inaudible) in Japan, which are very, very strategic for us. It's difficult to estimate what percentage it could ultimately be long-term. And when I say long-term, I mean perhaps 10 or 20 years, it's reasonable to assume that a majority of searches would be on mobile or personal devices simply because over a long enough period of time, they will take on the tremendous power that's represented in the PC and Mac platform and the wireless networks are getting to the point where they can offer performance similar to the wire line. Jonathan, do you want to add anything?   

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: We have been tracking the data very carefully. We're particularly interested in looking at the iPhone, particularly because the experience on Web browsing is so good, and because of the optimization efforts which we did. We saw a very significant spike in December with the optimization that we did on both the iPhone, and it was well over double I think within about a month in terms of increased usage.   

MARK MAHANEY: And if I could do a quick follow-up on macro trends. To the extent that you see, would see weakness related to a softening consumer, do you think you would see it more on the supply or demand-side; i.e., ad budgets being trimmed, or less consumer commercially oriented searches? Thank you.   

SERGEY BRIN: We have been really studying these questions really in depth, and the we can tell, we just offer such a great ROI for advertisers that they can directly see and measure that advertisers in maybe even difficult markets and what not just have great incentive to get as much of your profitable inventory as they can from  Google and the other different kinds of our ROI advertising that we offer. So we have not been able to detect any such effects from macroeconomic trends. Jonathan?   

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: I think some of you have observed that direct marketing tends to be less affected by economic downturns than brand marketing given its high measurability. I think that has been true in past recessions. I think we will probably see that again. I think one thing we may see is consumers comparison shopping more, and that would certainly create more clicks. It might create modestly lower conversion rates. But we think overall, if people are doing more comparison shopping and looking for bargains, that is probably positive. Clearly if there's less overall commerce in the economy in general, then that could adversely impact overall demand. But we really think that relative to most organizations, we are pretty much tracking the diversity of the overall economy and search-based efforts will fare pretty well.   

OPERATOR: Christa Quarles, Thomas Weisel Partners.   

CHRISTA QUARLES, ANALYST, THOMAS WEISEL PARTNERS: The main question I guess is on the C Block I guess passed the reserve price today. Obviously you cannot mention whether or not you are bidding, but can you just talk about what those Open Access measures ultimately mean for you, and especially with Verizon moving toward Open Access toward the end of 2008? And also, if you could kind of highlight your WiMax stance. And then a total separate quick question, I was just wondering if you could give the impact on checkout to COGS in Q4. Thanks.   

ERIC SCHMIDT: On the first part of the question, we have sort of concluded we cannot answer any questions in that category because of the legislative rules that with respect to how the auction if working. So I'm afraid we're going to only be able to answer the second question. So could you repeat it again?   

CHRISTA QUARLES: Yes, can you make any comment on WiMAX at all?   

ERIC SCHMIDT: As I indicated, I think it's best practice for us just to move to the second question.   

CHRISTA QUARLES: The second question was just on checkout and whether it had a big impact on the COGS in Q4   

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: This is Jonathan, I think it's the same answer that we've given in the previous calls. The impact was immaterial. I think one of the strongest observations that I could give you there is that the organic growth in terms of checkout overtook the promotion efforts this quarter. So I think that is a good sign in terms of the general traction that we are getting. The other things that we are seeing there are that the click-through rates on the badged ads are up as much as 10%. And so I think that is going pretty well.   

SERGEY BRIN: Also in addition to the click-through rates, I think we are starting to get some anecdotal and some actual real studies that demonstrate that the conversions are also up. So, very substantially. And hopefully, we will be able to share more of that with you in the coming weeks. But there's really good evidence now that checkout is able to get consumers through the process more quickly and more reliably.   

OPERATOR: Robert Peck,  Bear Stearns.

ROBERT PECK, ANALYST, BEAR STEARNS: George, as we think about the margin levels this quarter, should analysts be thinking that based on what you're seeing as far as the social networking side, is this more of a new run rate level or do you think the margins were somewhat suppressed by the MySpace relationship in Q4? And then number two, could you also talk to us about timing of a DoubleClick closing and any sort of impact you can see to the numbers for 2008? Thanks.   

ERIC SCHMIDT: Let me do the DoubleClick question. As everybody knows, we had FTC clearance in the United States in December, which is great, and we are working with the European Commission. We're obviously very helpful that they will clear as well and that's probably all we can really say about DoubleClick at this time but we're certainly helpful that it will get cleared and we're working with them pretty closely. George, did you want to answer the first question?   

GEORGE REYES: Bob, could you repeat the question again?   

ROBERT PECK: It's really more -- was the impact from social a onetime impact in 4Q, or should we think about this being more of a normalized EBITDA margin run rate going forward, particularly as other projects continue to [build]?   

GEORGE REYES: Yes, we're still in the learning stages of how we monetize social networking, and this is going to evolve over a period of months. So this is sort of early stage at this point.   

ROBERT PECK: Any idea on a replacement for CFO?   

ERIC SCHMIDT: We have a number of very good candidates and we are very happy to have George -- is still doing the job here and has agreed to continue to do this until we find the right replacement. And it's a hard position to replace, given George's incredible performance.   

OPERATOR: Ben Schachter,  UBS.

BEN SCHACHTER, ANALYST,  UBS: I wonder if I could go into a little more detail on the social networking issue, then specifically maybe talk about differences you're seeing with your non-text based ads versus your text-based ads on social networking? And then another question on tax associated with Google.com revenue. It continues to move higher, it's about 4% now. I was wondering if you could talk about the key drivers for that and if there is a target read internally for where that may go? Finally, on health care, in the past, Sergey, you specifically said that you don't really think about  Google's efforts in health care as really a driver for P&L. And Eric, I know you're speaking at a health care conference later in February. Any update to that? Any change in how you're thinking about health care, how it might be a business opportunity?   

ERIC SCHMIDT: On the health care side, we don't have any products to announce at this time, so why don't we answer the first part of your question, Jonathan and Sergey, social networking and --.   

SERGEY BRIN: I am afraid I am not sure off the bat what the stats were on the image versus text ads. We did have some changes relating to allowing certain kinds of [CPC] ads, which were only allowed to be bid on CPM previously which may have contributed to some cannibalization, or at least for now. But as I said, on the whole, I'm not sure what the data is for image versus text.   

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: I don't have too much to add. We've certainly seen adoption of both the text and the image ads on social. I think the thing we have to figure out there is how to optimize the look and feel of the ads against the inventory that we have, how to slice the inventory up in alternative ways to try to figure out how to make it work. And we have some demos that we've just developed that are going to change the way we're doing some of the targeting. So I think we're basically going to have to look at that and try to figure out how do you find people of particular demographics that are comparable to what you might find in the New York Times or in a particular publication that you might have been previously familiar with.   

SERGEY BRIN: If I may summarize on the whole, we have a huge amount of social networking inventory, including the MySpace relationship, including of course Orkut, our own network, which is very, very successful and probably like 20 others or something like that. I don't know the exact number. But we have an incredible amount of this inventory and in fact it varies quite a bit in how well it monetizes based on a number of factors, some of which we understand, some of which we don't. I don't think we have the killer best way to advertise and monetize the social networks yet. We're running lots of experiments. We had some significant improvements. But as I said, some of the things we worked on in Q4 didn't really pan out and there were some disappointments there. My hope to be able to report more progress in the future, but it's a big opportunity because it's so much inventory.   

OPERATOR: Mary Meeker,  Morgan Stanley.

MARY MEEKER, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: David, I wanted to sort of revisit Imran's question from the beginning of the call. So our worry going into the fourth quarter about  Google was related to monetization levels, or cost per click growth, given what was going on at Financial Services, Retail and Travel. We were not worried about query growth. Now you have reported your numbers, and by our math the cost per click growth was about 16%, so very robust, the highest we've seen in a long time. But by your math, the paid click growth was only about 9% subsequentially in what is typically a seasonally strong quarter. As we were thinking about it just as we read the press release before the call started, we thought issues might relate to the fact that it's tougher to gain share given how high your already is, given there might be some share loss, issues about a recession, something geographic or much slower market growth. And George mentioned the changes in the algorithm impacted reduced accidental clicks. So our question, and it may be for George, is 9% sequential growth the kind of growth to potentially think about in the December quarter, or did the algorithm have a really material effect on the sequential query growth, or was it something else?   

ERIC SCHMIDT: We have to be very careful here not to project any guide here with all of the math. So Sergey, do you to want to try to describe what you thought the components of all this were?   

SERGEY BRIN: I should mention, we were reluctant to even start reporting that particular measure, and it's because unfortunately there's just a lot of complexity in our business. And as we tried to get the best possible, most useful ads to our end-users and hence get the most promising customers to our advertisers, we trade off a lot of things. So one example is the one that George mentioned, the one that you just talked about, for example getting rid of the clickable backgrounds. But there are also factors like might we might want to reduce the number of low cost clicks or perhaps low likelihood to convert clicks in favor of a smaller number of higher quality clicks. There are many, many trade-offs that we make. So I would hesitate in inferring too much from just that one metric alone.   

MARY MEEKER: Was the change or some of the unusual things that happened that related to what you just mentioned and what George mentioned, were they global and did they take place through most of the quarter? Were they U.S.-based? And then, I'm done.   

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: I'm not sure to what degree I can separate out the international component. It certainly is true that prices rise as advertisers get higher conversion rates, particularly over the holidays, and how [Varian] posted a blog that sort of takes you through some of that. The other thing which I think you said which I'm pretty clear is not the case, we're generally doing very well from a market share perspective domestically and internationally. So the trend there is almost uniformly a gain in market share.   

MARY MEEKER: I guess the one last observation is, given that the change has probably had impact throughout most of the quarter, and for perhaps global, that potential slowdown could be a blip.   

ERIC SCHMIDT: Again, you're using the term potential slowdown, which is not a term we have used on this call. So again, that's your view, not necessarily ours.   

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: Mary, the click growth in the quarter beat our internal forecast.   

MARY MEEKER: It was certainly strong.   

ERIC SCHMIDT: Why don't we move on, thank you very much.   

OPERATOR: Sandeep Aggarwal, Oppenheimer.   

SANDEEP AGGARWAL, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER: Two questions. One is that, can you talk about how you are viewing the partnerships you have with some of the big AdSense partners? And basically it was clear that you did see some impact in the (inaudible) traffic (inaudible) because of the minimum guarantees. I just wanted to know how would you [hedge] that kind of a situation going forward? And secondly, George mentioned about investments which may drive down the margins. I just wanted to hear from you some sense of where these investments will be made. Will this be more of enhancing your existing products and infrastructure, or some new initiatives? Thank you.   

OMID KORDESTANI: I think in relation to partnerships we enter all of these will a view to having very successful relationships (inaudible) before going to the partner as well as ourselves. We would like to have very profitable deals. I think in certain areas as we've been talking about in social networking, we make bigger bets to be able to understand that space. We think that's an important category and we have our own products in that space and we want to understand the monetization, which is I think a more challenging area for us to figure out. But, we are confident given the innovation model that we have and the roadmap that we have that we will be able to perform better there. So our goal is in all of these deals is to make the proper levels of investment, proper levels of guarantees and over time in areas that are newer to us to understand them better and have better products.   

LARRY PAGE: I was just going to add, we've had -- I think in many of these areas with great partners, we've had very significant improvements in monetization and social networking in different areas. And like Sergey mentioned, I think there's large opportunities still there. There's tremendous amounts of inventory and the monetization levels are relatively low compared to other things. And we have seen the ability to make significant gains, so we're very optimistic about those areas.   

SANDEEP AGGARWAL: What about the investments, future investments?   

ERIC SCHMIDT: You might want to repeat your question, because I'm not sure I agreed with the premise of your question.   

SANDEEP AGGARWAL: Just wanted to hear basically in terms of if you can provide some color in terms of future investments, are they going to be more focused in terms of the enhancements to the existing product portfolio and improving the infrastructure versus some of the new initiatives?   

ERIC SCHMIDT: The general answer is that we invest wherever we see big opportunities and our primary focus on investments is in fact in our core business. And you see the success we had in 2007 and in Q4, the vast majority of that was actually not in all of the things that generates all the exciting new announcements that we're happy to talk about, but in investments in core search and core advertising globally which I am incredibly proud of. George, did you want to add any thing on this?   

GEORGE REYES: Yes. In terms of your comments around margins going forward, as you know we don't give guidance. We're going to continue to hire the talented people that we always have, we're going to continue our investments in CapEx, and we're going to be very careful around how we proceed with making investments.   

OPERATOR: Brian Pitz, Banc of America.   

BRIAN PITZ, ANALYST, BANC OF AMERICA: Can you provide some additional color on why we observe more of a deceleration in  Google AdWords versus AdSense? And maybe this is a point of clarification, but I think we heard you say that quality changes were made to AdSense, and in addition our assumption is that the social networking revenue also falls in the AdSense bucket. And then just a quick second question to Larry on licensing revenue. Should we assume most of the increase is due to the Postini acquisition?   

ERIC SCHMIDT: Jonathan, that's AdSense and --.   

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: I think we have pretty much answered that with the discussion that we had earlier on the mix issues. I'm not sure I can actually offer you anymore color. We said that the Google.com traffic was stronger than our own internal expectations. We also, if you look back at Q3, which I think we talked about on the call then, Q3 was a very, very good quarter. So if you're looking at the sequential growth rate, you're comparing it to a quarter in which we did disproportionately well relative to what we've done in the past. But I'm not sure how much more color I can really give you there.   

LARRY PAGE: Perhaps it is worth mentioning, I do believe that we include the social networking revenue within the AdSense for content bulkhead, which is within AdSense as a whole. And perhaps it's worth all (inaudible) [notes] on the side, it's not necessarily a financial metric, but we have had great partnerships with these social networks now. We have now launched Open Social and we have now at least 20 partners on that. We have applications being developed. We have networks we are participating. So we're really excited about all the progress and innovation there. And even though Q4 for us was a little bit of a disappointment in terms of the kinds of improvements in monetization we were able to generate, Q3 was fine for us in that light, as was Q2 and we're optimistic about the future.   

ERIC SCHMIDT: And remember that the  Google model is one of experimentation. We keep trying and we keep trying new ideas until we define the ones that really generate phenomenal ROI, and then not only do we go with them, but they grow very quickly.   

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: I did not want to miss your second question, it was about enterprise growth and Postini, and what specifically were you looking for?   

BRIAN PITZ: Should we assume that most of the growth in licensing was due to the Postini acquisition in the quarter?   

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: I think we've had a lot of success to date with small businesses. We added a lot of ISPs which tend to drive a lot of the traffic. We also pushed a lot of the education efforts which I think had a pretty significant component. Beyond that, it's hard to --.   

ERIC SCHMIDT: The answer to your question is yes.   

OPERATOR: Marianne Wolk, Susquehanna.   

MARIANNE WOLK, ANALYST, SUSQUEHANNA: I want to focus back on the economy. Can I confirm that when you called the weakness in the UK related to Travel and Finance seasonal, that you have already seen the normal seasonal rebound here in January? And then as a follow-up, the few retailers we actually spoke to in Q4 for said that they increased their spending on online advertising as a way to bolster the slower off-line sales. Have you noticed any countercyclicality in the business? Could a weaker economy actually accelerate the shift in ad dollars online?   

ERIC SCHMIDT: Again, you have a thesis here which we don't necessarily agree with, and in any case we're not going to talk about the current quarter. We're talking about the quarter that ended in December. I am happy to say that we have not yet seen any negative impact from the rumors of future recessions. We'll see what happens.   

LARRY PAGE: If I may add, I do think that, certainly like you have seen from several of your contacts, it makes a lot of sense for advertisers if they want to be careful about their spending, they want to make sure they're getting good a good ROI to use the exact kind of advertising that we're offering. I think that might makes a lot of sense and I think lots of advertisers recognize that.   

OPERATOR: Justin Post,  Merrill Lynch.

JUSTIN POST, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: Most of my questions have been asked, but one about your future. When you think about revenue sources beyond search, what do you think your biggest opportunity is among software as a service, video or display? Do you prioritize those? And do you think any of them could be material within the next two years?   

LARRY PAGE: I think it's hard to prioritize the exact ones. I think we're making tremendous strides in apps as we talked about. There's tremendous -- those are of tremendous importance to people and we are also getting revenue from multiple sources there from advertising and from people paying for the service itself. And we have obviously seen tremendous growth in YouTube, which we already mentioned, which is great. I think we'll be -- there's going to be significant amounts of advertising there also. So I'm pretty optimistic about all of the new areas we're pursuing and the opportunities there we'll take. You tend to underestimate the long-term and overestimate the short term for any new thing, and I think you want to be careful about that. But I'm very optimistic long-term.   

ERIC SCHMIDT: There's reasons to be optimistic about all of the categories that you described. The display business is literally right in front of us and the DoubleClick acquisition is a central part of that strategy. So we will see. But of course, we have a sales force that's perfectly capable of selling those. Customers are purchasing those already and it's a market that would benefit from the kind of technology that  Google could bring to market.   

In the case of YouTube, you have a huge forward opportunity just because of the scale of the audience, globalization and so forth. So to the degree that we can develop the ad formats that we describe, it again should become very significant. Exactly when is very difficult to predict.   

OPERATOR: Heath Terry,  Credit Suisse.

HEATH TERRY, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: I was wondering if first you could update us on the local business and exactly where you are in continuing to try and attract advertisers to monetize the tremendous traffic that you have built within  Google Maps, particularly what kind of progress that you have seen out of the local business referral model.   

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: I guess the biggest thing that happened this last quarter was local Plus Box, which we launched I think in late November. Basically, that was an improvement to the local ads on Google.com. I think it's only available for the top ads, but basically what happens is we show a Plus Box for the local ads, and it expands and basically gives you the advertiser's address, the phone number, a map. And this is the kind of thing that you will see us moving more towards as we try to make our efforts there and our ads more consistent with what's going on with universal search, convey as much information as we possibly can in the ad related to what happens if you click through to it and try to figure out how to capture the local opportunity.   

HEATH TERRY: And on the local business referral program?   

OMID KORDESTANI: We're not breaking of those components out now. We're right now really focused on getting the right content. As Jonathan mentioned, a lot of the success of these areas will depend on having the most comprehensive listings and the right formats. And we are experimenting with all that, building [great] relationships and it's still kind of early for us to break it out and talk about that revenue performance.   

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: The one other thing that you could look at is, I also believe that we pretty much completely revamped the regional targeting system and how that works for the advertisers. And I would expect that there will be significant improvement from that as well.   

OPERATOR: Jeff Lindsay, Sanford Bernstein.   

JEFF LINDSAY, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: We would like to ask two things. First of all, could you give us any breakdown of the 889 new staff geographically, and/or by function? And then second, it looks like the TAC rate increased in the fourth quarter to 88%. Why did the TAC rate go up, what were the drivers behind this, and were they one-off factors or were they factors that you expect would continue? Thank you.   

ERIC SCHMIDT: On the hiring question, the first part of your question, you will remember that we hired a little ahead of ourselves maybe six months ago, so we've returned to our normal hiring process. More international over time, a balance maybe 50/50 or close to it technical and nontechnical. We are a very difficult place to get a job at, and so we continue to look to the very, very top talent at each and every position and we do that worldwide and it's working very well. I don't think any of that's going to change. I think that model for hiring and building your organization has worked for us for many years and I think it will continue.   

GEORGE REYES: Our TAC rate is not 88%. We're looking at TAC as if it were a percentage of advertising revenue, which is roughly 30%. So as we said, primarily this is all related to our AdSense partner cites, and that is -- which is where we are required to make the guaranteed payments and social networking is also something that is coming online pretty strongly.   

ERIC SCHMIDT: So with that, I want to thank everybody. Thank you Christa, thank the operator and thank all of you for spending so much time once again on your afternoon and evening covering  Google and we look forward to talking to you in our next quarterly earnings call. Thank you very much.   

OPERATOR: This concludes today's conference. We thank you for your participation. You may now disconnect.   

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.   

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.   

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]   

   CO
goog : Google Inc.
   IN
i8395464 : Internet Search Engines | iint : Internet/Online Services
   NS
c11 : Plans/Strategy | c15 : Performance | ntra : Transcript | c151 : Earnings | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | uk : United Kingdom | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe
   PUB
Voxant, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020080207e41v003h1
  


 HD
 Q3  2007 Google Earnings Conference Call - Final   
   WC
10,000 words
   PD
18 October 2007
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.     

   LP
OPERATOR: Good day and welcome everyone to the  Google Inc. conference call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time I would like to turn the call over to Ms. [Christa Bethinger]. Please go ahead.   

CHRISTA BETHINGER, IR,  GOOGLE INC.: Good afternoon everyone and welcome to today's third quarter 2007 earnings conference call. With me today are Eric Schmidt, Chief Executive Officer; George Reyes, Chief Financial Officer; Larry Page, Founder and President of Products; Sergey Brin, Founder and President of Technology; Jonathan Rosenberg, Senior Vice President of Product Management; and Omid Kordestani, Senior Vice President of Global Sales and Operations. Eric, George, Larry and Sergey will provide some thoughts on the quarter, and then Jonathan and Omid will join us for Q&A.   

   TD
This call is being webcast from our Investor Relations website. And our press release issued a few minutes ago is now also posted on our website, as well as the slides that accompany today's prepared remarks. Please note that a replay of this call will be available on our Investor Relations website in just a few hours.   

Now let me quickly cover the Safe Harbor statement. Some of the statements we make today may be considered forward-looking, including statements regarding our investments, seasonality, traffic, acquisition costs, increase in the cost of sales, plans to continue to invest in personalization, international growth, growth in headcount, and our expected level of capital expenditures.   

These statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially. Please note that these forward-looking statements reflect our opinions only as of the date of this presentation, and we undertake no obligation to revise or publicly release the results of any revision to these forward-looking statements in light of new information or future events.   

Please refer to our SEC filings, including our quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2007, as well as our earnings release posted a few minutes ago for a more detailed description of the risk factors that may affect our results.   

Copies of these documents can be obtained from the SEC or by visiting the Investor Relations section of our website. Also please note that certain financial measures we will use on this call, such as EPS, net income, operating margin and operating income, are expressed on a non-GAAP basis, and have been adjusted to exclude charges relating to stock-based compensation. We have also adjusted our net cash provided by operating activities to remove capital expenditures which we refer to as free cash flow. We report our GAAP results, as well as provide a GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliation, in our earnings press release.   

With that, it is my pleasure to turn the call over to Eric.   

ERIC SCHMIDT, CEO,  GOOGLE INC.: And thank you all again for joining us. We're very pleased with such strong results in what is seasonally one of our weaker quarter. When we look at it, revenue growth of course very healthy, both in Google.com and also in our AdSense businesses. And the seasonal weakness in traffic was milder than we expected on Google.com, which was a very pleasant surprise from our perspective.   

It is obvious to us that the search quality investments that we're making are paying off, particularly internationally, as we do better and better in almost every country. Along with that of course we're working on expanding our breadth of ads offering with all sorts of new types of ads, Gadget ads, video ads, others coming. And each of these initiatives gives advertisers new and interesting ways to build relationships with their customers. So by building these deeper ad solutions we really can deliver more value, especially in markets and industries where they have not really had these kinds of tools before. These are hardly measurable and ROI-driven campaigns. And Sergey is going to talk a little bit more about this in terms of the steps we're taking in ads.   

Looking at it as search, ads and apps, on the apps side we are now seeing a massive transition to Web-based cloud computing at a consumer and enterprise level. We have talked about this for a while, and we now see not only the progress, but also the future products, both from  Google and from the other folks in the industry to make this really happen. In our case of course we launched the presentation product, as well as closing Postini, which is central to our enterprise push.   

We are really on the cusp of a world where everyone can create, share, collaborate and find their content in the cloud anytime and anywhere. Before I turn it over to George for all I think good news, let me say something about George. George announced his retirement. I have had the privilege of working with him for almost 20 years. I'm going to embarrass him now. And everything that I can think of financially that has happened to  Google has really had George in the middle, whether it is going public, building the infrastructure of a multibillion dollar corporation, our large cash position, secondaries, the financing, very, very good Investor Relations, the openness that we are now seeking, the financial and discipline that exists in the Company. And also amazingly our ability to deal with Section 404 and Sarbanes-Oxley, all driven not just by George, but by people who brought -- that he brought into the Company. With that, George, and hopefully an even better introduction to come. Go ahead, George.   

GEORGE REYES, CFO,  GOOGLE INC.: Good afternoon everyone. We had a very strong quarter across the Board with continued impressive growth in our business. Gross revenue increased 57% over last year to $4.2 billion. our Google.com performance was strong at $2.7 billion, representing year-over-year revenue growth of 68%, and a 10% increase over last quarter.   

As was the case in Q2, Google.com traffic was stronger than expected, reflecting a milder seasonal affect than we have experienced historically. Consistent with past summers we also saw strong growth in monetization, supported in part by a healthy pipeline of ads quality improvement.   

We were particularly pleased with our AdSense performance, which grew 8% over the second quarter, and 40% over last year to $1.5 billion. Both the AdSense for content and AdSense for search businesses were strong, as we experienced continued increases in traffic and improved our ability to monetize our newer partner relationships.   

Let's now take a look at aggregate paid clicks growth. Aggregate paid clicks include clicks related to ads served on  Google property, as well as ads served on our partner sites. Aggregate paid clicks grew approximately 45% over Q3 of last year, and increased approximately 5% over Q2.   

Let me now discuss our international performance. International revenue grew to just over $2 billion or 48% of revenue. The UK reported revenues of $661 million and 10% sequential growth, led by the strength in the finance vertical. The region consisting of Belgium, the Netherlands and Luxembourg also experienced notable growth in Q3. The travel vertical was a contributor of growth across France, Italy, Spain, and Portugal and helped drive monetization growth. And in Asia and Latin America, where we are still building our presence and investing heavily, we continued to experience strong growth rates in countries such as Brazil, China and Korea.   

Let's now turn to operating expenses. Traffic acquisition costs were $1.2 billion and 29% of total advertising revenue, down from 30% in Q2. AdSense TAC was $1.1 billion, while TAC related to distribution partners and others who direct traffic to our website totaled $105 million in the quarter. As we have discussed previously, as we grow our AdSense partner network and embark upon new initiatives, we may see pressure on TAC rates going forward.   

Turning to other costs of revenue, other costs of revenue increased $29 million over the prior quarter, primarily as a result of increases in costs related to our data centers, including depreciation, equipment, operations, content acquisition costs, data licensing fees, and amortization. We anticipate that our cost of sales will continue to increase going forward.   

Let's now turn to operating expenses. Operating expenses in Q3, other than cost of revenue, included approximately $200 million stock-based compensation, and totaled $1.3 billion. Expenses related to payroll and facilities increased $34 million to $659 million. During the quarter we added 2,130 employees, the majority in engineering and sales and marketing.   

At the end of the quarter we had a full-time employee base of 15,916. Consistent with previous years, a large portion of our starts in the third quarter were related to university hires, approximately 1,000 employees that had accepted offers earlier in the year, but started in Q3 after the end of the academic year. Included also are approximately 300 employees from the Postini acquisition, which closed in September. As we have previously discussed, we are continuing to take a careful look at how we can more efficiently allocate resources across functions and globally.   

Let's now turn to non-GAAP operating profit, which excludes stock-based compensation. This was $1.5 billion, with non-GAAP operating margins of 36%, up from 35% in Q2. As we have stated previously, margins may decline as we continue to make investments in our business.   

Now turning to cash, operating cash flow was $1.6 billion, and CapEx for the quarter declined to $553 million. A majority of our CapEx was again related to IT infrastructure investments, including data center, construction, production of servers, and networking equipment. We intend to make similar investments going forward as we continue to build a global infrastructure and the resources necessary to serve and improve our product for our users and our advertisers.   

And lastly, free cash flow, a non-GAAP measure, which we define as cash flow from operations less CapEx, increased to $1.1 billion.   

And I will turn it over to Larry for more comments on the quarter.   

LARRY PAGE, FOUNDER AND PRESIDENT OF PRODUCTS,  GOOGLE INC.: I'm really excited to talk to you a little bit about search and our improving search quality this quarter. We had a lot of improvements we made to search quality for users in markets outside of North America. I'm very excited about those. It is a big part of our traffic. And we launched several dozen search quality improvements specific to particular international markets. And we are especially happy with the results that we had in Russia, Thailand, Japan and Arabic speaking markets.   

Now in mobile search our search traffic there increased both domestically and internationally, and the mobile apps traffic is growing well, particularly in Maps. And YouTube have also launched a public site stream select YouTube content mobile devices, of course supporting the iPhone addition which we launched last quarter. Mobile ads are really doing well, especially in Japan where we had strong revenue growth. We also launched mobile ads in Korea.   

Let me tell you a little bit about our user experience worldwide, especially about personalization and the new features. iGoogle, which has just been growing tremendously, expanded up to 43 domains now. We're really excited about that. We have made it easier for users to set up their own page on iGoogle, and that increased retention and usage. And I love looking at some of these touches with the weather, even though in California it isn't such a issue for us, it is still good to know what is happening. And I can very easily get that on my homepage now. The number of available gadgets are increasing significantly and the developer ecosystem there is really growing.   

Now in Book Search we really increased funding of relevant book results lots this quarter. And we think that had a significant effect on improving quality. And our Book Search Index is also huge now. It is over one million books. You think about China's stock goes up on your desk, it would take quite a bit of space. We also added several new partners there, with a total of 27 partners now involved in that product. And we introduced a number of new features.   

Now let me switch gears and talk to you a little bit about Maps and Earth, our geographic products. In Maps we really opened up the Map Locate Guide, and that makes Maps a development platform. And it makes it easy for people to put their own functionality into Maps. So for example, we have a -- you can get real estate listings just when you're looking at Maps, or real-time updates on gas prices, or ski and snow reports right on your  Google Maps provided by third parties.   

In Streets View, which is a feature that lets you see a view of a particular street or house or business, we added five cities in Q3 and six more just in the last week. So we're very excited about that. There is a total of now 15 major cities where you can see street level views of almost anywhere in those cities.   

In Earth, we last -- last week we actually launched a YouTube video layer on Earth. You can go to different areas and see video users have posted about that area. And I looked at a few from Brazil. They are very interesting. And companies like the Hidden Bay Lodge in Ontario posted a fishing video about going fishing there. So we're very excited about that too. I will turn in over to Sergey now to talk to us about progress in apps.   

SERGEY BRIN, FOUNDER AND PRESIDENT OF TECHNOLOGY,  GOOGLE INC.: I am really excited to tell you today what we have done over the past quarter in ads and apps. As you all know for advertising our real philosophy is to create a win-win between advertisers and customers by presenting users with really relevant information which is interesting to them, but it is likely to cause a transaction to commence. We're really helping out both.   

But it is also important that it is not just what we say, but we can actually prove it. And so measurements of return on investment and the ability to optimize the investment is really important for advertisers.   

We have a lot of tools now available for advertisers to do that, but I want to highlight a couple new ones and a couple of updates for this quarter. In beta testing right now we have the Convergence Optimizer. And this lets advertisers adopt an ROI-driven financial model even more easily than just going straight with cost per click type bidding. What basically clients specify -- advertisers specify is how much they want to pay for a customer. And then we automatically optimize for them in each auction on how much they on to be bidding in order to accomplish that goal.   

We have also launched a new release of our Website Optimizer, and this is where advertisers can run and create these A/B kind of split experiments. They can change their website layouts. They can rearrange their content. And this is very important, because there is tremendous variance, even once you get a user on your website to know how likely are they to really understand what they are seeing? How likely -- how easy is it for them to use? And ultimately what percentage of those users do actually perform a transaction? And this is a really great way to optimize that, to make a really big difference in the business.   

Next I want to talk about some new ads formats that I'm quite excited about. And this does not mean that really flashy in your face stuff. For example, we have launched our Gadget ads, and this is a global data that we are running now. And for Gadget ads you can actually put functionality into the advertisements, so it is more than just something to look at and click, but something you can really contract with.   

We have a Nissan Gadget ad running right now that lets you -- you punch in your ZIP code, you get local traffic. It is fun for users. It helps Nissan build brands. We also have Gadgets that are actually really functional to what the company does. For example, if you're trying to book a flight or whatnot, you can punch where you're flying from and to directly into the ad. Anyway, we really are excited about these.   

Of course you have probably heard about our in video ads, as well as the AdSense video units. So basically instead of trying to do something, say a pre-rollout for video, where you would have to watch a commercial before watching your video, that would really not make sense, especially in the kinds of several minutes type videos we typically show on properties such as YouTube. It would be very distracting.   

Instead, we have a really nice ad that shows up in the bottom 20% of the video that just overlays for a few seconds after the video starts playing. And in fact, the initial user response rates -- well, the user responses and feedback have been positive. And we have had better click through rates than what we anticipated. I am very optimistic about this ad format. And this is the kind of thing that we have to do when we develop new ad programs. You have to experiment with different kinds of things until you can actually find formats that really work for users and for advertisers.   

The AdSense video units of course -- or the YouTube videos can be indebted on sites in the AdSense network. And this certainly provides more distribution for the videos. They are -- allow us to have contextually targeted ads in the video player. And this creates this three-way revenue share, which is really a win-win-win between the publisher, the video's producer, and  Google.

I also wanted, just while I am on the subject to video ads, just mention TV ads, which we of course have been running now for awhile. We have really been getting a lot of interest and bookings from advertisers. And the remarkable thing about television, it is surprising, but it is in fact of the off-line advertising, it is the one that is the closest to Internet level accountability. And we feel we can bring much greater ROI type accountability to television advertising, much as we have done online.   

Let me take a moment to talk about apps and what we have been doing there. We have been growing. We have been seeing a lot of adoption of certain apps for YourDomain, apps for YourUniversity. The University of Phoenix, which is up to about 250,000 accounts now -- students, faculty, employees and so forth.   

Northwestern is now offering it to all students. That is on the educational front. For companies we have a partnership now with  Cap Gemini, which integrates  Google Apps into their suite of offerings. And then  Cap Gemini provides the systems integration support. And we're really excited about working with third-parties like this, because there are just so many great companies in the enterprise space that really know how to work with the customers, and can plug our technologies in where it makes the most sense.   

We also closed the Postini acquisition. And not only did we close it, but we already have deployed some of the Postini functionality on  Google Apps for your domain, and this was just an automatic upgrade for our apps customers.   

Now in the apps suite, we now have rounded it out a bit. For example, we launched presentations. So you can create a presentation. You can import one, edit them and share them. And what this basically means now, for my usage, whenever I get e-mails or need to work with somebody on something, I don't really have to leave the Web browser. And for presentations it is great, because you want to collaborate on a presentation. If there are several of you presenting, you want to get ready ahead of time.   

You can also, as you are even watching a presentation you can make comments on it and whatnot. You can even just go to URL of the presentation as you're being presented to, and page through it forward or backward without having to have received a large attachment or have a big printout or something like that. It is really convenient, and I think has the potential to change how people really work together.   

Now these apps support a total of 27 languages now. We added six more this quarter. So it is a very international product, and we're getting adoption worldwide.   

An important piece that we are working on has to do with off-line functionality, because of course you don't want to just have access to these things when you're on (inaudible). You want it in an airplane. You want it somewhere where you don't have Internet or your Internet connection goes down or it is flaky. And the  Google Gears was launched in Q2 to address that. Our reader, as you all know, is our first Geared application, as we call it. And in fact it is very nice. I encourage all of you to try this product. It is very fast. It obviously downloads all the items, so they are prefetched. They show up quickly. But you can expect more and more of  Google's applications to show up in Geared versions, so that you can work untethered.   

Anyhow I'm very excited about the progress we have made on both front. Thanks for your time. And now back to Eric.   

ERIC SCHMIDT: And looking back at the quarter, it is obvious to us that our model continues to work very well. That the systematic approach that we have to innovation and the way in which the Company is executing speaks for itself. The strategy of search, ads and apps seems to resonate perfectly with this worldwide transition, if you will, to the use of the Internet on many, many different devices. So all very exciting from a  Google perspective. And again thank you for listening so long to us.   

Why don't we go ahead and get your questions and see what people think.   

CHRISTA BETHINGER: Operator, we would like to go ahead and poll for questions.   

OPERATOR: (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS). Imran Khan,  JP Morgan.

IMRAN KHAN, ANALYST, JP MORGAN: I have two questions. Number one, if I look at your network revenue,  Google Network Website revenue, that improved significantly in Q2 after remaining roughly flat in Q2. I was trying to better understand what is driving that growth.   

And secondly, you have been working with MySpace for a while. And do you have a better sense what you have learned and how monetizable this social networking sites that are out there? And as these social networking sites engagements are growing so quickly, are you concerned that that could be a point of entry on the Web?   

ERIC SCHMIDT: When we look at the network revenue, a lot of the benefit we think is simply coming from greater traffic to our partners, and then also strong monetization gains into our ad network support. Omid, can you give us some color on how the partners view this?   

OMID KORDESTANI, SVP OF GLOBAL SALES AND OPERATIONS,  GOOGLE INC.: Sure. We look at basically about seasonality of the partners and their distribution strategy. Some of our partners benefited last quarter from having greater distribution of their services through their own efforts of syndicating their search and advertising or using our services. And we have been ramping up partnerships in the UGC space, and we have seemed nice growth in that space from partners like MySpace. I will let Sergey maybe add to the monetization angle here.   

SERGEY BRIN: Yes, this is Sergey. We have been very pleased with our partnership with MySpace. We have been pleased with the advertising performance. It has been -- there has been a lot of work in innovation actually. I know you might not see it from the user interface point of view that you see, but we are developing really new technologies.   

And I think these social networks are going to require a different kind of targeting technologies, different concepts of advertising. We have already made big strides. It is obviously a challenge because there's so much inventory, people can be distracted by very many different things. And it is very personal. There are a lot of things that make it hard. But our technology, our targeting, all those things are actually coming along very well.   

We're really -- we view it as a great opportunity. It is just so much more inventory that if done correctly can create that kind of win-win I was talking about between advertisers and users.   

OPERATOR: Anthony Noto,  Goldman Sachs.

ANTHONY NOTO, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: You talked in the call about iGoogle and the positive feedback you've gotten from user metrics. And I was wondering if you will comment a little bit about improving that product even further? It is a great application to allow me to efficiently use  Google. I don't have to enter in searches for all the information that I want to have on a daily basis.   

And there is two things I think that could make it a lot better, and I won't -- and the real root of my question is, is there a technology limitation to doing the following two things or in legal limitation?   

The first is pulling other applications that are popular on the Internet, specifically those that have been written to Facebook and others. And the second, you have often talked about advertising being a form of content. And in many of the verticals that I have on iGoogle my tack, such as movies, would really benefit from display advertising as an additional form of information. So is there a technology and/or legal or other considerations that have limited you putting display ads on the page or pulling in other applications?   

ERIC SCHMIDT: This is Eric. Thanks very much for your good product suggestions. There are some legal limits as to what we can do. We would obviously have to get permission of the partner and content and so forth and so on. There is no intrinsic reason why the vision that you painted can't occur. In fact, part of our developer strategy is to get people to build what are called iGoogle Gadgets. And we encourage the site that you name and others to make them available. We need to work with them. We obviously can't do it without their permission.   

Jonathan, do you want to talk a little bit about the display ads?   

JONATHAN ROSENBERG, SVP OF PRODUCT MANAGEMENT,  GOOGLE INC.: In particular with respect to Gadgets, we're certainly going to be offering a lot more functionality through the gadgets. The current focus with them really is the user experience. We have done some things with themes which we think have been a pretty big success.   

But really what we are trying to do is figure out how to integrate much of what we're doing with iGoogle, and also the concept of these Gadget ads, which Sergey mentioned. And what is so powerful there is that the Gadget ads just don't serve up your simple brand impression. What they do is they get people to engage with the brand. And then we can actually empirically measure the level of engagement, which is much more powerful than the things people have traditionally done with display.   

One of the things that I would suggest you do, Sergey mentioned one of the Gadget ads, the Nissan ad. I think if you type into  Google either Honda Gadget ad campaign, or the Six Flags Gadget ad campaign, you will get some examples of some campaigns that have leveraged this technology to really deliver.   

OPERATOR: Ben Schachter,  UBS.

BEN SCHACHTER, ANALYST,  UBS: If I'm reading the TAC rates right, it looks like the partner TAC went down pretty meaningfully, and then the TAC associated with Google.com went up as a percentage of revenue. I am wondering if you could comment on those trends.   

And then also you mentioned in the prepared comments about the level of accountability on TV ads. At a high level can you talk about the learning that you're getting from targeting ads on the search side, how those will work with both video and display and possibly offer an add-on?   

ERIC SCHMIDT: Jonathan, do you want to talk about TV ads first?   

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: Sure. I think TV ads have actually really been underappreciated for the reason that you mentioned in terms of our off-line efforts. This is really one of the few places where you can bring the same type of Internet level accountability to off-line advertising. So with search advertising, obviously our customers see real-time how their ads performed. The same thing is really true with the feedback mechanism that we get with the set-top boxes. We're bringing the same level of granularity to the off-line TV format.   

The trials that we have right now are with  EchoStar and Astound Cable. And what we're able to do there is we're able to show the advertisers when their spot is playing, and look at the viewing levels of users actually during the course of the spot. So we're very excited about how that is playing out. And we think it bodes very, very well for our progress in TV.   

ERIC SCHMIDT: Now we will talk about TAC rates. George, you want to start that?   

GEORGE REYES: Yes. So our AdSense TAC went down slightly, but on the other hand Google.com TAC went up, and primarily driven by the partner mix.   

OPERATOR: Robert Peck,  Bear Stearns.

ROBERT PECK, ANALYST, BEAR STEARNS: Eric, I had a question on future use of capital here as I think of any large expenditures going forward. First of all I was wondering if maybe you could comment on  Google's desire to maybe put a large investment in Facebook or a large social network?   

And then I was wondering if maybe Larry can talk about the importance of 700 megahertz going forward? It doesn't look like Kevin Martin will probably codify what  Google wants for the 700 megahertz. So does it come to a point where  Google has sort of no choice, to not only put a token bid in, but to also sort of bid to win, whether it be with a consortium or whatnot?   

Eric Schmidt. On the question about specific investment, as you know, I can't really comment on any specific investments. I want to assure you all that the cash is not burning a hole in our pockets. We don't feel some great need to spend it right now for any particular reason. We would do an investment that is capital if we thought it was incredibly strategic. Many of the partners we have been able to work with we have not needed to do such an investment. They are happy partnering with us simply because of our technology and our ability to monetize. Larry, do want to comment about 700 megahertz?   

LARRY PAGE: Sure. I guess I think we have been actually quite happy with the openness provisions that have been put into those 700 megahertz options. So I guess I disagree with your assertion there. I think we have many, many different options available to us as a company in terms of spectrum and connectivity for people and wireless and so forth. So I don't think we feel like there is any desperate need for us to have to bid to win or anything like that. And again the money is not burning a hole in our pocket.   

OPERATOR: Christa Quarles, Thomas Weisel.   

CHRISTA QUARLES, ANALYST, THOMAS WEISEL: The first question is just around in the mobile side we're starting to see sort of a convergence among hardware, software and services, you know a la Nokia's bid for Navtec. I was just wondering do you feel comfortable with your current position on just having applications and the ubiquity that you can achieve in the distribution of those applications?   

And then secondly, I was just wondering if you could give us an update on when you think DoubleClick might get some clarification on when that might close? I guess the EU decision begins next week, but just an update there would be great.   

ERIC SCHMIDT: On the DoubleClick side we are following all of the appropriate steps that are needed to get worldwide approval. And we're certainly optimistic. It would be, I think, premature for me to suggest any particular timing. I could tell you we have a pretty close working relationship with all the people, who I think in my view, responsibly are checking on does this make sense and so forth. But we believe it will ultimately result in a very good outcome for us.   

On the mobile side we have talked at some length about our mobile application strategy. We're very happy with it. Mobile applications, there is some evidence that we're becoming the leading mobile applications provider, at least in certain segments. And the mobile story is a very strong one for  Google. It is also a great one for the world. You see over and over again one company after another announcing a new interesting mobile platform. We want to make sure that  Google and its technology is a part of each and every one of those platforms.   

OPERATOR: Mark Mahaney, Citi Investment Research.   

MARK MAHANEY, ANALYST, CITI INVESTMENT RESEARCH: First, congratulations George for a job extremely well done. Just to keep going on mobile, what we are trying to figure out is how much of the future investment requirements success for  Google in mobile could entail?   

And the set up is, you obviously achieved a leading position as a PC search service without the need to develop a  Google PC or a PC operating system or an Internet access service with all the infrastructure requirements that that would entail. Is there any reason that your success in the mobile Internet world would require any similar type developments, a  Google phone, a mobile phone operating system, or a wireless access infrastructure with all of the requirements that that would entail?   

ERIC SCHMIDT: I don't think again there is a requirement to do any things like that. I think  Google -- obviously we have been a lot since we entered the search business. And the opportunities that are available to us are different. And there are opportunities for us available in those kind of spaces. And we would also love to get even greater numbers of people and wider access to our applications that we provide.   

So I think it is more of an opportunity for us than a cost. We have tremendous usage of our current mobile applications and we have deals with very, very many different wireless carriers and so on, and many other types of carriers, and I think those things will all continue.   

OPERATOR: Doug Anmuth,  Lehman Brothers.

DOUG ANMUTH, ANALYST, LEHMAN BROTHERS: It looks like you added more than 2,100 net headcount adds in the quarter, which is significantly more than you added in Q2, despite being more focused on headcount. But even ex Postini it looks like it is more than 1,800. Can you give us some color on the timing of your hires during 3Q, and then also how we should think about this in relation to margins going forward?   

ERIC SCHMIDT: Obviously I can't talk about margins going forward. What we said last quarter, as you know, is that this is an area where we needed to spend some more time and focus more on what is the appropriate rate. And the good news we have done that. The numbers that you're seeing are essentially an overhang. And they are an overhang from hiring that had been agreed to many, many months earlier. June of course is a major college hiring -- university hiring, professor hiring kind of a cycle. So I don't know that that will be repeated. The important thing here is that we did in fact correct, and I think going forward you should be comfortable that we're paying a lot of attention to the headcount.   

OPERATOR: Justin Post,  Merrill Lynch.

JUSTIN POST, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: The gap between your revenue growth, 57%, and your sponsored click growth has been maintained around 12%. Could you talk about the drivers there? Where you are in your monetization cycle? Do you have a pretty good pipeline of things coming forward? And do you think things like YouTube and AdSense for content could actually grow that gap with the lookout to next year?   

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: This is Jonathan. I can maybe cover some of the monetization issues. We're certainly very happy with the product upside that we achieved this quarter. It was really -- it really came out of over 20 quality and UI improvements that we launched.   

There were two very big things that we have talked about publicly. The first was the reserve base promotion. And actually we only launched that in late August, so it only had part of the quarter to manifest itself in terms of improvements. And that was basically the change to the formula which determines which adds are shown above the search results in yellow on Google.com. So that was certainly significant.   

We have also been doing some things like previous query based at targeting, which is pretty significant. We're looking at the previous query to try to figure out what to do on the next query. So we're pretty confident that we've got many, many more ads quality improvements like these. We are also launching them internationally pretty expeditiously. So from that standpoint we think there is a very healthy pipeline in ads improvements.   

OPERATOR: Brian Pitz, Banc of America.   

BRIAN PITZ, ANALYST, BANC OF AMERICA: Your CPC growth rate accelerated from 7% last quarter to 8% this quarter. Can you provide any commentary on this, including is this driven by your recent algorithm change?   

And then suddenly with respect to your ability to monetize significantly better than competitors, is there the possibility for TAC rates to continue to come down, especially with respect to the upcoming renewal of Ask.com?   

ERIC SCHMIDT: Jonathan and Omid.   

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: I will let Omid handle the Ask.com comment. Basically you're talking about a 1% difference. CPC, as we have talked about in the past, is largely driven by mix. So I think if you looked at the monetization improvements I mentioned, that is certainly a component of it. But a large part of it is also a mix issue.   

Summer does tend to be modestly higher from a CPC perspective. One of the things that we see is that there is a lot less academic traffic, which  Google has disproportionate to most of the other players in the market. So with less non-monetizable traffic and modestly more monetized traffic, that is a mix that actually does play a role.   

OMID KORDESTANI: This is Omid. We are going to, I think, enter a period where you will see a lot of these fluctuations, so it will be hard to predict. One is driven by partnering renewals, like the ones you mentioned where we obviously focus on preserving our relationships with as many as our partners as possible, including Ask.   

But the other thing that is going in parallel with that is obviously increasing the quality of our network. And our partners are also actively involved with distribution strategy of their services, like we are. So I think the mix of those effects is really hard to predict. We're trying to improve the quality overall, which will I think actually eliminate some growth in terms of distribution in a network that is unhealthy in our opinion for the network. On the other hand the renewal and improvements in monetization really drive up the monetization efforts. And so that mix is hard to predict at this point.   

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: This is Jonathan. The one other thing I would add is that all of the ads quality efforts are very, very focused on eliminating a lot of the bad ads. In particular it is a lot of the very bad ads which are low CPC. So one of the things you'll see is that as we improve ad quality, reducing coverage, which in general is what we're doing, you will see the CPC increase because those lousy ads are generally the nickel or thereabouts types of ads.   

OPERATOR: Jeffrey Lindsay, Sanford Bernstein.   

JEFFREY LINDSAY, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: We would like to ask a little bit more about the 2,100 new hires, or the 1,800 after Postini. We noticed that a high proportion came in sales. Could you possibly give us an indication of a graphic split for these new hires, overseas versus domestic?   

And then can you give us an indication of the rationale for the expansion of the salesforce? And given that a lot of your sales are automated, wouldn't expansion of the salesforce be taking your cost structure in the wrong direction?   

OMID KORDESTANI: This is Omid. There are couple of important factors in that. Some of them you mentioned. First we have been very focused in having the proper level of presence in every country that makes sense for us to have both our partnership team, as well as advertising sales teams that directly work with customers. As you can imagine in some of the emerging markets for example, both in Asia and in Europe, we have had actually early success with advertisers working directly with our systems who are online channel.   

However, you reach a point where local education, helping the efforts of monetization with clients requires the presence. And what our focus has been is to really push our field salesforces, our direct salesforces to really spend their time on the named accounts, and also represent the full suite of products that we have.   

So one of the things we're trying to avoid is having multiple salesforces for the different products and services we have. For example, the YouTube activity. One of the great efforts we have done both in North America and other regions is to actually train the salesforce and combine efforts so that our customers receive one voice and one representation from the Company covering a majority of the products.   

At the same time, what we're doing is paying actually a lot of attention to cost per revenue dollar metrics and salesforce productivity, and putting the right customers in the right channels, and mapping that with our sales organization where again we balance the direct salesforce that is in the field versus the operations team and sales efforts that do on in our big operations centers in Dublin and in Argentina and local countries in Asia and in India, which we have a major presence in.   

OPERATOR: Youssef Squali, Jefferies.   

YOUSSEF SQUALI, ANALYST, JEFFERIES: Can you talk about monetization on this video side, and YouTube in particular? You have started syndicating that content across the ad network. When do you turn up the monetization dial on that? It is it an '08 event? What is preventing you from doing it now?   

Secondly, I guess for Sergey, is it fair to assume that you have decided to go with ad overlays over a pre-roll and potentially post rolls?   

SERGEY BRIN: Let me just take both of those. We are certainly progressing on monetization for YouTube and whatnot, but that is not the number one priority for that property right now. We continue to grow the traffic and improve the user experience. We continue to improve the publisher experience. And also we're working on things like the fingerprinting, which we announced recently, which we have just really fantastic technology for.   

On the advertising UI, we're very pleased with the overlay. But I don't think we are ever going to say like, oh this is it from now on. We're going to continue to test a variety of different formats. And when we started in UIs for advertising on search, where by the way the little text ads were considered really crazy, it took a long time to really perfect that to get advertisers to really understand and learn it and ramp the monetization. Here also I think we are in for a long-term investment.   

OPERATOR: Heath Terry,  Credit Suisse.

HEATH TERRY, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: As you start broadening out your advertising formats with your television relationships, dMarc, YouTube, to what degree are your search advertisers starting to manage these mediums from a single point of contact for you? And how far along are the more traditional branded advertisers in beginning to look at their Internet and traditional forms of advertising alongside each other when they're trying to evaluate the effectiveness of that advertising?   

OMID KORDESTANI: This is Omid. We are actually spending a lot of time -- that is a very good question -- in terms of how we should focus on the core business and help all advertisers, including the major Fortune companies and FTSE companies across the world really take advantage of search. That is a proven model for us. We really understand a lot about it. And that is something we -- kind of salesforce spends the majority of their time doing at this point.   

In these other areas, as Sergey mentioned for example, we are really prioritizing in the case of YouTube the user experience. But at the same time we're having great demand and interest in advertisers trying these new formats and working with us.   

In the case of radio, TV, print, all of these new initiatives, we are seeing a lot of interest. We're spending time on it and really trying to balance, not losing focus on the core business that we really understand well and clearly works for the advertisers. As well as getting interesting trials going, trying different formats. So I think we seem pretty -- we're very confident in terms of that the future of these formats, and especially the video, which is a great area of focus for us, as well as TV. I would say those two areas you will see a lot of progress from us in the coming quarters. And search will continue to remain a very, very strong focus.   

OPERATOR: Jim Friedland, Cowen and Company.   

JIM FRIEDLAND, ANALYST, COWEN AND CO.: I didn't hear any comments on the call about  Google Checkout. And now that we're heading into the holiday season, I just wanted to see if we can get some commentary on what you're seeing in terms of adoption, and especially in the UK where you just launched.   

Secondly, CapEx, while we expect it to continue to grow quickly, has gone down sequentially. And I was just wondering if you can comment on how it has been trending in the core search business in terms of ROIC? On that incremental dollar spent, are you getting better returns on your search CapEx today than you were say twelve months ago?   

SERGEY BRIN: This is Sergey. On  Google Checkout,  Google Checkout is continuing to grow. We're very excited about it. I personally use it all the time. We have been adding a number of great merchants. Most recently we added B&H, which happens to be my favorite camera equipment store. But we are adding many others as well. And we're excited going into Q4 because we have -- it is a fairly young product and this time we get to develop a further into a holiday season. So we really excited about that one.   

On your other question, I'm going to turn it over to --.   

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: This is Jonathan. I caught the Checkout part of the question. Maybe we can follow up and get the second half. I just wanted to mention Sergey's shopping experiences are too limited. We've got a big chunk of top 500 merchants in Q3. We launched  PetSmart, drugstore.com, shoebuy.com and the NHL Store.   

I think the real story that is important there is that many of the advertisers that we're working with, such as Jockey, are reporting much, much higher click through rates. They achieved as much as 60% higher with Checkout. And they decreased the cost per click by over 31% with  Google AdWords and  Google Checkout. So we're seeing much more significant volumes in terms of some of these advertisers and the performance with the advertisers. Specific -- I'm not sure I got the other half of your question.   

JIM FRIEDLAND: The other half was on the returns on invested capital on search CapEx, because CapEx has been trending down a little bit. It is still expected to grow quickly, but for that dollar spent on search CapEx a year ago versus today, are you seeing improved returns on your business?   

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: We don't actually use that -- it is a good question -- we don't actually use that metric in the way you phrased it. What we are really trying is to invest the capital of our shareholders as wisely as possible. So as you know, we have built large and very powerful data centers that are largely custom-designed. Those data centers do more than just search. They do advertising. They host apps. They do  Google Earth and Maps and so forth and so on. We're quite comfortable that that investment, which we monitor incredibly closely, because that millions of dollars involved, really does translate into superior financial returns.   

One way to think about this is that a year ago people would ask us about capital, why we were spending all this money on capital. And we would say, we will get it. We will get back in scale and in systems and so forth. You're seeing the benefit of the investment a year ago. Hopefully you'll see the same investment return in a year for what we're doing today.   

OPERATOR: Sandeep Aggarwal, Oppenheimer & Co.   

SANDEEP AGGARWAL, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER AND CO.: Two questions, and one, sorry, again asking a question on mobile. But I wanted to know if you can share what kind of mix are you seeing in terms of a search query initiated by mobile phone versus PC? And is there basically a trend you can share versus last year?   

Secondly, you have completed one quarter with universal search. If you can make any comment in terms of what kind of improvement the end user has seen, and what kind of benefits advertisers have realized?   

ERIC SCHMIDT: On the mobile search side, our mobile searches are increasing rapidly compared to a year ago. They are growing more quickly been non-mobile searches. They are still a very small percentage of total searches, which is something which is of great frustration to us. And we're working very, very hard with the mobile operators to get  Google Search to be as standard as possible on every phone. It is very quick and very responsive. Because we think the people using phones really want to use  Google to solve interesting information problems.   

Jonathan, do you want to handle the second question?   

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: The second question specifically on universal search, yes, I think as you know we launched the Searchology event in -- around the middle of May. We are very pleased with the increases in traffic which we saw this summer relative to the traditional seasonality. I'm not sure that I can statistically attribute the causality to universal search, but certainly what we are seeing and is very, very favorable feedback from users. We are seeing good click through rates, particularly as Larry mentioned, with the better integration of pieces from different datasets like Book Search. So as we add more books into the index and make it blend better, we certainly see higher click throughs. So in terms of revealed user activity, what we are seeing is very strong. Whether or not that is actually what drove growth is unclear. I think it is certainly a component.   

OPERATOR: Mark May, Needham.   

MARK MAY, ANALYST, NEEDHAM AND CO.: It is increasingly clear then in order to succeed long-term in the online marketing services space it is best to have a broad set of ad format capabilities. The question is can you provide us with some data points that illustrate  Google's current position in what I think is the largest of those, which is -- or one of the largest -- which is brand or display ads, and what are you doing to better your position there?   

OMID KORDESTANI: This is Omid. I think at this point it is still early for us to be able to really put any markers. What we're very busy with is just engaging the customers, training the salesforce, trying these new formats, understanding which ones work best. It is clear that the engagement models is of great interest, things like the Gadget ads that we mentioned. The accountability and the measurements, the kinds of things we're doing in TV that we discussed earlier, all of those is very meaningful to the advertiser. And there's great interest from them to participate in these trials we're doing and these tests we're doing.   

I think we should be in a position to share more information with you in 2008, as we get more of these services out of beta, as well as sign up more partners, more inventory, and get the advertisers to have more spending in these. But I think, as I mentioned earlier, I think you'll see that primarily happen initially in both TV and the video space for us.   

CHRISTA BETHINGER: I think we have time for just one more question.   

OPERATOR: Jason Helfstein, CIBC World Markets.   

JASON HELFSTEIN, ANALYST, CIBC WORLD MARKETS: Two questions. One quick one and then fairly longer. Are there any marketshare numbers or growth rates you can provide for China and India?   

And then my second question relates to the consolidation we are seeing of network guys by AOL and  Yahoo. It seems to us that that is kind of a planned behavioral marketing. Do you have any concerns if they are not careful they might trigger a privacy concern for the industry -- and legislation or something we obviously don't want to happen. And are there any discussions that are going on perhaps at like industry or IAB level, so everyone is careful in that regard?   

ERIC SCHMIDT: On the growth rates in China and India, we are starting from a relatively smaller base than in a number of other countries, and so the growth rates are quite significant. And we would expect that to continue until they get to some reasonably stable growth pattern. Both markets are growing quickly. Both markets are underpenetrated and (inaudible) as a whole. In China, as you know, we have a local competitor who has majority share. In India it appears as though we have majority share. But in both cases there is -- it is essentially an open field for all the players.   

On the question of consolidation and some of a privacy concerns, this is something that we spent a lot of time on. And we're very concerned that the actions of the industry as a whole, people who are concerned about what happens on the Internet, could somehow affect us or really hurt consumers.   

From a  Google perspective we have done a number of things to that respect. We have announced a whole bunch of policies around cookies and log retention, which are innovative in the industry. As best we can tell we have a most aggressive privacy policy of any of the key players in the industry today. But we're also working very hard with government relations teams all around the world to try to get people to understand what it really means to have people using the Internet all day and the various conflicts that are inherent there.   

From a  Google perspective, our ultimate success is based on the happiness, satisfaction, and excitement of end users. I can tell you that an end user is not going to come to  Google if they don't trust us. So the ultimate check, if you will, on a company like  Google is the fact that we are a consumer company, primarily. And the consumers are free to choose. And if they believe that  Google is a poor quality company with respect to their privacy, they're not going to use  Google. They're going to use somebody else. So it is very much a fundamental part of our business strategy not only to promote privacy, but also to encourage everyone to take it very seriously.   

So with that, it looks like we have run out of time. I want to make sure that everybody knew that we are having our financial analyst meeting next week. And we're looking forward to all of you who can attend in person coming. And of course, you are invited. And those of you who cannot attend in person, of course there will be a full webcast and everything will be available online, as you would expect.   

So with that, thank you very much, Christa. Thank you everyone for joining us.   

CHRISTA BETHINGER: Thank you all for joining.   

OPERATOR: This concludes today's conference. We thank you for your participation. You may now disconnect.   

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.   

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.   

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]   

   CO
goog : Google Inc.
   IN
i8395464 : Internet Search Engines | iint : Internet/Online Services
   NS
c11 : Plans/Strategy | c15 : Performance | ntra : Transcript | c151 : Earnings | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
Voxant, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020071025e3ai002s6
  


 HD
 Q2  2007 Google Earnings Conference Call - Final   
   WC
9,116 words
   PD
19 July 2007
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.     

   LP
OPERATOR: Good day, everyone, and welcome to the  Google Inc. conference call. This call is being recorded.   

At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Ms. Maria Shim, Investor Relations Manager. Please go ahead.   

   TD
MARIA SHIM, IR MANAGER, GOOGLE: Good afternoon. Welcome to our second-quarter 2007 earnings call. On the call with us today are Eric Schmidt, Chief Executive Officer; George Reyes, Chief Financial Officer; Larry Page, Founder and President of Products; Sergey Brin, Founder and President of Technology; Jonathan Rosenberg, Senior Vice President of Product Management; and Omid Kordestani, Senior Vice President of Global Sales and Operations.   

Eric, George, Larry and Sergey will provide some thoughts on the quarter, and then we will have Jonathan and Omid join us for your questions.   

This call is being webcast from our Investor Relations website. Our press release, issued a few minutes ago, is now posted on our website, as well as presentation slides that will accompany today's prepared remarks. A replay of this call will be available within a few hours.   

Some of the comments we will make today are forward looking, including statements regarding our investments in our business; seasonality; our traffic acquisition costs; increases in cost of sales; plans to continue to invest in personalization; international growth; growth in our headcount and expected level of capital expenditures.   

These statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated by these forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements speak as of today, and you should not rely on them as representing our views in the future, and we undertake no obligation to update these statements after this call.   

Please refer to our SEC filings, including our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2007, as well as our earnings release posted a few minutes ago on our website, for a more detailed description of the risk factors that may affect our results. Copies of these documents may be obtained from the SEC or by visiting the Investor Relations section of our website.   

Also, please note that certain financial measures we use on this call such as EPS, net income, operating margin and operating income are expressed on a non-GAAP basis and have been adjusted to exclude charges related to stock-based compensation. We have also adjusted our net cash provided by operating activities to remove capital expenditures, which we refer to as free cash flow. We report our GAAP results, as well as provide reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to GAAP financial measures, in our earnings release.   

With that, I would like to turn the call over to Eric.   

ERIC SCHMIDT, CEO, GOOGLE: Thank you very much, and thank you all for joining us in your busy day. We have once again delivered strong revenue performance, particularly on core Google.com search and strong cash flow in our seasonally weak quarter. We're obviously very pleased with that.   

Traffic was stronger than we expected on Google.com both domestically and internationally, with annual traffic growth actually increasing over time, which is a very positive surprise.   

We are clearly doing the right things to attract and retain users. You can see this in the success of our many products. We're very focused now on people spending their time searching, using information online and doing it in a global way.   

The summer seasonality that we always talk about does appear to be milder than we expected, which is also good news.   

We are improving our ability to monetize searches, as we do every quarter, with another strong quarter of ads quality improvements. We are still continuing to see strength in revenue per query and click-through rate, and the pace of ads quality innovation is strong as we continue to scale up this effort and build up on our expertise. It is a big area of investment for us and an important one.   

So we have continued to make significant investments, as we have previously discussed. We are growing rapidly, building the best infrastructure, hiring the best to extend our footprint internationally -- all the things that we talked about -- building better and better products and invest in doing so in the model that we've talked about -- 70/20/10, and 20% [time], and that sort of thing. The data center is reducing latency, increasing search indices, etc. Network effects are driven by scale, and  Google is the beneficiary of that.   

By focusing on the best talent, and we have talked about this as well, we have a growing percentage of international hires and international offices contributing to our global product set. We are building now localized products for each of these markets and we are seeing significant gains in terms of our role and our impact in each of these languages and cultures in ways that matter to end-users. And of course, we're still applying the kind of discipline that we have always talked about with respect to making strategic long-term investments and short-term profits.   

So we are busy executing on our search, ads and apps strategy at scale all around the world. It is a focused strategy with these three billers that will really grow the  Google ecosystem.   

From a  Google perspective, when we look at the quarter, one area we exceeded over our expense plan was headcount. We are very pleased with the talent that we've brought on board, but going forward we will watch this area very closely.   

So when I look at the quarter, we are very pleased with what we're delivering. The product model is working, our global growth strategy is working, our innovation model is working, and we continue to be an innovator at scale. And we certainly expect that to continue.   

I do want to mention, as I have before, that the second quarter which we just completed and the third quarter that we are in are seasonally weaker in traffic than the first and four. And we would, of course, expect that to be true for many, many years to come.   

Let me turn it over to George for his comments. And then I will join you at the end. Go ahead, George.   

GEORGE REYES, CFO, GOOGLE: Thanks, Eric, and good afternoon, everyone. I will go through a discussion of the quarter quickly so that we can allow more time for your questions.   

Gross revenue increase to $3.9 billion, representing 58% growth over last year. Despite expected seasonal weakness, we experienced particular strength in our Google.com properties, driven primarily by stronger than expected traffic growth globally, as well as continued improvements in ads quality.   

As Eric mentioned earlier, the pace of ads quality innovation was strong, with the aggregate of these improvements positively impacting Google.com revenue. Revenue from Google.com properties was $2.5 billion, representing a year-over-year growth of 74% and sequential growth of 9%.   

Now I will turn AdSense revenue, which grew 36% over last year and was approximately flat at $1.35 billion. Growth in AdSense was affected by several factors, including typical seasonality that we see in our network during Q2, and to a lesser extent changes to the AdSense implementation of certain AdSense research partners that were less favorable to revenue.   

We also implemented changes that improved the user experience on our network, as well as provide more value to advertisers. For instance, AdSense for Content revenue was affected by policy changes such as termination of publishers who were not meeting our quality thresholds, partially offset by strong revenue growth from other AdSense for Content partners.   

Let's now look at aggregate paid clicks growth. To remind you, aggregate paid clicks include clicks related to ads served on  Google properties, as well as ads served on our partner sites. Aggregate paid clicks grew approximately 47% over Q2 of last year and were roughly flat with Q1 levels, reflecting the typical seasonal pattern we see in Q2.   

Let me now discuss our international performance. We continue to make significant international investments, and we're seeing the benefits of this strategy. International revenue increased to 48% of total revenue, or roughly $1.8 billion, driven primarily by strong growth in Europe, despite weaker seasonal traffic trends.   

Spain, Italy and France in particular outperformed in Q2, while Germany, along with the UK, were significant drivers of revenue growth. The UK came in with revenues of $600 million and 4% sequential growth. Our substantial investments in R&D, sales and marketing, as well as infrastructure, are benefiting our smaller markets as well, with healthy growth rates in markets like Brazil, China and Korea.   

Now turning to expenses, traffic acquisition costs were $1.15 billion and 30% of total advertising revenue, down from 31% in Q1. AdSense TAC was just over $1 billion, while TAC related to distribution partners and others who direct traffic to our websites totaled $87 million in the quarter. As we grow our AdSense partner network and embark upon new initiatives, we may see additional pressure on TAC rates going forward.   

Other costs of revenue increased $67 million over the prior quarter primarily as a result of increases in costs related to datacenters, included depreciation, equipment and operations. We anticipate that other costs of sales will continue to increase going forward.   

Looking at operating expenses, operating expenses in Q2 other than cost of revenue included $234 million in stock-based compensation and totaled $1.2 billion. The growth in OpEx was primarily driven by increases in expenses related to payroll and facilities, which was $625 million in the quarter.   

One of the larger drivers of payroll expense was the Company bonus plan. This was due in part to a revision of our bonus accrual methodology that will allow us to more proportionately recognize the related expenses each quarter. This all led to a higher bonus accrual in Q2, which includes a catch-up from Q1, and affected all expense line items.   

A second factor driving expenses was headcount growth, which led to higher payroll expenses. We added 1548 employees in Q2, the majority in sales and marketing and engineering. And at the end of the quarter, we had a full-time employee base of 13,786.   

The percentage of our international hires -- new hires also continued to rise, demonstrating our commitment to further scale the business internationally. We have grown quickly to address strategic opportunities, and as we grow we're applying increased discipline when making investments and taking a careful look at how we allocate resources efficiently across the world.   

Turning to operating profit, non-GAAP operating profit, which excludes stock-based compensation, was $1.3 billion, with non-GAAP operating margins of 35%, a decline from 38% in Q1.   

Now turning to cash flow, operating cash flow was strong at $1.2 billion and CapEx for the quarter declined to $575 million. The majority of our CapEx was again related to IT infrastructure investments, including production of servers, datacenter construction and networking equipment. We will continue to make these investments going forward as our infrastructure and resources make possible such innovations as universal search, and will further our leadership position in the industry.   

Free cash flow, a non-GAAP measure, which we define as cash flow from operations less CapEx, increased to $655 million.   

So in summary, we believe our results reflect the strength of our core search and ads business, while our significant but disciplined investment positions going forward will allow us to leverage everything that we have been doing at  Google.

Now I will turn it over to Sergey.   

SERGEY BRIN, FOUNDER AND PRESIDENT OF TECHNOLOGY, GOOGLE: Thanks, George. I am really excited to tell you about what we have accomplished in the past quarter, especially with respect to search. And of course, search remains the heart of what we do.   

We had a big launch this past quarter in particular with universal search. This means now when you search on Google.com, and soon it will be available on our international domains, you are going to get results from both the Web as well as image, video, news, maps and books all together.   

And this may seem simple, but in fact it has taken a lot of infrastructure work just to be able to do all the computation across all those corpuses, as well as the algorithms that allow us to rank those disparate types of information together.   

Just a couple days ago, I was researching an old IBM kind of mainframe system from the 1960s I had created on  Google, and it never occurred to me to search for videos on that kind of query. But in fact, there were great videos, and they popped up, and I watched both IBM's promotional videos from the '60s as well as a fantastic kind of looking-back kind of research history video about that particular computer. It turned out to be very useful to me.   

And I expect that other users also find this useful, along with all the other corpuses I mentioned, not just video. It is just amazing where you don't think to search for something you are looking for where the information could just be fantastic.   

On the international front, we have been making great strides. We are actually now experimenting with trying new kinds of home pages, for example, in Korea, Taiwan and Hong Kong, that are completely different types than we have tried before on our U.S. sites, as well as our European sites. And we think it will be more appropriate for the local cultures and their contexts and their broadband connections, which for example in Korea are extraordinarily fast.   

The initial results, by the way, have been coming back quite positive, so we are optimistic about that.   

A big launch that maybe we don't appreciate so much in the U.S. is cross-language information retrieval. And what that means is that if you run your query in one language -- and by the way, don't forget, many users out there, if they don't speak English, they can only get in their language about a tenth of the information, say, is available on the Web as in English. So it is a much smaller set. But now, when they do their query, we will actually run that query in other languages, including English, and get back the results and translate them back.   

And this is just really phenomenal. This is really opening the true power of the Web to people who don't speak necessarily English. And by the way, it works in English, too. So occasionally, when you get stuff and it is only in French or Italian or whatnot, you'll get it back. I am very excited about this particular one.   

Now, in addition to search, of course, we have been working on our iGoogle page, the personalized home page, as we used to call it. It is launched in 18 new domains. It is one of our fastest-growing products. And we have been [effecting] fantastic gadgets for them, the little modules that you plug in. I have about 20 on my home page. It is really a good way to be able to see a bunch of information at once, not to have to navigate to disparate sites.   

And we launched GadgetMaker, which lets people who aren't JavaScript and Ajax wizards in their own right to actually create gadgets that are going to be useful for things, like sharing photos, planning events and whatnot.   

This is just one aspect in the way that we are personalizing the Web. And I think we are going to continue to invest lots of resources in this area.   

Now, jumping ahead, while there's so many things I would like to tell you about some of our Web efforts, I only have limited time here. On ads, we have been doing a lot of work on ads, as always. And our goal is to connect advertisers with people who really care about their advertisements, who are really interested in their products. So the most important thing is the quality of our ad system.   

And Q2 was a really strong quarter. We had lots of launches of different ad quality improvements, improvements in the algorithms. And we had good results with our advertisers and with the publishers as well. We also enhanced the feedback system that allows users to give us feedback on the ads. And it also better connects users with the advertisers that they would be best served by.   

Now, we've also -- advertisers obviously want to get traffic to their websites, but ultimately they are interested in getting sales or leads or whatnot. So we want to make the whole process for the advertisers' marketing spend as effective as possible.   

Starting first off with the launch of the redesigned  Google Analytics, it's got new visualization tools and custom dashboards. And it really lets marketeers and advertisers and just people who really care about their websites get great information and understanding about how are people actually using those websites. And that allows them to in turn optimize their websites.   

We added 10 new languages -- that is up to 17 languages supported now. And we actually have had, as a result, great growth in both new customers for analytics, as well as people linking their AdWords account to their  Google Analytics account, which is the most powerful combination.   

We've also added very important placement performance as well as search query information. So now, advertisers know where in our network precisely their ads are running. And this obviously gives them better control over the ads, too, and also which search queries are generating the best results. It is very useful information. And we have obviously had a lot of demand for that. And we finally have it out.   

Now lastly, I just wanted to mention our continuing work -- we mentioned this before, but the pay-per-action advertising. Ultimately, as I said, the advertisers want not clicks, but they want something to happen, like a purchase and whatnot. And the pay-per-action advertising is now available to all advertisers and on all publisher sites. And we have been having lots of advertisers move to this model. And it is such a no-brainer, then. You don't have to do the -- you don't have to figure out for yourself -- well, I don't know how much a click is worth to me and whatnot. It really ties it directly to the action.   

Anyhow, all told, I am very excited about the progress we have been making on both search and ads, and for apps, I would love to turn it over to Larry.   

LARRY PAGE, FOUNDER AND PRESIDENT OF PRODUCTS, GOOGLE: Well, thank you, Sergey. We continue to really invest in building simple Web-based applications to help all of our users organize their information and create new content. And as Sergey already mentioned with that mainframe example about video, we have been really excited about video. And the best example of this is really YouTube.   

We made very strong progresses quarter -- YouTube did -- in many different areas. And we added local support in nine new countries, and also, local users can now generate -- enjoy locally generated content, new features there, and new featured videos, directors and promotions. We have gotten great response to all of those things, which has resulted in increased usage.   

We also added many new partners in YouTube, several of them in newly added markets like Hearst Argyle Television, National Geographic and [Global do] Brazil. And we also broadened our distribution through other partnerships, for example,  Motorola,  Telecom Italia and Apple on the iPhone and Apple TV. And the iPhone, of course, has an amazing user experience in looking at YouTube. You can waste very many hours, and also enjoy useful content like mainframe videos on your iPhone.   

So  Google Apps also had a very successful quarter overall. We were named number one product of the year by PC World magazine, which we were very excited about. And we launched our apps premier partner edition for ISPs to offer cobranded apps to their subscribers. And we signed a new deal with several new partners, including  Virgin Media, a UK ISP.   

We also launched a tool in apps to enable easy migration of large numbers of email accounts to Gmail. And this does things like preserves the header information, threads all the conversations, makes your email searchable. And for example, just one customer migrated 30,000 users with 3 million emails in just 24 hours. So we're seeing -- we have a lot of excitement around that.   

We also announced our intent to acquire Postini for $625 million. And what that lets large enterprises do is really give them some of the complex issues that they have, like their business rules, their security mandates and legal compliance, and really let them do that easily over an email solution. So we are really excited about that, and lets us add Web-hosted security and corporate compliance for email, IM and other communications. Postini was actually one of our first partners in  Google Apps. And we are really excited about this and many of our customers are as well.   

Let me switch gears for a second and talk a little bit about developers. Really to support our efforts across all of the areas of the Company, search, advertising and applications, we're really supporting a growing community of developers. And as part of that effort, we had our first worldwide developer day to reach out to that community. We had over 5000 developers participate in over 10 countries and online, and we got a great response from them.   

We also at that time delivered several new tools and APIs for the developers to work with. One was called  Google Gears, which is an open source project that enables Web-based applications to run offline. And we also launched Mapplets, which lets people extend  Google Maps, and there's examples like real estate search and embedded photographs that developers are implementing now.   

So all of these developers are really helping us to create a new and interesting information and applications and content which helps us build our whole ecosystem and makes the user experience better for everybody.   

So I was really excited by our progress in this quarter. And now I will turn it over to Eric.   

ERIC SCHMIDT: Well, thank you. As I reflect on the quarter, I am really struck by our ability to operate and move forward at this scale. Normally, innovation at our size and growth begins to slow. But here, it seems to be accelerating. We are producing more products, with many more users, more languages, in more countries in the ways that we have talked about. And I think it is because our model is working so well that we are so optimistic about the future.   

When we talk about products, and Sergey talked, for example, about iGoogle, you can see something which goes from almost no users when it is introduced to many, many, many millions of users very, very quickly. So we know this model will continue to scale, and we know that we are focused on our primary mission, which is around search, ads and apps. And that focus is going to continue, with many good things to come in the future.   

So with that, maybe we should get some questions and comments. Maria?   

MARIA SHIM: Operator, could we start taking questions, please?   

OPERATOR: (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS). Anthony Noto,  Goldman Sachs.

ANTHONY NOTO, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Eric, one question for you. I think you have said previously that it was your goal to grow operating income each quarter on a sequential basis. And this quarter, obviously, it was down. I was wondering if that was completely due to the bonus accrual that you had mentioned, given the number of employees you hired was lower than we thought, D&A was lower than we thought and revenue was higher, because I am trying to get to that underlying difference. And if you could explain in a little bit more detail how much that incremental bonus accrual was.   

ERIC SCHMIDT: In general, we don't break out all the puts and takes on the changes in the accrual. What I would tell you is that we overspent against our own plan in the area of headcount, and that was -- some of it was related to this bonus accrual that I talked about, and some because we hired a little faster than we had planned.   

In looking at it, we thought, was this a mistake or not? And we decided it was not a mistake, that in fact the kind of people we brought in are so good that we're happy we did this. And as I said earlier, we will continue to watch this very carefully in the future.   

OPERATOR: Imran Khan,  JPMorgan.

IMRAN KHAN, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: One clarification question and then a follow-up. The clarification -- when you said that you will closely look at headcount, should we assume that headcount growth will slow down?   

And then secondly, Eric, you talked about how your traffic growth rate is actually accelerating. And then if we look at the paid click volume, it is flat sequentially, considering traffic growth rate is accelerating and you're getting into new countries. Why is paid click volume flat sequentially? Thank you.   

ERIC SCHMIDT: With respect to the headcount, as I said, we ended up somewhat higher on our headcount expenses than we planned, which is the issue that Anthony asked about as well. We will watch it. We will adjust. We will be opportunistic. But we are going to be careful about that.   

Jonathan, do you want to talk about paid clicks?   

JONATHAN ROSENBERG, SVP OF PRODUCT MANAGEMENT, GOOGLE: This is Jonathan. Sorry, I was muted. Typically, this is a slow quarter for paid click growth. It is basically the lowest in the year from a seasonality perspective. If you look at it on a year-over-year growth rate, paid clicks is very healthy and consistent with the trends that we have been seeing. So really, I would characterize the quarter as one of very strong traffic growth domestically and internationally in what typically we see as a somewhat weaker quarter from a traffic perspective.   

SERGEY BRIN: Actually, if I can add one more thing -- this is Sergey -- on the paid clicks, as we develop improved algorithms for showing our ads and as a result we're able to achieve better click-throughs, better monetization and whatnot, we usually like to split the benefit of that between both able to generate more revenue for publishers, other publishers than ourselves, but also we like to improve the user experience, which in some cases means we try to show fewer ads in certain locations where we think they are less likely to get clicked on. So that has a significant effect.   

IMRAN KHAN: Thank you. That's very helpful.   

OPERATOR: Mark Mahaney, Citi.   

MARK MAHANEY, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: I wanted to follow up with Sergey on that last point. If you are making the ads more targeted and qualified, which is what we think is happening, at the end, advertisers should see higher -- more qualified leads and be willing to pay for that. We have seen an acceleration in your CPC growth the last two quarters, and I know there's a lot of things that feed into that.   

But do you think that that actually is what's happening, or do you think that that kind of growth driver, that is that CPC inflection point, growing because of increased advertiser interest and being willing to pay for more qualified leads? Do you think that is still on the [come]?   

SERGEY BRIN: This is Sergey. I think it's a combination of factors. On the CPC, for example, the international mix changes. The nature of queries from season to season changes and whatnot. But I do think on the whole, as you said, I do think that advertisers are seeing really good returns, and therefore they do bid higher.   

And the other effect, as I mentioned, is that we tend to, when we have the opportunity, we feel like maybe we would be better off displacing some of the ads to show more search results higher on the page or taking more of the page. And especially as we improve the ad systems, therefore, we're still making equal or greater revenue, we do take that opportunity to increase the barriers to getting some ads up there. So that also has significant effects.   

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: This is Jonathan, just following up. In general, we have talked about this in the past, but we definitely believe there is plenty of room to grow pricing. We know that advertisers watch their ROI very carefully and they monitor their budgets accordingly. And Sergey alluded to the general dynamic of improving the quality of ads and what you can expect the dynamic there is with respect to click-through rates rising while the number of ads declines.   

But basically what we are seeing is when you try to parse out the average CPC, the growth rates in emerging markets versus developed markets impacts this a lot, because the new markets have lower prices and the faster growth in new markets tends to put the downward pressure on CPC.   

The other big thing that you saw this quarter was, as Eric mentioned, traffic growth on Google.com. And when Google.com grows faster, that positively impacts CPC significantly. And we did, as Eric mentioned, see very strong traffic growth there. So a lot of it is the distribution piece.   

OPERATOR: Mary Meeker,  Morgan Stanley.

MARY MEEKER, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Dave and I just wanted a couple clarifications. Eric, you've talked about the heads and basically the headcount and the operating expense changes and said you are going to watch it and you feel great about the people you've hired. But you indicated a portion of those were sales heads and a portion were international heads. I guess our translation would be that you feel comfortable that there will be related revenue commensurate to the hires in the next two to three quarters. So that is question one.   

Question two, if we could drill down on the bonus accrual a little bit, should we expect to see it to be -- will play out on a more normalized basis on a go-forward basis? And is it fair to say that half of the difference between what you might have been expecting in OpEx and half of what you got for the quarter was related to the accrual?   

And third question, if we may, just for a little clarification -- any thoughts on how we should think about cost of goods sold as a percent of revenue on a go-forward basis? And if you could answer any of those three, we will be happy. We know we went over our quota. Thank you.   

ERIC SCHMIDT: Thank you, Mary. I will let George answer the second two. With respect to productivity of our headcount, our headcount, especially in sales, is productive very, very quickly. Omid talks and says that it's maybe even with the same quarter which they are hired is a model that is scaleable. Omid?   

OMID KORDESTANI, SVP OF GLOBAL SALES AND OPERATIONS, GOOGLE: Again, the salesforce name at  Google means different things -- it's the field forces which are calling on new Fortune or FTSE companies, for example, as well as operational people that manage our online advertisers and optimizations that go into their improvements. All our analysis actually shows excellent productivity across the board.   

Some of the emerging markets obviously have different rates of productivity, and it is an investment we're making for the future there. But all in all, we've actually been going through a very thorough process of figuring out how best to take the salesforce and reorganize them to represent all the various products we have today, from the core search products to the brand-name products and to monitor our productivity really carefully as we add resources both domestically and internationally.   

ERIC SCHMIDT: George?   

GEORGE REYES: Just to answer your question here, going forward it should be a more normalized bonus accrual process. So this was just sort of a one-time inflection that we tried to do to true-up the bonus.   

OPERATOR: Ben Schachter,  UBS.

BEN SCHACHTER, ANALYST,  UBS: There's a lot of litigation and regulatory issues around both the Company and the industry, some established and some potential. What are the two or three that you think potentially pose both the greatest risk for the Company and the greatest opportunity?   

And then separately, at a very high level the success of text-based search ads have really shown how valuable advertisers find highly targeted ads. What do you think are the key barriers and opportunities to better targeting on the display and video side, both online and off?   

ERIC SCHMIDT: One your first question about litigation, we have already disclosed two major areas of litigation for  Google, the first being in the book area, the book scanning and Library Project, the second involving  Viacom. And both of those are very important from the standpoint of principle. And it would be great if those would go away or somehow would be resolved by technology or so forth. But we take those very seriously because we were sued by people who were unhappy with what we believed we were doing was right.   

With respect to broader litigation issues,  Google is in the information business. And there's always a potential that governments will decide that some of the things that we're doing are appropriate or inappropriate in ways that make our business harder.   

However, there is no short-term threats in that regard, and in fact in many cases the opening up of markets, the opening up of the Internet especially in countries outside the United States, is really putting pressure on governments to have a broader information access approach, make information more broadly available, open up their Internet borders in a good way. So we are very optimistic about that sort of thing.   

On our second question, we will have Omid answer that.   

OMID KORDESTANI: On the second question, there's two fronts, really, two thrusts of what is going on in the core business -- this continual work on ads improvement is all kinds of algorithms that continue to improve the targetability of the ads and the efficiency and accountability for advertisers and marketers.   

The interplay that was interesting between display and brand advertising and our core business, we're seeing great success. This last quarter, we saw Pepsi in the U.S.; we saw Coke in France and Heinz in the U.S. really try to take advantage of both sides of the equation here. So advertisers are looking for ways to interact with our users online and have a two-way conversation about their brands, really, or starting to use YouTube very effectively and advertise on the content network, which allows them this targeted reach.   

It's also possible to have this two-way conversation, really, an engagement with the users that the advertisers are really interested in. So we see great submissions of video or contests that then create that brand affinity, as well as, then, the ability to reach the audience and targetability that search provides.   

So we are really experimenting with all of that, and the core innovation is driving the core targetability, and we're trying to learn a lot on how to best leverage the network as well as the properties like YouTube to have a comprehensive solution for the advertisers.   

OPERATOR: Robert Peck, Bear, Stearns.   

ROBERT PECK, ANALYST, BEAR, STEARNS: I was wondering if you could give us a little more color or clarity on the current impact of your other endeavors, monetization on YouTube, radio side, TV and print, and when you think it may start to become more material?   

And secondly, I wanted to know -- you've recently rolled out Site Authentication, as well as the Unavailable After tag. And I guess our thoughts there are when should we see any sort of impact on either search volumes or click-through rates or CPCs going forward?   

OMID KORDESTANI: On all the new initiative from TV to print, again, we have moved from the beta phase, where we transferred a few advertisers, a few publishers and really expand beyond that, and we're seeing really excellent adoption. And what we're seeing is the advertisers are really pleased, and the partners are really pleased with the type of monetization they are experiencing.   

And again, it is going to be too early for us to see a material impact, given the scale of the other sides of the business. And the mantra I'm following right now is that we really need to first prove this model for both the advertisers and the publishers before we really scale it and scale it both in the specific geographies as well as internationally.   

So I think hopefully in the next few quarters we can shed more light on this. But at this point, we're seeing, as I said, great success with the early results and that we hope to be able to scaled these models.   

OPERATOR: Justin Post,  Merrill Lynch.

JUSTIN POST, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: When I look at the advertising revenues up 73% on  Google websites, was there anything non-search related really driving that number? And then long term, could you discuss your outlook for display or video advertising for  Google? Do you think it can be a meaningful percentage of your total revenues?   

ERIC SCHMIDT: It certainly will eventually be a significant and meaningful percentage. Jonathan or Omid, do you want to talk a little bit about the --   

OMID KORDESTANI: Yes, I think I just kind of spoke to that earlier, is that on all these fronts we're seeing great success, both in the advertising front and the publisher front in the context of the beta test that we're doing, and that we have reorganized the salesforce, for example, in the U.S., which is the most advanced, most mature market for us so that they can represent all the products.   

So every salesforce and sales group now within the U.S. structure has gone through -- is going through a lot of training and has just been reorganized so that they don't just represent search, but they represent all the products, and they have supporting expertise for the specific areas from YouTube to television to print advertising.   

So what you will see from us is, again, a lot of effort to take this beyond the beta phase -- engage more advertisers, more publishers -- once we prove that model, extend that internationally as quickly as possible. And again, I'm putting a lot of emphasis on this -- great hiring behind it and great innovation so that we can have it be a significant portion of our revenues. And we just have to see it develop.   

JUSTIN POST: Was there an impact in the quarter at all?   

OMID KORDESTANI: Not this quarter.   

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: Just in terms of the basic underlying numbers, the story really is, as we talked about, is clearly a combination of strong traffic growth and ads quality. Eric mentioned the traffic growth increasing over time and the increase in the rate there, which is very substantial. And Larry and Sergey also talked about the big investment that we have been making in the user experience and search quality and the universal search launch. And what I think we are really seeing there is that users are engaging in more searches by virtue of our improving the search experience.   

OPERATOR: Brian Pitz, Banc of America Securities.   

BRIAN PITZ, ANALYST, BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES: Two-part question on  eBay. Number one, any color on the impact you've seen in the quarter on volume and cost per click from the pullback in advertising on your site? And the second part -- any commentary on the acceleration of revenue that  eBay noted yesterday on its call that is associated with your international partnership? Thank you.   

ERIC SCHMIDT:  eBay has been a long-term partner for  Google. And while it is true that they adjusted their mix in our advertising model, they continue to be a very significant advertiser. We did not see an impact on  Google for many of the changes that they talk about that they made. And partly, that is because  Google is capable of choosing very much the best ad. And when ads priority shift and people move advertising around, we can still take advantage of the highest-quality ad as produced in the auction.   

So, so far, the answer is no, no impact whatsoever.   

Our international business is very, very strong, as you heard, and as a percentage of gross revenue it is growing especially strong in Europe -- again, also noted in the  eBay report. But that is not primarily because of our  eBay partnership; it is just because our international business is just strong overall.   

OPERATOR: Christa Quarles, Thomas Weisel Partners.   

CHRISTA QUARLES, ANALYST, THOMAS WEISEL PARTNERS: First if you could highlight what the theoretical limit for TAC rates would be. You are close to 85%.   

And then second, a broader question -- I'm just very curious about what you're doing with regard to the spectrum. And I was wondering if you could articulate what your telecom strategy is or what you are willing to articulate to this point, especially in light of some of the  Google phone rumors out there.   

ERIC SCHMIDT: Let me do the second part, and I'll have George talk a little about TAC rates. With respect to -- first, we don't comment on rumors, and there's lots and lots of rumors, which is always very exciting. We have looked pretty carefully at wireless, and we are sort of thinking about what we want to do there. From a  Google perspective, the most important thing is that there be an open network. We define that in the sense that people can go to a store or however they are going to get it and get a device, plug that device into a wireless network and be able to use the full capability of the Internet.   

And in the course of using that full capability of the Internet, which is going to be delivered on these mini-devices that have come out in this space globally, they're also going to become very significant  Google advertising users. So there's really a direct connection between the open interoperable network that we are now arguing for in SEC filings and so forth and the ultimate usage of  Google services and applications, and of course, advertiser satisfaction.   

George, on the TAC rate?   

GEORGE REYES: On the TAC rate, on an absolute basis, TAC increased. It was basically just a fundamental of more AdSense partnerships. And going forward, the future trend will depend basically on the relative growth of large AdSense partnerships and Google.com.   

CHRISTA QUARLES: Is there a theoretical -- will you strike a deal -- I mean, obviously you do minimum guarantees, but will you regularly start striking deals at 95%, or is this--?   

ERIC SCHMIDT: This is Eric. We prefer to do profitable deals. And we are happy to give the majority of the revenue to the partners, which is what this is doing. There is no particular rule that we follow.   

We have as a business taken the position that we do want to have growing operating income to the bottom line, basically growing operating income on a quarter-over-quarter basis. And although we did not achieve that this past quarter, it is certainly our goal. So all of the business decisions that we do are in the context of growing operating income on a quarter-over-quarter basis on an absolute basis, as well as building a strong cash flow-based business.   

OPERATOR: Douglas Anmuth,  Lehman Brothers.

DOUGLAS ANMUTH, ANALYST, LEHMAN BROTHERS: Can you provide an update on your efforts around digital fingerprinting and content identification?   

And then just one last question, and try to wrap up the bonus accrual thing -- can you just clarify how you were accounting for your bonus accruals in 2006 and how that is changing, if it is, in 2007 in terms of the calendar basis?   

ERIC SCHMIDT: This is really a question about Claim Your Content. Larry and Sergey?   

SERGEY BRIN: This is Sergey. I should probably have Chad do an update of that. But as far as I know, we have experiments that are running and actually working quite well. So we are optimistic to be able to deploy that lively in the near future. I haven't heard of any significant impediments. And obviously, this will present a new capability to content owners which they haven't had in the past with any other sites or mediums to be able to just detect in such a scaleable way, easily, just in an automated way. So we are very excited about it.   

GEORGE REYES: This is George. A portion of the increase in the OpEx is a function of the change in the bonus accrual. And that methodology includes a piece that relates to the catch-up of related Q1 charges. So that would be one angle on it. We also expect our bonus expenses to be more normalized or proportional going forward and less of a ramp-up throughout the year.   

DOUGLAS ANMUTH: So is it reasonable to think that, for example, in the fourth quarter this year that you will have -- that less of bonus accrual on a relative basis will be in the fourth quarter this year than it was last year?   

GEORGE REYES: Well, it will be normalized throughout the year going forward.   

OPERATOR: Heath Terry,  Credit Suisse.

HEATH TERRY, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: I'm just wondering if you could just give us an update on  Google Local, what you see as being the barriers in terms of really filling out the business directory there, as well as starting to bring monetization of the impressive level of traffic that you have gotten for that site up to where monetization in your core search product is.   

LARRY PAGE: This is Larry. I think we have been really excited about our efforts on local and business listings and apps, which are all kind of interrelated.   

From a user experience, I think there's still a long ways to go to make those things work even better. And you have seen us -- we have done experiments with things like having businesses listed on maps so you can see where they are and things like that -- I see all those things as interrelated -- and also improve targetability of advertising for local advertisers or locally targeted businesses.   

And I think we are in the quite early stages of those products being -- their user experiences are improving rapidly, and I think they will continue to. And also, the advertising capabilities of advertisers to target particular local needs is also improving really rapidly. So I think we are really excited about that. It is sort of like the other areas people have been asking about -- I think there is a lot of initial progress, which we are very excited about, and we expect to have a lot more going forward.   

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: This is Jonathan, just on some specific efforts this quarter. I think one of the things we did particularly with respect to Local Business Center was focus on making it easier and faster for businesses to submit their information. We launched a business ownership verification via phone and SMS in a bunch of international locales; I think we're up to about eight countries -- which replaces some of the more cumbersome processes that we had for verification efforts, which previously could take days or longer. And we got down to a few minutes.   

Some of the other thing that we did were better capabilities just in terms of bulk uploading of lists of business locations that cater to large chains of businesses. And we've got a much, much more robust UI for doing that. So as we build out all of that underlying functionality, we are going to be able to do a whole lot more here with Local.   

OPERATOR: Youssef Squali, Jefferies & Co.   

YOUSSEF SQUALI, ANALYST, JEFFERIES & CO.: George, I want to go back to the comments you made about a more normalized bonus accrual level starting in Q3. Any reason to believe, then, that margins could decline further from their Q2 levels? Doesn't sound like it, but I was wondering if you can comment.   

And then Larry, on your foray into the enterprise market, you started with search appliances in '02. Now you are going after hosted applications. Can you speak to the logic of going after that market, which looks very different to us from your core search market? And looking at the margin characteristics of [fast] companies, it looks like it may be very dilutive to your overall margins.   

ERIC SCHMIDT: Larry, do you want to do the second part?   

LARRY PAGE: Sure. Well, I think one thing to keep in mind, we have -- Gmail, for example, has been a very successful product. We're really excited about it. And there's many people within companies who -- they need different kinds of functionality in order to use Gmail, and they are among the heaviest users.   

I think we don't really think about it in that way, I guess. I think that we have a tremendous amount of usage with Gmail and other hosted apps within enterprises, and we are going to do just fine making money. I think the other kind of businesses you've seen there have a very different structure than what we have. And I am not sure -- I am not concerned about that not applying to us, those businesses necessarily being very low margin.   

ERIC SCHMIDT: George?   

GEORGE REYES: On your other question is -- we're just not going to comment on forward-looking margins. We just don't do that.   

OPERATOR: Gene Munster, Piper Jaffray.   

GENE MUNSTER, ANALYST, PIPER JAFFRAY: It looks like you guys have been a little bit more aggressive in China, specifically inking a deal with Chungwha -- sounds like you've kind of strengthened your brand there. Any thoughts on how your efforts in China are going specifically?   

ERIC SCHMIDT: This is Eric. When we entered China, we entered under a set of restrictions that have been well publicized. And we decided to invest heavily in China. We now have quite a talented engineering team, strong marketing, strong sales, very, very good connectivity and very low latency.   

The combination of that and a set of very good Chinese language products for search, advertising and some new ones they just launched seem to be accelerating our market share. Although it does not appear that we are number one in the market, it looks like we're now in a situation where we are quite competitive. And in many areas, users tell us that our products are better.   

So it is a very good start. And although we don't think that this will result in an immediate, huge success, we think that the tenacity of  Google, the many strengths that  Google brings to the party will bring significant victories in China over the next few years.   

So with that, what I would like to do is let's finish up. Thank you all again for spending so much time with us. When I think about what we have done and the set of networks that we have created -- the network of users, the network of advertisers, the network of publishers --  Google is doing a particularly good job of using these networks and tying them together in clever and new and innovative ways to provide real value to users, of course, especially in advertising, but also real value in terms of economics.   

And it is the sum of that that I think is perhaps the least understood part of  Google. It is the fact that we can link publishers and advertisers and users in new solutions that really do solve their problems. And they solve their problems in ways that have never been solved before. And we do it on a global scale.   

So with that, thank you very, very much.   

OPERATOR: And this concludes today's conference. We thank you for your participation.   

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.   

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.   

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]   

   CO
goog : Google Inc.
   IN
i8395464 : Internet Search Engines | iint : Internet/Online Services
   NS
c15 : Performance | ntra : Transcript | c151 : Earnings | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
Voxant, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020070726e37j001xn
  


 HD
 Q1  2007 Google Earnings Conference Call - Final   
   WC
9,117 words
   PD
19 April 2007
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.     

   LP
OPERATOR: Good day and welcome to the  Google Inc. conference call. This call is being recorded. At this time I would like to turn the call over to Ms. Kim Jabal, Director of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.   

KIM JABAL, DIRECTOR, IR, GOOGLE INC.: Hello, everyone. Welcome to our first-quarter 2007 earnings call. On the call with us today are Eric Schmidt, Chief Executive Officer; George Reyes, Chief Financial Officer; Larry Page, Founder and President of Products; Sergey Brin, Founder and President of Technology; Jonathan Rosenberg, Senior Vice President of Product Management, and Omid Kordestani, Senior Vice President of Global Sales and Operations. Eric, George, Larry and Sergey will provide some thoughts on the quarter, and then we will have Jonathan and Omid join us for your questions.   

   TD
This call is being webcast from our Investor Relations website. Our press release issued a few minutes ago is now posted on our website, as well as presentation slides that will accompany today's prepared remarks. A replay of this call will be available within a few hours.   

Some of the comments we will make today are forward-looking, including statements regarding international growth; possible future benefits from our partner deals; growth in our headcount; future investments in absent partnerships, distribution and content; future product innovation; our expected operating expenses; our expected level of capital expenditures; our expected margins; charges associated with stock-based compensation and possible future pressure on traffic acquisition cost rates. These statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated by these forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include a variety of factors, some of which are beyond our control. These forward-looking statements speak as of today, and you should not rely on them as representing our views in the future, and we undertake no obligation to update these statements after this call.   

Please refer to our SEC filings, including our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006, as well as our earnings release posted on our website for a more detailed description of the risk factors that may affect our results. Copies of these documents may be obtained from the SEC or by visiting the Investor Relations section of our website.   

Also, please note that certain financial measures we use on this call such as EPS, net income, operating margin, operating income and our effective tax rate are expressed on a non-GAAP basis and have been adjusted to exclude charges related to stock-based compensation. In addition, in the fourth quarter of 2006, we removed certain discrete tax items from non-GAAP net income and EPS.   

Finally, we adjusted our net cash provided by operating activities to remove capital expenditures, a measure we refer to as free cash flow. We report our GAAP results, as well as provide reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to GAAP financial measures in our earnings release. You can obtain a copy of our earnings release by visiting the Investor Relations section of our website.   

Now with that, I will turn the call over to Eric.   

ERIC SCHMIDT, CEO, GOOGLE INC.: Well, thank you very much. As everybody can see from the press release, we are ecstatic about our financial results this past quarter. And before I start talking about how well we did this quarter, I would like to remind everybody as I have each year at this time that we are about to enter our seasonally slower summer growth period. (technical difficulty).   

Our core business at Google remains very strong and continues to grow. We have seen an excellent performance in the US. Performance internationally is even better. International growth across many markets confirms the validity of our business model. Build the market, monetization will follow. What is different now is that everyone is thinking more creatively about monetization opportunities simply because they have learned about our successes and failures in past rollouts. So we're getting a common (inaudible) benefit from that.   

We are continuing to make significant investments in our core business. Data centers, of course, primarily for speed, comprehensiveness and usefulness and engineering to preserve our 70/20/10 model that you have heard many times before. In sales and support, and I should say this globally by the way, to attract and retain users and advertisers. And in partnerships of course. AdSense partners, content partners, distribution partners, off-line partners.   

Sometimes I worry that we spend so much time talking about all the new things, that we don't focus as much on the core business, especially in our marketing and messaging. And in looking at the quarter, the most important message is that our core business is very strong. It is the core business that is driving our success. Core services are as vital and vibrant and innovative as they could possibly be.   

The success of our core business continues to let us take calculated risks in new markets and expand in new products. Geographic, for example, committing to our European expansion, committed to Asia. China, of course, is very important to us, but only one market of many that are now receiving great focus at Google.   

Expanding our business to multiple platforms and formats. In display advertising, DoubleClick, which, of course, was the subject of our call last week, which all of you participated in. In video, YouTube, hugely successful for us. Video syndication now working well for us. The BBC deal, a historic deal for us this quarter. In mobile LG and Samsung deals this quarter, driving mobile adoption for the Internet and for Google in many, many good ways. Many partnerships already in place. In the enterprise business, a premier version this quarter this quarter, including now Docs & Spreadsheets.   

We are also expanding our business to off-line media, again the subject of a lot of discussion. Radio, the Clear Channel deal that we announced on Monday, again drives the definitive deal to make that business hugely successful for us. In TV the EchoStar deal similarly announced recently, which allows us to do targeted advertising in the television world. In print the test that we applaud, that we announced a couple months ago, is doing extremely well and being expanded as we learn what really works and what does not. Each of these strategies involves creating solutions that benefit both advertisers and users, and it is the synergy between them that we have been able to harness. Targeted use for effective advertising will continue to be our mantra. You all know that, of course. Technology and efficiency is the core of our technology approach, and it really does benefit end users. In fact, if you think about it, user benefit is the most important thing that we focus on as to how we make these decisions.   

Our past experiences and our failures, if you will, the learnings that we get show us what works and what does not. And from our perspective, and I think the forward challenge for the Company, is simply making these learnings scale globally so very, very quickly. And this is why we are so excited not just about the quarter but for the quarters that lie ahead.   

Now rather than me talking, maybe, George, you could take everybody through the financials and a lot of the details which are very impressive.   

GEORGE REYES, CFO, GOOGLE INC.: So let's go ahead and get started. Thank you very much, Eric, for that introduction.   

As you can tell, Q1 was a very strong quarter for us with truly impressive growth driven by our continued leadership in both search and advertising. Gross revenue increased 63% over Q1 of last year to $3.7 billion. Revenue from Google properties was $2.3 billion, representing strong year-over-year growth of 76%. We experienced healthy traffic growth in our Google.com business both domestically and internationally. Monetization continues to be strong, positively impacted by improvements in our ads in Q1, as well as in prior quarters.   

As we have discussed in previous quarters, we are constantly innovating to show our users more relevant and targeted ads, which in turn leads to benefits for our advertisers and strengthens our business. The investments in our extensive network of partnerships were also contributing meaningfully to our growth. AdSense revenues increased 45% over last year to $1.3 billion, driven by strong growth across our existing partners, as well as launching a few new partners.   

As on Google.com, our AdSense business experienced very strong traffic gains in the quarter, particularly internationally. I will go into more detail about our international performance in a moment.   

Beginning last quarter we began to disclose the growth in paid clicks. This number includes clicks related to ads served on Google properties, as well ads served on our partner sites. Aggregate paid clicks grew approximately 52% over Q1 of last year and approximately 13% over Q4.   

Now I will turn to the geographic discussion. We are continuing to see significant momentum in our international business as we invest in the infrastructure to address our global opportunity. International revenue was 47% of total revenue or $1.7 billion.   

As is typical in the first quarter, the UK was particularly strong with revenues of $578 million and 23% sequential growth as the travel and finance verticals rebounded as we expected from Q4. Other markets that contributed meaningfully to growth were Germany, France and Spain, as well as some of our Asian markets like Japan and also Australia.   

In addition, it is important to note that some of our smaller markets are also performing very well, including Ireland, Brazil and Korea, which benefited from our partnership with Daum. This demonstrates the diversity of our business and the potential to grow our business even more significantly outside the United States.   

Turning to TAC, traffic acquisition costs were $1.1 billion. The majority of TAC is related to the amounts paid to our AdSense partners which totaled just over $1 billion. The increase is due primarily to growth of more significant AdSense partnerships. As we grow our distribution in AdSense partner network and embark upon new initiatives, we may see additional pressure on TAC rates going forward.   

TAC related to distribution partners totaled $73 million in Q1. The increase in these traffic acquisition costs is associated with some of our largest distribution deals ramping up. Other costs of revenue increased $38 million over the prior quarter, primarily as a result of increases in depreciation related to data centers, bandwidth costs and content acquisition costs.   

Going forward, we anticipate that other cost of sales will increase as each of these line items grow.   

Turning to operating expenses, OpEx included $184 million in stock-based compensation and totaled $972 million. These included $506 million in payroll-related and facilities expenses, an increase of $13 million over the prior quarter. R&D decreased as a percentage of revenue, primarily due to lower expenses related to Company bonuses in the first quarter relative to the fourth quarter, while sales and marketing and G&A were relatively flat as a percentage of revenue.   

Non-GAAP operating profit, which excludes stock-based compensation, rose to $1.4 billion with non-GAAP operating margins of 38%, up from 37% in Q4. As we have said in the past, margins may decline as we continue to invest heavily in our business. You should expect continued growth in headcount, cross functions and across the world.   

We also expect continued investments in AdSense partnerships, distribution partners and content.   

Capital expenditures for the quarter totaled $597 million. While there were some real estate related expenditures as in prior quarters, the majority of our CapEx is related to IT infrastructure investments, including data centers, servers and networking equipment. As we have discussed previously, we expect to make continued significant capital expenditure investments to drive the growth of our business as these investments have contributed tremendously to our success to date.   

Now turning to cash flow, operating cash flow was strong at just over $1.2 billion. Free cash flow, a non-GAAP measure which we define as cash flow from operations less CapEx, increased to $623 million.   

And with that, I will turn it over to Larry.   

LARRY PAGE, FOUNDER & PRESIDENT, PRODUCTS, GOOGLE INC.: Thanks, George. I'm not only excited about our financial performance, but also our product performance in the quarter, and that's what I am going to tell you a little bit about. Now remember we keep about 70% of our resources focused on our core business to search ads, and the rest of that, which is probably the other 30%, is probably primarily what you hear about. But we work tremendously hard to improve our core relevance and our focus on search, and we made many improvements this quarter in many, many different markets on just basic quality and relevance in our search.   

We've also made user experience (inaudible), which are easier to see, and those are on things like when you do a search, you can actually get maps and reviews and businesses right in your search results and also in very, very many countries. We released a bunch of new ones this quarter.   

We are also looking a lot more at (inaudible). So it seems like personalized search where the results are tailored to you specifically are things we also made great strides in.   

Now we have also I think made great strides in moving people towards Web computing, and things like Gmail we opened up sign-ups this quarter and had very healthy growth there, which for us really (inaudible). We also improved our Docs & Spreadsheets product, releasing 15 new languages, and we also had tremendous growth there.   

We also released Google Apps Premier, which is a product for companies and universities we launched this quarter. It lets you have Gmail for your own domain, and you can even use your own existing login process for users to log in to Gmail and use Docs & Spreadsheets and all of our great products. We have a lot of great customers there in Northwestern, even customers in Kenya and Rwanda, and we have pilots with GE and [TMG], and we're very excited also about the prospects there.   

In YouTube we have had tremendous updates of YouTube, and I would say the growth in that is actually accelerating even more. And we have made many improvements to those sites, which increased usage of community features of people talking about videos, rating them and so on. And just generally improving the totals there and going gangbusters there.   

In the (inaudible) page on Google, we released a new improved version of that with things like themes so you can have your personalized home page on the beach or at the bus station and see a little bit of the weather that is going on, and we had tremendous uptick with huge numbers of our users adopting that on the first day. We also released things like the Google [talk pageants], which lets you see your friends on your Google personalized home page, and we look forward to improving those products even more. So our user experience is still a tremendous focus for us in new products also.   

And with that, I would like to turn it over to Sergey and have him talk a little bit about the other part of our ecosystem, which is partners and advertisers.   

SERGEY BRIN, FOUNDER & PRESIDENT, TECHNOLOGY, GOOGLE INC.: Thanks, Larry. I'm excited to talk to you today and to echo a lot of the sentiments that Eric already shared with you. How key partnerships are to Google and how much we care about making our partners successful.   

So first off, we noted some of the improvements we made to YouTube, and we also have a number of more partners there. So, in the past quarter, we announced BBC, the NBA, the Sundance Channel. We even have a partnership with a number of the presidential candidates this year, their video clips which we call You Choose '08. And YouTube continues to grow both user-wise, as Larry mentioned, and in terms of partners.   

In the mobile space, we had a number of new partners sign up and a number of announcements, including Nokia and Vodafone, both two very large announcements. I want to spend most of the time, however, talking about advertising, both what we have done to help out our most numerous partners, our advertisers, as well as the other kinds of partnerships we struck within the advertising space.   

First of all, we have launched Pay-Per-Action in beta, and that is the easiest way for an advertiser in many cases to decide how much they should pay for advertising, which is just to specify an action like a purchase and say, this is how much I am willing to pay for each purchase. And we're very excited about that. Clearly it definitely speaks to what advertisers ought to get most.   

We also have helped them out in getting more of those actions, conversions, purchases and what not with the introduction of the Website Optimizer. And this lets you automatically test and refine your website to optimize your -- adopt your version or whatever that may be.   

Another thing that will really help that is to make it easier for customers to actually transact. To spend money without fear of their credit card being stolen, without just a lot of hassle of entering the same information over and over, and we have done that with Google Checkout. And in this past quarter, we announced a number of new partners for Google Checkout. We launched  CompUSA and Blue Nile, and we also signed RadioShack, as well as B&H.   

Now we have been talking here mostly about search and certainly online advertising. Within online, we have expanded quite a bit. You are familiar with our AdSense for content network. We have signed Daum up for that. That is the very large Korean site. And, in fact, now we have 75% of the top 20 social networks also in our AdSense network.   

The big news you have no doubt heard by now is our intent to acquire DoubleClick, and we're very excited about that because of the possibility to make it even easier for our advertisers to launch and manage their search and display campaigns, which they can now do or will be able to do in an integrated fashion.   

That is the Internet portion of our advertising. But, of course, we also have been trying to make it easier for advertisers to advertise on other media, off-line media. In television, for example, we have a partnership with EchoStar over at that  DISH Network and that way we can deliver advertisements to  DISH Network viewers. And in radio more recently we have signed a partnership with Clear Channel, which opens up a lot of great inventory to our advertisers who want to use the radio medium.   

But ultimately, as Eric said, it really comes down to end-users or viewers to be consumers (inaudible) of advertising. Some people feel that advertising is a zero sum game, and they shrug when they hear about all these new advertising products and progress and what not. But that is not in our experience. In fact, that is fundamentally our vision is that we can make advertising better across the board, better for everyone. We don't have to have intrusive or body advertising to be effective. In fact, quite on the contrary, it is the interesting, relevant, sometimes entertaining advertising that is most effective for both advertisers and makes it the best possible world for the users and viewers alike.   

So, on that note, I would like to turn it over back to Eric.   

ERIC SCHMIDT: Well, thank you very much. As I listen to this, I'm very impressed that the global growth strategy of Google continues to work very, very well. Our innovation model is clearly working. Lots and lots of new products coming out and no end in site. The partnerships that we reviewed, in particular the ones that Sergey and Larry just highlighted, are now really working, they are really running globally. The core business in search and ads, we're still at the beginning of that business. A lot of people has said that well maybe this is not such a big business. Well, it is a huge business, and we have a lot of room to grow there.   

The complementary strategies, things like off-line ads, some of the new ad initiatives, YouTube again complements our core search and ads business. There are other examples, obviously our enterprise business. They are working, too.   

I'm personally impressed with the way in which the management team and employees of the Company have managed the growth from an operations perspective. You can imagine the dials and everything else that has to be tuned here, and yet we have been able to take advantage of the opportunity before us, and I believe we will be able to do that for the foreseeable future.   

So with that, why don't we go directly to your questions? Operator, are you ready for the first question?   

OPERATOR: Absolutely.   

ERIC SCHMIDT: We are going to add Jonathan and Omid as previously announced because they do such a good job with Q&A.   

OPERATOR: (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS). Mark Mahaney,  Citigroup.

MARK MAHANEY, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Two quick questions, please. A housekeeping question. It looks like the change of the lowered tax yield on stock-based comps maybe added $0.03 to $0.05 to the number. Could you just walk through that math a little bit?   

And then secondly, a broader question just on display advertising, Larry and Sergey, when you started search, you clearly had something different in mind, something more targeted than the normal advertising that was out there. What generally changed in your thinking that made you think either that the display advertising market was big enough or that you had a targetable solution that was good enough to make you want to make the moves you made like buy DoubleClick?   

ERIC SCHMIDT: Let's have Larry and Sergey answer the second question while they are figuring out the answer to the first.   

SERGEY BRIN: Yes, it is Sergey. So there were a number of things that made us excited about this area. First of all, of course, the success of our own products within the broader advertising space, not just search but, for example, AdSense for content and more recently even including image ads and things like site targeting. I think we realized how much inefficiency there really was in online advertising. Because at the face of it, you would thing like, well, how complicated can it be? You just kind of pick a good site for your ads, and you just run them, and what could be inefficient about that?   

But, in fact, it turns out there are many different websites. There are many different users who use those websites in their different situations. And advertisers in many cases don't have all the metrics information they need to decide which ads to run where. So we seen good success with that, and we think we can expand that more to broader kinds of media, not just static images and what not, and of course, with this intent to acquire DoubleClick, we think we can make more advertisers much more efficient.   

ERIC SCHMIDT: Larry and Omid and Jonathan, do you want to add a little bit more to that?   

OMID KORDESTANI, SVP, GLOBAL SALES & OPERATIONS, GOOGLE INC.: The other thing I would add is that we are, as we have said in the previous quarters, very busy actually with all these initiatives, including display advertising. In the last couple of quarters, we've had a lot of customer success stories where they are taking advantage of the content network, the different formats we already support, the targetability. Customers include companies like REI that, for example, use Google's display network to promote new store openings. They utilize geographic and site targeting functionality to reach both mass media sites like NewYorkTimes.com, as well as niche audiences like specialty sites like [rockclimbing.com]. And this has proven so effective for them in driving in-store traffic that they are really going to utilize it as part of their ongoing marketing initiatives. So based on what we saw here, we just know that the same principle we applied to search targeting can really extend to these new initiatives and that we are going to place a lot of emphasis on that.   

LARRY PAGE: This is Larry. I was just going to add that I mean we are still in the very early stages of display ads and branding ads and that whole area. And much of the technology we have already developed for our search ads and AdSense for content and so on can be used for those markets. People do very sophisticated things around time of day and types of users with these things, and also the sites already with our AdSense network, the sites where you just choose to run your ad or not and so on, the content of those pages, and all of those things supply cost to the kind of spaces we are now going after.   

ERIC SCHMIDT: So, could you ask the first part of your question again, the housekeeping question?   

MARK MAHANEY: Yes, just on the tax, it sounds like there may have been a little bit of a change in the tax rate you are applying to determine the shield on the stock-based compensation or maybe there was not a change. But it looks like there was. It looked like it was a very modest change. But could you walk through that, or you can just say there was no change.   

GEORGE REYES: It was a very, very modest change from the 134 to the 183 here.   

OPERATOR: Robert Peck, Bear Stearns.   

ROBERT PECK, ANALYST, BEAR STEARNS: Eric, I wondered if you could comment a little bit about some of the tweaks and the algorithms during the quarter. Particularly, do you take something like the words Bear Stearns and you type them into Google versus typing them into Yahoo!. You notice that you're not monetizing as much as you did. And you go back a year or so ago, there was a lot of buzz around a third link. I think you have made some of these changes maybe in the middle of the quarter. Could you talk about what you saw as far as impacts on CPC, you know pricing, as you sort of scale back your inventory on key words you were selling, click through rates and ultimately revenue.   

And part of that as well is, did you also reduce some of the minimum CPC pricing to a more taillike turn? And could you just sort of quantify how you see those changes impacting maybe a more full Q in Q2 and it should have gone forward?   

ERIC SCHMIDT: Jonathan, why don't you handle it?   

JONATHAN ROSENBERG, SVP, PRODUCT MANAGEMENT, GOOGLE INC.: Sure, this is Jonathan. I'm not sure I can quantify it too much for you, but I can try to give you a sense philosophically of what we have been doing and some of the changes that we actually implemented.   

As you know, we have been upgrading the quality component into ads from the start, and we have been building on that with fairly robust quality improvements almost every quarter since. This quarter was obviously no exception. Some of the type of changes that you're talking about, specifically the ones that we implemented in mid-February which we announced, were the quality-based bidding changes. And basically what those did was improve the quality score algorithm that generates more accurate quality scores and predictions, particularly in some of the cases where we have limited data. So there are a lot of situations maybe a lot of people don't search a lot on Bear Stearns. We have done a better job of figuring out for some subset of those words how to tweak the quality-based scores. And that was certainly significant.   

One of the things that made it even more significant was that we added to the front end of AdWords the ability to give advertisers transparency into their quality so that they could see whether or not particular words were poor, okay or great. And that actually allowed the results to improve pretty substantially. So that certainly had a real impact during the quarter, although it was only implemented midway through the quarter in February.   

There are just a couple of others which I can touch on real quickly. We also announced that we changed the background color on the top ads to yellow. And we also changed the area in which people click so that people are less likely to click if they are not actually trying to click on the ad. And these types of things are also important.   

Landing page quality I think is another thing we have been working on. And beyond that, it is basically just many changes to the ad systems. You can derive the CPCs to the extent that you want by looking at the paid click number which George announced.   

OPERATOR: Anthony Noto.   

ANTHONY NOTO, ANALYST: Eric, I was wondering if you could comment at the management level as you make investments what measurement do you look at holistically for the Company as a return-based measurement to ensure that the overall business and overall shareholders are seeing an aggregated return from each of the individual investments?   

And the reason for my question is I know that you have launched a lot of initiatives, Google Checkout, Gmail, Google Finance, that may not necessarily have a unique revenue stream tied to them that is large, but it does provide ancillary benefits to the overall platform. And then are you incented on that return metric?   

And the second question is, we track your revenue per employee on a gross basis. And up until the fourth quarter of 2005, revenue per -- gross revenue per employee had been growing in the single digit range. And since then it has been declining, in fact down 112% year-over-year this quarter. And I recognize that this is because you're adding more new employees that are not productive. At what point do you think your existing employee base is large enough that your new employees do not cause your revenue gross revenue per employee to decline?   

ERIC SCHMIDT: An interesting series of questions. We don't approach the questions quite the same way that you phrased them. Our primary focus is on end-user happiness, end-user traffic, end-user growth. So what we look at is we look at what will drive even more end-users using our product globally. So, for example, if we could bring out a product that will cause people to use Google and its various applications, that much more and they spend more and more of their day using Google services, that allows us to eventually monetize that.   

So we do not insist on a direct link from, say, a product that does not get revenue to one that does.   

In the cases that you cited, we look at the revenue contribution. But the primary focus and the primary management focus is around end-user happiness, end-user growth, end-user everything.   

With respect to the revenue per headcount, again we are not very focused on that. We are much more focused in total growth of the platform, total growth of the number of advertisers, total growth of the monetization. And it is easy enough for us to dial any particular metric-like employees per gross revenue up or down as we see fit. It is more important to focus on end-user happiness. A lot of the people we are talking about are, for example, coming in for customer service globally. We are also way, way investing in engineering because we believe this is a time where our model is scaling that products that we are going to bring out in a year or two are going to have huge impacts to the investments we're making in data centers, and we need the engineers to build the great products to do so.   

OPERATOR: (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS). Douglas Anmuth, Lehman Brothers.   

DOUGLAS ANMUTH, ANALYST ANALYST, LEHMAN BROTHERS: I was hoping you could comment on Toolbar activity. If we look at third-party data, it suggests that Toolbar growth is driving north of 40% of total growth in search queries, which clearly validates your distribution strategy. But I'm wondering what you're seeing in terms of the behavior pattern for users with downloaded Toolbars, not just right after they get the Toolbar but over a little bit of time. Does it make you concerned at all that we could be seeing sort of a onetime spike from this initial sort of bigger distribution of Toolbars? Thank you.   

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: This is Jonathan. Certainly a big story in the quarter is traffic, and a component of the traffic performance is certainly Toolbar. No question Toolbar users search more than non-Toolbar users. I cannot really comment on the degree to which the growth rates would be dependent on the number of remaining users out there who could also use Toolbar, but we can certainly say that your hypothesis is correct, that Toolbar users search significantly more.   

LARRY PAGE: This is Larry. I was just going to add, we have been distributing Toolbars for a long time and had a very successful product there for a long time. I don't think there has been any huge changes over the last quarter or two in people's behavior of those mechanisms.   

OPERATOR: Mary Meeker,  Morgan Stanley.

MARY MEEKER, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: One of the things that we are seeing in the market right now is it feels as though we are seeing an acceleration in the migration from off-line advertising to online advertising. Eric, you talked in your opening remarks about your deal with Clear Channel, your deal with EchoStar obviously and others. Obviously they are early stage. But we are, frankly, surprised that you're able to announce such large deals as quickly as you have been able to do that. Do you think that we will see a lot more of those in the next six months? And when we add them all up at the end of 2008 and we look at the financial impact to Google, do you think it could be at a level where it is actually material as quickly as the end of 2008?   

OMID KORDESTANI: Your observation is correct. We are very busy in the partnership area and very much so also globally. And I think what we are seeing is that again the power of the platform and the interest in tapping into depending on what kind of partner you are, both the advertiser network and the publishing network is very, very interesting for people. And that just again is pushed toward more efficiency measurability is of great interest to everyone, be it the print sector, audio or TV. And that I think what everybody is really trying to figure out is where do their put their own resources just like Google did awhile back where we focused our field operations on more fortune companies. I think the TV companies, print companies, they are all trying to apply their resources to their area of their own expertise and then utilize our ability to drive a lot of revenue and targetability and measurability.   

So we're finding great interest. It is very competitive, the market is very competitive, and on a global basis, we're just again doing the best we can to staff up both partnerships from legal and finance to be able to model these deals and be able to have the right partnerships in place. So yes, I would say you are going to see us be very much focused on this space.   

OPERATOR: Ben Schachter, UBS.   

BEN SCHACHTER, ANALYST, UBS: Congratulations on a nice quarter. Can you talk at a high-level on Google's view of cookie data and third-party ad serving? And now that you own DoubleClick, do you think it is more likely that you will open up the network to third-party ad serving?   

ERIC SCHMIDT: I will let Larry and Sergey.   

LARRY PAGE: This is Larry. I think that in general we are really excited about opportunities to improve some of the practices that are in place there with regards to people's privacy but also while improving targetability and the kinds of information you need to really provide good information to everybody involved in the process. So I think we're excited I guess about our ability, our technological strength and how it can be applied to some of those issues. I don't think we're not ready to go into any specifics on that yet.   

OPERATOR: Justin Post,  Merrill Lynch.

JUSTIN POST, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: Could you talk a little bit about tax? Obviously you saw the percentage or the percent of network increase quarter-over-quarter. Are you -- is the mix of who your partners are changing a lot? Did a couple of partners ramp up, and how do you see that going forward? A little more comment on that.   

And then on the distribution partner side, is that kind of fully in your numbers now, or are there still more partners ramping up there for future quarters?   

GEORGE REYES: This is George. So the answer is that we're doing a lot more deals, and the deals are, in fact, carrying a disproportionate amount of TAC. So, at the end of the day and I think I suggested that in my earlier comments, TAC as a percentage of revenue is likely to increase given the deals that we're doing these days.   

JUSTIN POST: Was there a partner too that specifically ramped up in the quarter?   

GEORGE REYES: Yes, I cannot comment on that. Generally I think the TAC rates are going up directionally.   

OPERATOR: Imran Khan,  JPMorgan.

IMRAN KHAN, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Your paid click growth rate in Q1 was 52%. I think it was down some 61% in the fourth quarter. Can you please help us to understand if that growth rate decline was due to query volume growth rate decline or the anniversary of [click to it] improvement?   

Also, do you have any contra-revenue from Google Checkout?   

ERIC SCHMIDT: George could specifically answer the contra-revenue question with respect to Checkout. From a marketing perspective, Q4 was seasonally more significant in terms of the marketing efforts that we were doing. He can give you the specific accounting implications.   

The other specific question relates to paid clicks and click throughs?   

IMRAN KHAN: Yes, so basically paid click declined -- growth rate declined from 61 to 52%. Is it driven by query volume growth decline, or there was an anniversary of click-through improvement that you made in the past?   

ERIC SCHMIDT: Query volume was very healthy. I think we already mentioned that. Q1 is typically a somewhat weaker seasonal quarter from a monetization perspective, although George mentioned in his prepared remarks that there are some exceptions internationally, particularly in the UK.   

Beyond that, I would not be too much into an aggregate CPC measure as we have talked about in the past. Country mix, property mix as the previous question alluded to, had significant impact on how that shakes out. Clicks are extremely healthy as well.   

GEORGE REYES: Okay. On the Checkout question, you have to sort of stand back. We really peaked seasonally in the Christmas season. And right now the business is going, but it is not going at a seasonally strong rate at this point in time. So we are bullish on Checkout, and the contra-revenue range will probably be somewhere around 1% of revenues or thereabouts.   

OPERATOR: Brian Pitz,  Bank of America.

BRIAN PITZ, ANALYST, BANK OF AMERICA: First, a broader industry question. When you look at the UK market, a lot of data suggest that market is growing very substantially and north of 40% and now represents about 11% of total ad spend is now online versus the US. We estimate about 5.5.   

Can you talk about what is fundamentally different about that market or what is going on there that is driving those higher growth rates? And then just a quick follow-up. You mentioned earlier on the call growth of investment and content. Any sense there what type of content or areas you may be interested in?   

OMID KORDESTANI: In terms of the UK question, we're definitely seeing very strong performance there. I think is driven by one our leadership team and having put a lot of focus in both switching out to our clients, as well as advertising agencies, focus on named accounts. We're seeing increases in average spend, significant increases in that focusing on the different vertical strategies and making sure we understand the seasonality of those just as we mentioned earlier. Probably saw finance and travel bounce back, and in Q4, for example, we very much paid attention to how to deal with that seasonality, and that helped us in Q4 as well.   

So we just think that again the economy is very strong there. The sales team and the leadership is very strong, and just our ability to execute our strategy is working well. There is also strong interest in the new ad formats that we are sensing, and also, as we mentioned, deals like BBC, we are going with a very (inaudible) we are able to establish.   

In terms of content, I think in general we are -- some of the spending we're doing is improving our product areas. For example, spending in mapping services and mapping data and some of the partnerships we established. But I don't think there is anything unusual there other than just our focus in improving both the products and expanding partnerships.   

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: This is Jonathan, just adding to Omid's comment, the two other things that I have noticed in the UK are that early on the agencies were particularly aggressive with the online medium, and that really helped spur the early growth when it was in its more nascent stages which has carried over.   

I think some of the other observations that I have seen just in the marketing literature are that there is a relative lack of TV advertising there because the BBC is so popular. And so they were much quicker to move their spending two other outlets and try things more quickly and then discover that the ROI was high.   

ERIC SCHMIDT: And George, you wanted to add something, didn't you?   

GEORGE REYES: I just wanted to clarify that comment on Checkout. So on Google Checkout basically we are less than 1% of where we were in the holiday quarter.   

OPERATOR: Christa Quarles, Thomas Weisel.   

CHRISTA QUARLES, ANALYST, THOMAS WEISEL: I was wondering if you could discuss some of these off-line ad partnership with regard to your view as to whether or not you can get beyond [remnant]. Clearly the Clear Channel deal is less than 5% I think of their inventory. Or it is a really just about redefining remnant for some of these markets? Clearly we have also seen the eBay upfront auction not working very well. So I was just wondering if you could discuss that.   

And then also I think last quarter you indicated that coverage rates were down. I was wondering if you could comment on them this quarter.   

ERIC SCHMIDT: One thing to clarify is that the Clear Channel deal includes a lot of premium inventory. It is not a remnant deal. That is a misperception. Maybe we did not communicate that very well. The EchoStar similarly -- those our primary spots. That is why those two deals are so important. It launches these two new initiatives right in front of the primetime viewer. Omid or Jonathan?   

OMID KORDESTANI: This is Omid. I would add that we really look for also how the partnerships would like to start with us. I think we are confident that we are very good at sign monetization given the diversity of our network and the ability of targetability. So each partnership is different, so there is -- they are depending on their own sales capabilities and how they like to work with us. We really want to be flexible and find where we can add value to these partnerships.   

ERIC SCHMIDT: Got it. (inaudible). I'm sorry, what is the other question?   

CHRISTA QUARLES: I think you guys indicated that coverage was actually down in Q4, and I was just wondering if you could characterize what it looked like in Q1?   

GEORGE REYES: You covered the what --?   

CHRISTA QUARLES: Ad coverage. Sorry. On the site it sounded like you were reducing the coverage as a whole across -- (multiple speakers)   

ERIC SCHMIDT: Sure. We're showing fewer ads, and those fewer ads are worth more because they are better targeted. Jonathan?   

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: Yes, I think what Eric said is correct. All of the -- many of the improvements that you are seeing from a quality perspective or improvements that are basically reducing the total number of ads and increasing the click-through rates. And that has really been the hallmark of the ad's quality initiative. And we have been layering them on, as I have said each quarter, quarter after quarter. So the improvements that we came out with in quarters past are further implemented in future quarters and then again this quarter as I mentioned. We implemented a number primarily in the middle of the quarter.   

OPERATOR: Heath Terry, Credit Suisse.   

HEATH TERRY, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: I was wondering if you could give us an idea, to the extent that you have this data and can share it, of your search users, what percentage are actually using multiple Google products using Mail, using Froogle, using Orkut one of the other offerings that you have got? How much when you look at usage of that entire Google universe as a whole, what percentage of it at this point would you qualify as being non-search?   

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: Sure, this is Jonathan. Probably the most significant change that we have seen there is that we have done a much better job recently of providing a unified login across all of the Google properties. So now what we're seeing is that users who log in tend to use their Google login regardless of which property they are logging in with, and that has manifested itself in terms of one experience that let's us really add a lot of value with personalization, which Larry mentioned, we're doing significantly.   

So we're seeing much, much better integration. In terms of actual percentages of use on different products, we really don't separate the data out that way. But we're starting to see much, much better integration, and we are also starting a number of efforts that will make things like one box show up more frequently, as Larry mentioned, so that you will see the information in context and sharing of things like addresses and other functionality across all of the products to make it a much more seamless and integrated experience.   

OPERATOR: Jordan Rohan,  RBC Capital Markets.

JORDAN ROHAN, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Reports out of the National Association of Broadcasters Conference indicate that Google was supposedly very close to introducing a content filtering system perhaps called Claim Your Content for use on YouTube and Google Video. Does this keep copyrighted content from being posted or make it easier to remove, and how might major studios or content producers prove ownership of intellectual property?   

ERIC SCHMIDT: This is Eric. Those reports did not quite get the gist of what we and in particular I said. Google is building a tool which is called Claim Your Content, and it allows publishers to somewhat automate the takedown process. It is not a filtering system. The technology does not block uploads. It makes it much, much more effective and much quicker to download essentially to get us to remove inappropriately uploaded content. It is very much compliant with the DMCA, and we believe we will address many of the operational complaints people are making about the workload that the DMCA has put on them. So we're trying to make that work, and we think it addresses the vast majority of all those complaints.   

JORDAN ROHAN: And how do studios prove ownership of the intellectual property?   

ERIC SCHMIDT: There is a mechanism where they work with us to show that, and again these tools are just beginning, and over the next year, those mechanisms will get better and better.   

OPERATOR: Youssef Squali, Jefferies & Co.   

YOUSSEF SQUALI, ANALYST, JEFFERIES & CO.: I was wondering if you could speak to the disparity in monetization between domestic and international outside of the UK? You may not want to quantify it, but if you can just kind of look at the disparity that you had last year versus this year, by how much has it shrunk as it has? I'm assuming that it has not. Can you get to parity over time because if that is the case then you guys may be in position to actually show revenue growth. (multiple speakers)   

ERIC SCHMIDT: I'm not sure I completely agree with some of the premise of that. We do expect that the international percentage of our global revenue will eventually be greater than 50%. International is getting close already, and that has been one of our strategic goals. It is fundamentally a function of the distribution of worldwide ad dollars, and there is only so much of a percentage in any particular market of worldwide ad spending that we can get.   

Do you want to characterize, Jonathan, the difference in international between leading markets like the UK and some of the ones -- is the gap getting closer?   

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: Yes, I think the way I would sort of look at it, is I would look at the strength of revenue in the US and the UK as a proxy for the opportunity set in each of those other countries.   

The next best thing to look at is the total amount of e-commerce which exists in any individual country. Obviously the more e-commerce, the more likely you're going to see significant monetization opportunities. Yet we have done a lot of effort looking at the correlation between GDP, Internet host, number of computers. My impression is it is generally driven by the big microeconomic factors, and that is where you're going to see the highest correlations. Some of the much more nascent countries still do have very, very low monetization rates.   

ERIC SCHMIDT: It is time to finish up. So let me end by saying that, firstly, thank you all for spending so much time listening to what we are up to, covering us and helping us get the message out. Again, as I reflect on the quarter and as I reflect on what we have talked about today, Google is very much benefiting from the growth rate of the industry and the model that we are using to grow with it or ahead of it.   

The industry is large. It is growing quickly. All of the players are doing a great job of making the Internet and the online and off-line experiences even more effective. We have also benefited from the very, very hard work of an awful lot of publishers, agencies and advertisers who are using tools that can be improved over time. We are investing a lot of money and time to build better platforms, better communities for them. All of this is in pursuit of our goal around end users, making the information that people want accessible to them exactly when and where they want it on the device in whatever country and language that they choose to be in or that they choose -- that they just care about.   

So the model is working, and this is a scale business and the scale looks very, very good to us.   

So with that, thank you very, very much for all your time, and let's go ahead and we will talk to you in three months.   

OPERATOR: That does conclude today's conference. You may disconnect your lines at anytime.   

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.   

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.   

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]   

   CO
goog : Google Inc.
   IN
i8395464 : Internet Search Engines | iint : Internet/Online Services
   NS
c15 : Performance | ntra : Transcript | c151 : Earnings | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe
   PUB
Voxant, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020070426e34j001ry
  


 HD
 Q4  2006 Google Earnings Conference Call - Final  
   WC
10,171 words
   PD
31 January 2007
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.    

   LP
OPERATOR: Good day and welcome, everyone, to the Google Inc. fourth-quarter 2006 earnings conference call. Today's conference is being recorded.  

At this time, for opening remarks and introductions, I would like to turn the call over to Kim Jabal, Director of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.  

   TD
KIM JABAL, DIRECTOR OF IR, GOOGLE INC.: Good afternoon, everyone. Welcome to our fourth-quarter 2006 earnings call. On the call with us today are Eric Schmidt, Chief Executive Officer; George Reyes, Chief Financial Officer; Larry Page, Founder and President of Products; Sergey Brin, Founder and President of Technology; Jonathan Rosenberg, Senior Vice President of Product Management; and Omid Kordestani, Senior Vice President of Global Sales and Operations.  

Eric, George, Larry and Sergey will provide some thoughts on the quarter, and then we will have Jonathan and Omid join us for your questions.  

This call is being webcast from our Investor Relations website. Our press release, issued a few minutes ago, is now posted on our website, as well as presentation slides that will accompany today's prepared remarks. A replay of this call will be available within a few hours.  

Some of the comments we'll make today are forward looking, including statements regarding possible future benefits from our partner deals; growth in our headcount; future investments in AdSense partnerships, distribution and content; costs and benefits associated with implementing our transferable stock options program; future product innovations; our expected operating and capital expenses; charges associated with stock-based compensation; possible future pressure on traffic acquisition cost rate; and our expected tax rate.  

These statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated by these forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include a variety of factors, some of which are beyond our control. These forward-looking statements speak as of today and you should not rely on them as representing our views in the future, and we undertake no obligation to update these statements after this call.  

Please refer to our SEC filings, including our Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2006, as well as our earnings release posted a few minutes ago on our website, for a more detailed description of the risk factors that may affect our results. Copies of these documents may be obtained from the SEC or by visiting the Investor Relations sections of our website.  

Also, please note that certain financial measures used on this call such as EPS, net income, operating margin, operating income and our effective tax rate are expressed on a non-GAAP basis and have been adjusted to exclude charges related to stock-based compensation, or SBC.  

In addition, we also adjusted our effective tax rate to remove certain discrete items that occurred during the quarter. (technical difficulty) we adjusted our net cash provided by operating activities to remove capital expenditures, a measure referred to as free cash flow. We report our GAAP results as well as provide reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to GAAP financial measures in our earnings release.  

You can obtain a copy of our earnings release by visiting the Investor Relations section of our website.  

And with that, I will turn the call over to Eric.  

ERIC SCHMIDT, CEO, GOOGLE INC.: Thanks very much, Kim. Business continues to be very, very good here at Google, and we are very happy to present another very strong performance from the Company.  

In thinking about it, we're going to talk a little bit, both in our remarks as well as in your questions -- and so thank you very much for those ahead of time -- about a number of themes which I wanted to highlight. Global expansion of Google -- it turns out that we are gaining share, according to most third-party data analysis, in almost every country. Our international businesses have contributed a significant financial component to both our revenue, our profits, as well as our advertising. We expect that to continue.  

What is interesting is we are also beginning to develop the partnerships that are appropriate for a global company. So for example, we did our first large access deal with BSkyB in the United Kingdom in the same quarter.  

Our focus for our new product development, 70/20/10 and the other things that we've talked about has continued, and indeed, our leadership in search and ads continues. It's always wonderful. We have a much larger, higher-quality search index in essentially all languages. We continue to search new types of content -- books, code, patent, news archives -- in all sorts of interesting new ways.  

We are showing fewer ads per search on a much higher quality and much better monetization. So again, the targeting and the technical work that we are doing is producing better return for advertisers, better revenue for us, with even fewer advertisements on a comparison basis.  

We are experimenting with new ad formats. Google is the innovator in many online products -- maps, personalized home page, docs and spreadsheets and our products there. We are doing very, very well in mobile search. And of course, we have a very thorough and complete prioritization process that now allows us to understand how to deploy all these resources going forward.  

Another theme that occurred in the quarter which we again will highlight has to do with our message around partnerships. We've been talking about this for a while. But overall, if you look, the partnerships that we announced last year are all kicking in and you are beginning to see the benefit of having such distinguished partnerships.  

An example of such a partnership is, of course, the YouTube acquisition, which of course we are running now as largely a separate business, which is growing very quickly. But the OEM partnerships that we announced are also beginning to kick in -- KDDI, China Mobile and other mobile partnerships also working well for us.  

And the transparency message that we have been pushing is working in that people understand what we are doing and want to work with us.  

A big priority for the Company over the next while is the issue of sort of growing the Company. The long-term organizational structure, the human resource that we have managed to build, has tremendous potential, needs management focus, needs growth, training and so forth, and all of that is in place.  

What is interesting now is we are taking the learnings from our United States and UK sales models, for example, and globalizing those, and again, getting the leverage and the learning that we've had from these mature markets to the emerging markets.  

So to sum all of that up, Google is now presenting a much larger business mission -- many more kinds of end users with more information, more personalized services, many more partners -- partners who use Google information platforms to offer either their own services or ones branded by Google.  

We're talking to advertisers about using Google for all of our advertising incentives, not just text search, and that is going well. Vendors are using products like Google Checkout, which is doing well for us, and other services to speed commercial transactions.  

Developers are beginning to develop on top of Google as a platform play and using the services that Google provides to make amazing new products that really do change the world. And of course, in the media industries, because of YouTube and the success we're having in general, our role with respect to monetization and partnering with them is a story yet to come and one which we are very excited about.  

So with that, it's probably best to go directly to George, and take us through the financials, George.  

GEORGE REYES, CFO, GOOGLE INC.: Thanks, Eric, and good afternoon, everyone. We're very pleased with our performance in Q4, which demonstrated strength across Google and our network business and across the world.  

In addition to our solid results, we've continued successfully executing on our strategy to build an organization for the long term, with significant investments in our employees and in our infrastructure. We are truly a global company and we are scaling aggressively to meet the needs of our users all over the world.  

I will now turn to some details of the quarter. Gross revenues for the fourth quarter were $3.2 billion, reflecting growth of 67% over Q4 of last year. As in previous years, the fourth quarter was characterized by strong traffic -- growth in traffic, primarily due to the holiday shopping season.  

In addition, continued monetization gains and ads' quality improvements positively affected revenue growth. Revenue from Google properties was just under $2 billion, representing 62% of total revenue and year-over-year growth of 80%. Google properties revenue was driven primarily by healthy gains in traffic, as well as growth due to improvements in monetization.  

AdSense revenues came in at $1.2 billion, representing 37% of total revenue and year-over-year growth of 50%. Our AdSense business also experienced significant traffic gains, driven by strong performance among many of our larger AdSense research partners, as well as on our AdSense for Content network.  

In addition, ads quality changes, including enhancements to our content ads targeting system, contributed to growth in AdSense for Content. This quarter, we're going to provide some additional data on paid clicks, which include clicks related to ads served on Google, Google properties, as well as through our partners. Aggregate paid clicks grew approximately 61% over Q4 of last year and approximately 22% over Q3.  

Turning to Checkout, we're very pleased that Google Checkout adoption rates exceeded our expectations in Q4. I'd also like to note that our recent consumer promotions for Google Checkout during the quarter were accounted for as a reduction to both Google sites and network revenues in accordance with GAAP.  

Now turning to a geographic breakdown of revenues, the U.S. posted revenue of nearly $1.8 billion, driven largely by seasonal traffic gains from a strong holiday season, with particular strength in the retail vertical. International revenue was $1.4 billion, representing 44% of total revenue. Our growth in international revenues demonstrates that the investments we're making abroad, including the development of cross-functional regional offices around the world, are paying off handsomely. International revenues also benefited from favorable currency trends.  

Our European markets performed especially well this quarter. Germany and France in particular experienced significant strength, with solid performance in the retail vertical. The UK exhibited its typical seasonal pattern, declining modestly as a percentage of total revenues, from 16% in Q3 to 15%, at $469 million. The UK experienced similar softness in the travel and finance verticals, just as it did last year.  

We also continue to be very pleased with the growth we're seeing in our smaller European markets, such as Ireland, Benelux, Eastern Europe, and are likewise seeing very encouraging growth in Asia and the Pacific region, as well as Latin America, Australia and Brazil.  

Traffic acquisition costs, or TAC, were $976 million. The majority of TAC is related to the amounts ultimately paid to our AdSense partners, which totaled $916 million. TAC also consists of amounts paid to certain distribution partners, which totaled $60 million in Q4. As we grow our distribution and AdSense partner network and embark upon new initiatives like audio and video ads, we may see additional pressure on TAC rates.  

Turning to cost of revenue, the increase in cost of revenue were primarily driven by increases in depreciation expense related to our data centers. Going forward, we anticipate that other costs of sales will increase due to rising depreciation expense and credit card fees associated with both AdWords and Checkout.  

Operating expenses in Q4 included $134 million in stock-based compensation and totaled $862 million. These included $493 million in payroll-related and facilities expenses, which were the greatest drivers of OpEx this quarter. Non-GAAP operating profit, which excludes stock-based compensation, grew to $1.2 billion, with non-GAAP operating margins of 37%, down from 38% in Q3.  

Looking forward, we expect to continue investing heavily in our business. You should expect continued growth in headcount across functions and across the world. We also expect continued investments in AdSense partnerships, distribution partners and content.  

Changing gears and topics, in December, we announced a new innovative compensation program to attract and retain the world's best talent. We currently anticipate that we will implement our employee transferable stock option plan, or TSO program, in Q2.  

Since all outstanding stock options will be modified to allow selling under the program -- during the program, we preliminarily estimate a modification charge in accordance with GAAP of approximately $90 million in Q2 related to vested options as of the end of the quarter and a charge of approximately $160 million over the remaining vesting periods of up to about four years related to unvested options. For more details on these estimates of the stock-based compensation related to this TSO program, please refer to our press release.  

Before the incremental charges related to the TSO program, we currently estimate stock-based compensation charges or grants to employees prior to January 1 of 2007 to be approximately $621 million in 2007.  

Turning to a favorite topic of ours, capital expenditures for the quarter totaled $367 million, bringing total capital expenditures for 2006 to $1.9 billion. The majority of our CapEx is related to IT infrastructure investments, including data centers, servers and networking equipment. Our leadership in search and ads is a direct result of our relentless focus on building the most robust platforms for our users.  

As we scale, our business increasingly requires substantial computational power. In 2007, we expect to make significant capital expenditure investments. It is important to point out that the strategy of aggressively investing in our infrastructure has paid off handsomely and remains critical to our success, and we intend to follow this strategy for the foreseeable future.  

Now turning to cash, operating cash flow was $911 million. Free cash flow, a non-GAAP measure, which we define as cash flow from operations less CapEx, increased to $544 million.  

Our tax rate was affected by two discrete items. Last month, we entered into an Advanced Pricing Agreement, or APA, with the IRS related to certain inter-Company transfer pricing arrangements. We also realized a benefit to our income tax provision related to the 2006 R&D tax credit. Without these applicable discrete items, our non-GAAP effective tax rate for the quarter was 24%, and for the year was 26%.  

Without these applicable discrete items, our non-GAAP effective tax rate for the fourth quarter was 24% -- I apologize, I just repeated myself -- our effective tax rate will be greater in 2007 under the APA than it would have been without it. However, we expect our effective tax rate for 2007 to be at or below 30%. Please refer to our press release for more detail.  

So to conclude, we had a very healthy Q4 across the Company, and we continue to execute on our strategy of building the greatest -- building a great company. So now I will turn it over to Larry.  

LARRY PAGE, FOUNDER AND PRESIDENT OF PRODUCTS, GOOGLE INC.: Thanks, George, and hello, everybody. I am very excited about our results for this quarter. As always, serving our users was our number one priority this past quarter. We know that when we take care of our users, the whole Google ecosystem flourishes.  

I'd like to first talk about search performance. Now, there's five different dimensions of search performance that I want to talk about. One is the number of current user queries, the response time, the size of index, the document update frequency, and the complexity and sophistication of the ranking algorithms.  

We continue to invest in a global infrastructure that supports our search system because that investment allows us to improve performance among all these dimensions. As a result, we can now handle more user queries and respond more quickly.  

Our index is substantially larger and is updated more often, and the system supports ranking algorithms that are more computationally expensive and deliver better results to the user. Since users are interested in many types of information, we expanded our search index to include new types of content. We added the ability to search for code in more than 40 different programming languages and indexed more than 7 million U.S. patents.  

Google Video search now links to YouTube content, and with that acquisition, over time we will integrate the YouTube platform with our search engine.  

To make this range of information more useful, we're working on integrating different types of results -- video, images, news, books and so on -- all in one place. We are now blending book results into the main index and we will add more going forward.  

We are excited about providing a truly seamless user experience in search. Users also value the great innovation and flexibility driven by the open standards of the Internet era. Personalized home page users are now using over 10,000 gadgets, almost all of them developed outside of Google. This is one reason why usage of personalized search grew so much.  

We launched Google [Gadgets] web page, so webmasters can place some of those gadgets on their own sites as well. We merged docs and spreadsheets, and adoption grew rapidly. Users are increasingly taking advantage of the collaborative powers of hosting and sharing their work on the Web.  

Our users also need to reach us on multiple devices from any location. So mobile and global markets are an integral part of everything we do. We signed new partnership with companies such as China Mobile, Samsung, SK Telecom and Apple. We also launched a mobile application for Gmail and a GPS-enabled version of Maps with our partner Helio.  

Google Search now supports localized results in over 55 countries. We made improvements to our search quality across all languages and particularly in German and Japanese. Well over half our traffic and a large portion of revenue comes from outside the U.S., so we know these efforts are paying off.  

We opened engineering facilities in Poland, Russia, Denmark and Korea. These new offices, like our other international locations, have amazing engineers who can create new features, not only for their local markets, but for everyone else, too.  

Now I will let Sergey fill you in on what we're doing to support the rest of the Google ecosystem -- our advertisers and partners.  

SERGEY BRIN, FOUNDER AND PRESIDENT OF TECHNOLOGY, GOOGLE INC.: Thanks, Larry. I'm going to talk about advertisers, partners and a number of improvements we made in our monetization.  

First of all, our ad systems -- we focus not just on making money, but also on the ad quality. And ad quality has been something that we have been working on since launch of our ad system, known as AdWords Express back then, in 2002.  

In the fourth quarter, we continue to enhance our ad matching by eliminating ads from some of our less commercial queries while showing more ads on commercially oriented searches. And as a result, the percentage of queries that receive ads have gone down by several points, but monetization has improved. And these are the kinds of improvements that we make all the time and really improve both the quality and the monetization of our system.  

We also released an upgrade of our landing page quality system. This removes the low-quality landing pages from our ad results and improves users' experience after they leave Google and click on an ad. This in turn encourages users to click on more ads, because they have better and more useful content when they do so.  

The same user-focused approach works for partners, too. Our enhanced content targeting platform for AdSense significantly improved ad relevance. This means a better experience for users, better performance for advertisers, and more revenue for partners and for Google. We also launched the custom search engines. This way, partners can embed a tailored search engine on their site that provides a richer user experience.  

In sum total, we paid over $3 billion in 2006 to our partners. And this is a figure that we expect is going to increase as we ramp up our video, radio and print programs.  

Advertisers are now using our targeting platform to place brand advertising across our content network, and they're going to have more branding options as the YouTube inventory comes online.  

In 2006, we expanded offline ads. We rolled out audio, with radio stations, and print, with over 50 newspaper partners. The ability to offer premium online and offline inventory, along with the control and analytics to optimize it, puts us in a position to provide a complete sales and marketing platform for all advertisers.  

In June, we launched Google Checkout to give our users a better, secure, more efficient way to shop online, and the feedback has been positive. We regularly survey our users to gauge their satisfaction, and we are pleased with the feedback we're hearing about Checkout.  

In a recent survey using third-party data, eight out of 10 Checkout users described their experience as good or very good. Our fourth-quarter marketing investments paid off, with dramatic growth of the user base, and repeat usage stayed strong, which is a good measure of convenience and ease of use.  

Checkout yielded good results for merchants, too, who benefited from higher conversion rates and free transaction processing. In the six months since Checkout's launch, thousands of small and medium merchants have signed up, and we now have more than 20% of the Web's top 500 retailers. That list includes Toys"R"Us, Linens 'n Things, PETCO and Buy.com, and there are many more you can all see for yourselves on Checkout.Google.com. We expect this momentum to continue as we expand Checkout beyond the U.S. and deepen integration with other products.  

On an even more important note, I would like to talk about our unique culture and energy that we have been not only preserving, but even enhancing since our startup days. Our new transferable stock options will help by letting us continue to attract and retain talented people.  

We are proud to have been selected by Fortune as the number one best place to work in 2007. Fortune highlighted the usual Googley things like our free food, beanbags and lava lamps. But what is not apparent from the outside is the set of rigorous systems and processes that we use to manage our growth while maintaining this entrepreneurial zeal. As we grow in size and expand to new locations, we never forget that we are global citizens entrusted with taking care of users worldwide.  

I look forward to taking your questions. For now, it is back to Eric.  

ERIC SCHMIDT: Well, thanks, Sergey. So in thinking about this and listening to the folks, a question that comes to mind is what is the key to our success? And I think it is search. Search is getting better and better as we continue to innovate across the globe. Our employee base has grown, and in a very positive way. We have a great group of engineers and developers and employees who are able to share and communicate and contribute essentially new and innovative ideas and approaches. So we are able to continue to provide the most relevant information available on the Web.  

The strength of our ability to target this personal information continues to improve based on user feedback, better technology, etc. And this results in our advertisers being able to spend in the most effective way to contribute to everyone's bottom line positively. The net effect, of course, is strong revenue growth, good advertiser satisfaction and a real value to the end user.  

Our partnerships, of course, are growing very nicely, benefiting both our customers and partners, and everybody is getting to know us better and better. MySpace, Apple, Samsung, China Mobile others we haven't mentioned -- all doing well, with many more content partnerships coming in 2007.  

So at Google, we are very proud to be providing access to the world's information. We are committed to investing heavily in our people, innovation, creativity and fostering new ideas for our business model and products. We are also extremely proud to continue to deliver tangible results that exceed what we believe we would be able to do, with our commitments to technology, customers, advertisers and partnerships.  

We will obviously continue to evolve those relationships as we need to. And our commitment is to provide the most relevant information across the board in a personalized and targeted way across any device -- what you want, when you want it and how you want it.  

With that, thank you very much, and Kim, maybe we can go to questions.  

OPERATOR: (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS). Anthony Noto, Goldman Sachs.  

ANTHONY NOTO, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Thank you for the paid click growth rates. And my question pertains to that. 22% sequential growth in paid clicks, but gross revenue grew 19% sequentially. I was wondering if you could bridge the gap for us. Was price down sequentially per lead, or is that Google contra-revenues? Can you give us any clarity on that difference? Thank you.  

ERIC SCHMIDT: Let me add that we are asking Jonathan Rosenberg and Omid Kordestani to join us, as we have historically. Jonathan, you are probably the expert at this.  

JONATHAN ROSENBERG, SVP OF PRODUCT MANAGEMENT, GOOGLE INC.: Sure, Anthony. I will let George address the contra-revenue piece. But I think the thing that you really need to look at when you look at the sequential growth -- if you really want to get a measure of price to look at the health of the industry, you need to come up with something that is like a CPI or a Dow Jones index so that you are comparing apples to apples quarter to quarter.  

There are a bunch of other things that impact CPC. Probably the biggest is growth rates. In emerging markets versus developed markets, you basically have the dynamic that the newer markets have lower prices. So what that tends to do is, since they're faster growth, that tends to put downward pressure on CPC.  

There's another dynamic that you have in terms of Google.com, which has actually been growing faster than the other properties and has a higher CPC, so that actually puts a little bit of upward pressure on CPC.  

On the other hand, with that AdSense for Content, we're adding a lot of social network-type traffic in, particularly with the MySpace deal. So that puts downward pressure on the dynamic.  

There's also a lot of other dynamics, particularly during the holidays, where the advertisers are searching very aggressively for more keywords that can allow them to get more leads. When they do that, they tend to find some of the previously undiscovered keywords, so they get lower CPC keywords.  

So there's a whole combination there. There's no data that suggests that on an apples-to-apples basis, we are seeing a decline in CPCs of like keywords. So those are the other dynamics that make the equation work out with respect to the 22% versus the 19%.  

George, if you wanted to address maybe the contra-revenue items?  

GEORGE REYES: Sure. So basically, we had a very good session with our Ernst & Young accounting firm, and this was back a few months ago. And we clearly agreed with their position that these Google Checkout transactions were going to be accounted as contra-revenue. And that is the appropriate GAAP accounting treatment for it. So that is why we have shared that with you.  

ANTHONY NOTO: Could you give us a sense of the magnitude?  

GEORGE REYES: At this point, it's on the order of magnitude of 1% or thereabouts.  

ANTHONY NOTO: So it hurt your sequential growth sequentially by 1%? Or 1% of your total revenue?  

GEORGE REYES: The latter.  

OPERATOR: Mark Mahaney, Citigroup.  

MARK MAHANEY, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Also want to follow up on Google Checkout. Could you talk about -- you talked a little bit about the cost. Can you talk about the returns you're seeing on Checkout in particularly two areas -- to what extent you've seen merchants spend more with Google because of the facilitation this has had of their e-commerce business, or what impact it's had on users in terms of their willingness to chase the badge or to look at Checkout promotions and to take advantage of those opportunities?  

SERGEY BRIN: This is Sergey. I don't have data on the first of your questions, but on the latter, we know that users are drawn to Checkout badges. There are varying implementations, and in some cases, as long as we make it clear enough to users that Google Checkout is there and they can more efficiently complete their transaction, we've seen substantial increases in their likelihood of both clicking on the ad and then subsequently a significant improvement on the conversion rate.  

Jonathan, do you want to add anything to that?  

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: Sure. Basically, the dynamic, since we are in many cases increasing the click-through rate for the advertisers, they're basically getting better ROI, and they're also lowering their transaction processing costs. So there's a couple of dynamics that create a pretty significant incentive for them.  

They're also, I think, discovering that Checkout facilitates the buying process, which means more sales for them. So basically, most of them are beginning to kind of think about Google as a sales channel rather than a marketing expense. And since what they care about is conversions, we expect that they will continue to invest in channels that help them increase their conversions.  

And most of the data that we're hearing from the vast majority of the partners would so indicate. I think we actually just announced today the addition of Blue Nile. So we are continuing to see very positive growth, particularly with the larger online retailers.  

OPERATOR: Brian Pitz, Banc of America.  

BRIAN PITZ, ANALYST, BANC OF AMERICA: A couple questions on mobile. You have made a number of mobile acquisitions, such as Android and Dodgeball, over the past year. Any information you could share with us in terms of new product launches around mobile?  

And secondly, thoughts on when mobile may actually be somewhat of an impactful revenue driver -- will we see anything in '07, or is this more of an '08 story and beyond? And maybe if you could even talk about the split of revenue -- is it going to be fee based, mainly advertising, we understand, but do you foresee any fee-based revenue in there as well for content?  

ERIC SCHMIDT: This is Eric. And it is clear that 2007 will be the year that mobile search query traffic grows substantially. Our current model is to use targeted text ads. And we have evidence that the monetization of those ads is higher than in non-mobile uses. So it looks like the advertising revenue on a per-search query is likely to be significantly higher on mobile than on non-mobile.  

As part of that, we are investing in new categories of using mobile devices. For example, YouTube content is being used and can be viewed on mobile devices in various partnerships that we're doing. Those are as much opportunistic for us, and they're not really driving revenue yet, although in theory, you could imagine a combination of video, video advertising on a mobile phone that would have the best entertainment value, but also very, very high monetization rates.  

We're unlikely to split it out. It's not material today in a financial sense. And more importantly, it's still emerging. We are making a significant investment in technology around mobile because of the growth rate of mobile and the ultimate scale of that business. You won't really see its financial impact until '08.  

OPERATOR: (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS). Robert Peck, Bear, Stearns.  

ROBERT PECK, ANALYST, BEAR, STEARNS: Congratulations, guys. A quick question here on YouTube. One, could you just maybe give us a feel for what the revenue run rate is and what was in the quarter and the margins on it.  

And number two, could you comment a little bit about what Chad spoke about over the weekend, talking about revenue share -- how exactly would that work with both the content owner and the publisher, even touching on audio fingerprints, and also on how you're going to stop uploading copywriting content.  

ERIC SCHMIDT: So it's really a bunch of questions about how YouTube is working. We don't break out the YouTube revenue separately. Our primary focus with YouTube right now is user adoption. We are experimenting with various advertising models. User adoption and advertising are growing very quickly.  

So it looks like early returns, about the justification around the acquisition, the calculations that we did -- all look very positive to us. We are very, very, very pleased.  

As part of that, we are running YouTube separately. Chad, of course, is both the founder and a brilliant leader, and he has been pushing very hard for the development of a model where ultimately the people who produce the content in fact do get some revenue coming back in various forms of sharing.  

We don't have a formal program around that, but you should expect this year we will begin to offer such programs. So the combination of the ability to share revenue with content partners -- and again, we're doing that both with traditional partners, but also with a new, emergent category, which we are very excited about -- who are all on YouTube. The combination of the two could ultimately be a very significant large business for us. It is too early to know exactly when.  

With respect to things like the fingerprinting, one of the things that we are very concerned about is we want to respect the copyright ownership, especially the ownership issues and the authors of copyrighted works. We are in development of a number of technologies that will help us there -- audio fingerprinting, various video fingerprinting. It's in various stages of being rolled out. That is an area of big research in the computer science community and also a significant investment here at Google.  

BRIAN PITZ: And just on the advertising, Eric, how do you envision that? Is it more of a two-second roll? Is it a 30-second roll, or is it just a display ad near it? How should we think about it?  

ERIC SCHMIDT: The true answer is we are going to experiment with different alternatives. Pre-rolls have historically not made sense, and there's some evidence that the traditional pre-rolls people have done have not worked. But we are certainly looking at alternatives and variants on the pre-role as well as post-roll, and also as in-context advertising.  

The real value we found with people who have produced copyrighted work and the reason that they want to talk to us and want to work with us is we're talking to their fans. And we know who those fans are, and those fans come to them for the copyrighted information. And that is a highly monetizable base, and that's very attractive to the copyright holder.  

OPERATOR: Mary Meeker, Morgan Stanley.  

DAVE JOSEPH, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: It is Dave Joseph asking for both of us. Just a really quick question -- can you talk a little bit about the dMarc betas that I believe wrapped up during the quarter for radio and print ads? From what we heard, they were pretty successful and that they even ended early. And I was wondering what the next steps there might be and whether this might even be a revenue generator in 2007.  

OMID KORDESTANI, SVP OF GLOBAL SALES AND OPERATIONS, GOOGLE INC.: This is Omid Kordestani. Audio is one of the several initiatives, new initiatives we are pursuing in the advertising area, as well as inventory acquisition. And we are working hard on integrating the product functionality, the campaign management tools as well as the buildout of the sales force and the partnership teams to acquire the proper amount of inventory.  

So again, it is early to tell on most of these initiatives, their full impact on the financials, but we're making great progress with both the advertisers and the pursuit of great partnerships for inventory.  

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: This is Jonathan. The only data that I guess I would add -- it was pretty robust in terms of scope with respect to the radio station affiliates. I believe we had over 700 radio stations in more than 200 metros in the network. So the scope was pretty significant.  

OPERATOR: Safa Rashtchy, Piper Jaffray.  

SAFA RASHTCHY, ANALYST, PIPER JAFFRAY: Congratulations on a great quarter. Could you talk about your partnerships? Eric, you mentioned that these are starting to bear fruit. Could you give us some additional color to help us kind of gauge that performance?  

If you look at the AdSense revenue, the growth of course is very strong, but hasn't been accelerating. Where are you in terms of in your cycle in reaping the profits from these partnerships? If I can give you a quick example, last year you increased monetization and we saw some really big improvements in your Q3 results and then kind of started to slow down. So can you give us a sense of where we are in terms of the benefits you could get from these new partnerships?  

OMID KORDESTANI: This is Omid. Thank you for the comments. In general, we are very pleased with the broad activity we have, both in terms of direct partnerships that we establish with the major content or search partners, as well as our online network. And on the advertising -- AdSense search front, some of the major partnerships are really in place already worldwide. And we are actively either pursuing the renewals or some of the few that we don't have, we are obviously very interested in pursuing.  

And so I think you'll see a lot of stability there. There's actually some nice growth with some of these partners that are doing a lot of work in improving their search functionality and using either our services or their own, but using our monetization.  

In the case of the content, we're doing a lot to just improve the quality of the content network. So we undertook initiatives that on the one hand improved the way we monetize the advertising on those content sites. On the other hand, the landing page quality had an impact, where some of -- it limited the performance in the networks. So the two had a counteracting effect.  

So I think that's what you're seeing -- you're just seeing a stability on the search front, and on the content side, our improvements in the quality is affecting that and again making it really stable instead of seeing a dramatic increase. But in terms of the coverage, we are doing really great.  

ERIC SCHMIDT: We saw significant revenue growth in our revenue partnerships -- non-Google.com partnerships -- in the quarter. And we anticipate that that will continue.  

OPERATOR: Ben Schachter, UBS.  

BEN SCHACHTER, ANALYST, UBS: I was wondering if you could give us an update on your interest in health care. You've been more vocal about intentions there, and I was wondering if you can perhaps quantify the type of investment you might make in that space and over what time horizon.  

And then also, George, last year, one of the few numbers you gave some guidance on was that CapEx would grow faster than revenue. I was wondering if you could quantify what you're expecting CapEx to look like?  

SERGEY BRIN: On the health care -- this is Sergey -- I just want to highlight our interest in health care is primarily driven by requests we have gotten with a number of both government NGOs and commercial entities, and seeing if there could be the kind of IT improvements in health care that we have seen in search on the Web with Google.  

And we view health as very important. We'd like to contribute to that. It is not something that we are thinking of as -- it's not something that we're looking to drive the P&L or whatnot. It is more about what can we do to contribute to that community. And it is too early to say exactly what that might be. We are still investigating where we can make the most useful contribution.  

ERIC SCHMIDT: On the CapEx side, as long as we have a healthy, vibrant, growing business like we have today, we have no choice but to continue to invest in CapEx because it just regenerates more competitive advantage for us.  

OPERATOR: Imran Khan, JPMorgan.  

IMRAN KHAN, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: A question about your globalization, and I think you get 75% of the revenue, almost, from U.S. and UK. I was wondering if you could give us some sense in terms of monetization of queries, difference, if not quantitatively, maybe qualitatively, between U.S., UK and maybe continental Europe?  

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: This is Jonathan. The UK has been traditionally very, very strong, in fact, in some cases, stronger than in the continental United States. We do see this odd dynamic, particularly seasonally in the UK in the fourth quarter, where they kind of have the reverse effect than they do in the U.S., and we have talked about that in some previous calls. A lot of it just relates to the fact that they plan vacations a lot earlier. So travel and also the finance vertical tend to be a little less robust.  

When you move to the continent, the monetization does go down modestly, but in some of the areas where we have been -- where the ad systems have been for at least a few years, it's still very high, such as Germany. But beyond that, we haven't really broken out any color in terms of rank order of monetization.  

ERIC SCHMIDT: My general comment is that people are pretty much the same all around the world and that the differences that you see are really a function of both GDP growth, broadband penetration, the development rate -- where they are in e-commerce. The UK performance has always been strong and is probably true for many, many companies. And partly that is because of the nature of the decisions that were made five or 10 years ago in the United Kingdom.  

There's every reason to believe that the similar structure in all of the countries that you listed, for example, in Western Europe, are working very, very hard to adopt the same broadband policies, electronic commerce policies and so forth. And in many of those countries we appear to have even higher market share than we do in the UK. And so we should see significant positive results as a result.  

OPERATOR: Jordan Rohan, RBC Capital Markets.  

JORDAN ROHAN, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: It has been reported in the past, right before you purchased YouTube or made the announcement of your intention to purchase YouTube, that YouTube actually cut some deals with Universal, Sony and Bertelsmann's BMG and Warner Music Group. How are those deals accounted for in terms of content licensees? In which line of the income statement might they be? And can you give us some idea if the rumored $50 million in total amount that was reported is in the right ballpark?  

ERIC SCHMIDT: We're not going to comment on specific rumors. The deals that you're referring to were done prior to the closing of the acquisition and they were accounted for in the acquisition accounting, essentially.  

YouTube is busy doing a whole bunch of interesting deals, which we will account for in the proper way as they get signed. But I would prefer that we not comment on any of the specific rumors during that time. It was important that the content deals that they did be done at the time so that we had clear issues with respect to copyright and so forth. And they were very, very strategic for both us and for YouTube.  

OPERATOR: Justin Post, Merrill Lynch.  

JUSTIN POST, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: Could you help us understand your view on when you extend the Google ad platform to traditional media, what are some of the advantages you provide to advertisers? Is it going to be broader reach, better measurement, from pricing advantages? What do you see as your real advantage there as you enter traditional media going forward?  

OMID KORDESTANI: This is Omid Kordestani. Our focus really is to really provide the widest reach possible, as well as the most efficient way to manage these campaigns across media. And we're seeing already some of the early benefits of that. Last quarter, there were companies, our customers like Volio, P&G and OfficeMax, as an example, that took advantage of our rich media-based advertising, both image ads and video ads.  

Just to give you a sense of this, one of our advertisers, Volvo, went into their content network. They created several custom channels to reach their specific target market, then they used local ad targeting, again, to refine it on a more geographic basis.  

With P&G, they had a very humorous and fun, click-to-play video advertising, and that the fine-tuning that they could do with the online campaign at a moment's notice was really, really attractive to them.  

In the case of OfficeMax, they actually created a micro-site in Google Video and then they syndicated their advertising to their content network through 6000 sites. So it's really the power of this advertising platform and the publisher platform that lets the advertisers have a lot of control, take advantage of the wide audience, target it properly, and now use different ad formats, depending on their marketing objectives.  

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: This is Jonathan, just adding a couple of comments. If you think about accountability and enabling measurement for radio, one of the things that we provide is real-time reports on exactly where the ad played and when it played. These are things that sound simple, but they are a pretty huge improvement over the way traditional radio reports, which aren't otherwise available until 12 weeks after the ads run, had previously played out.  

The same thing is true of some of the efforts that we're doing in print with a bunch of the newspapers right now. It's much, much easier to bring automation and efficiency with the platform that we have and with the advertisers that we have in terms of getting a dashboard -- the kind of a dashboard that most CMOs would like with respect to their campaign performance across all of the available media.  

OPERATOR: Christa Quarles, Thomas Weisel Partners.  

CHRISTA QUARLES, ANALYST, THOMAS WEISEL PARTNERS: First, you mentioned that Asia was starting to show some measure of performance. I was wondering if you could give us the percentage of the mix of internationally.  

And the second is, I guess, more of a philosophical question with regard to YouTube in that you are keeping Google Video as a search destination, I guess, but could YouTube ultimately become your destination media brand? And how do you think about that in terms of the broader context of media, and would you start getting into content, or would you only see yourselves in revenue share? I'm just trying to get a philosophical view there.  

ERIC SCHMIDT: On the question of the international revenue, we typically don't break that sort of stuff out.  

On the question of YouTube, we're pushing very, very hard for the success of YouTube as a brand. It has tremendous traction with the demographic that we care about. An awful lot of people are now using YouTube every day in their daily lives. Larry?  

LARRY PAGE: I think I alluded to this in my remarks, but I think we're taking our time to do the integration so that we preserve the value both of Google Video and of YouTube. And we're starting to provide some integration there. But I think it is likely over time that we will continue to have both Google branding and YouTube branding.  

And I think also, there will be a lot of new things that happen in those areas and innovation. I don't think in general, you will see us -- we have not traditionally hired lots of people to make content. We have instead relied on getting a huge number of users to all the content in the world and in getting them to that seamlessly. And I think we will still try to continue to do that.  

OPERATOR: Heath Terry, Credit Suisse.  

HEATH TERRY, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: There's been a lot written in the press about the form that advertising on YouTube is going to take over time. And I was wondering if you could just talk us through what your vision is for how that is going to develop?  

ERIC SCHMIDT: As I indicated in my earlier question and answer, we are going to experiment with a number of such approaches. There are a couple of things that we now know. We know the people who use YouTube are very fanatical about it. And in particular, if they're looking at content which is copyrighted or related to a copyrighted character, we know that that person is somebody who the copyright owner is trying to reach. So the first thing that we can do is we can connect the copyright owner with the end user.  

We can also do advertising. And we can do advertising both as pre-roll, post-roll, but we can also do something else -- we can do contextual advertising around the content in various ways.  

So these are all combinations that we're experimenting with. We are encouraging copyright owners to submit content to us and then to measure how many fans, how many tremendous viewers, what that community is -- that's a very, very qualified viewer.  

And we believe ultimately, we will develop partnerships in advertising along the lines that Omid suggested, many of which are very unusual. In addition to being the list that I just suggested, there will be all sorts of ways of linking our advertising system and the advertising system of our partners so that they can do very, very interesting ways with the communities that have developed around powerful entertainment characters and content.  

OPERATOR: Youssef Squali, Jefferies & Co.  

YOUSSEF SQUALI, ANALYST, JEFFERIES & CO.: George, your traffic acquisition cost for the quarter was about 81% of your network revenue. That's about 300 basis points increase if you compare it to last year. I'm assuming that's the net effect of AOL, MySpace and eBay deals, among others, kind of kicking in. Is that the new level we should act as a base going forward?  

And second, can you help us understand the size and growth of your display ad business? Is it at 10% revenue yet? We have heard pretty positive feedback on it lately, particularly on the placement targeting function. So just if we can get a couple comments there.  

ERIC SCHMIDT: I think Omid is probably better equipped to answer that one question. I'm sorry, what was your first question?  

We have seen TAC increase a bit, and it's all a function of the types of deals we are doing. And there's nothing nefarious about it. It's just a trend in our business. Omid?  

OMID KORDESTANI: On the breakout, we don't really have any official breakouts from Google directly. According to a third party taking measurements on this, there's over 25% of the top 100 advertisers are now consistently running display and video ads with Google, and these are some of the advantages I mentioned, just a variety of formats, the access to the way they can target different content channels to reach their audience, both domestically and globally.  

And really, advertisers are experimenting with as. And more and more, we are in the regular CMO meetings across the world, led by the U.S. efforts and now being replicated across the world. So I'm very pleased with this performance, and we're putting a lot of resources behind it to basically be present in front of these customers and in all of our field operations across the globe.  

OPERATOR: Doug Anmuth, Lehman Brothers.  

DOUG ANMUTH, ANALYST, LEHMAN BROTHERS: Larry and Sergey, you mentioned a number of drivers of monetization during the quarter, but unless I missed it, I don't think you talked about personalization. And I think that is an area you started to experiment with more during the quarter. So could you talk about what you are seeing in terms of the early returns with personalizing search, and then how you view ranking there as a monetization driver going forward? And then can you also give us a rough sense of what percentage of your users actually sign in when searching?  

LARRY PAGE: I think we're very excited about personalization. Actually, in my comments, I mentioned personalized homepages and so on and use of gadgets there, which we have been really excited about our growth in those areas and the usage of those products and how excited users are about them. And I think we have a ways to go in really promoting those features. We're starting to really get very healthy usage. But it's not that obvious to me when I go to Google how to get to those things, and so I think we've got a lot more growth in store.  

And also the quality improvements we get with personalized search are also quite significant, and we're very excited about that, and then that driving more search and more monetization and so on. So I think overall, I think we're very excited about personalization. We've had a lot of significant traction in terms of users and we have a lot more opportunity in terms of promoting those very useful functionality to our huge base of users.  

OPERATOR: Paul Keung, CIBC World Markets.  

PAUL KEUNG, ANALYST, CIBC WORLD MARKETS: The third-party data suggests that the paid click international market is growing significantly faster than the U.S. So I was curious how big is that gap for you, international/U.S., in terms of the paid clicks? And is that a gap that has been widening in recent quarters?  

ERIC SCHMIDT: Again, you are referring to growth rate of advertising revenue, international versus --  

PAUL KEUNG: Page clicks -- no, not the revenues, but the clicks themselves.  

ERIC SCHMIDT: The clicks themselves, Jonathan?  

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: Specifically the question is, what percentage have the clicks grown disproportionally outside the U.S.? I'm not sure I can give you the percentage there.  

PAUL KEUNG: Just some color would be good. Relatively, how significant is the difference?  

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: I'm not sure how much color I can give you. There's not question that we're doing very well from a market share perspective internationally. We're doing even better internationally than we are doing domestically, where we are doing very, very well. And the relative growth rates are bigger internationally in the emerging markets where the ad systems are launched.  

ERIC SCHMIDT: It's actually a series of compounding. The Internet is growing faster outside the United States than in the U.S. Our advertising systems are growing faster outside the United States than in the U.S. And the monetization improvement from a low base is growing faster outside the U.S. than in the U.S.  

And having said that, our advertising and user traffic growth are growing very well in the United States. So it's hard to know how big a gap -- they are all doing well, international better than the U.S., for a multiplicity of factors.  

OPERATOR: Mark May, Needham & Co.  

MARK MAY, ANALYST, NEEDHAM & CO.: In your prepared remarks, you discuss your efforts to build an ad platform that serves all types of advertisers. You mentioned radio or audio, print and video, which most people assume you're talking about YouTube and Google Video.  

TV advertising was not specifically listed. The question is do you see the traditional TV ad market as one that you would like to serve? And if so, is the opportunity in TV advertising part of your current efforts at YouTube and Google Video? Or might TV be an opportunity that is somewhat different than what you're currently developing or pursuing at those two units?  

ERIC SCHMIDT: Thank you for that final question. We have already said that we are experimenting with traditional television advertising. It is fair to say that whatever we do will be new and different from the way it is currently sold and marketed. So you should think of us as experimenting, using our targeting technology and our tremendous reach to see if we can improve what is already a good and robust business that others are in.  

With respect to television/radio/video advertising, there are many reasons to believe that the targeting technology that we have invented can really apply well, that people will pay -- advertisers in particular will pay much higher rates for ads that are targeted than ones that are untargeted.  

So for example, set-top boxes can help you target to end users and the set-top boxes are now IP addressable. So there's a lot of evidence that as we link our systems into the systems of people who are operators, we can get another leg up on targeting and ultimately provide both a more useful advertising experience for the end user and also a better advertising experience for the advertiser themselves in terms of conversion.  

So with that, Kim, it sounds like we should wrap up. I wanted to thank everybody again. We are very, very pleased with what is going on at Google. The systems that we have talked about, the approach that we're taking, the investment that we are taking both in terms of people as well as capital, the globalization of the business, the expansion of the business into advertising, into radio and television, as was just asked, the expansion into new platforms such as mobile -- the sum of those are very, very exciting and we believe will be very impactful for the Company going forward. Kim?  

KIM JABAL: I think that is it. Thank you.  

OPERATOR: Thank you, everyone. That does conclude today's conference. You may now disconnect.  

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]  

   CO
goog : Google Inc.
   IN
i8395464 : Internet Search Engines | iint : Internet/Online Services
   NS
c15 : Performance | c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe
   PUB
Voxant, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020070207e31v002be
  


 HD
 Q3  2006 Google Earnings Conference Call - Final  
   WC
9,944 words
   PD
19 October 2006
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.    

   LP
OPERATOR: Good day, and welcome to the Google, Inc. conference call. This call is being recorded. At this time I would like to turn the call over to Ms. Kim Jabal, Director of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.  

KIM JABAL, DIRECTOR OF IR, GOOGLE, INC.: Hello, everyone, and welcome to our third-quarter 2006 earnings call. On the call with us today are Eric Schmidt, Chief Executive Officer; George Reyes, Chief Financial Officer; Larry Page, Founder and President of Products; Sergey Brin, Founder and President of Technology; Jonathan Rosenberg, Senior Vice President of Product Management; and Omid Kordestani, Senior Vice President of Global Sales and Business Development. Eric, George, Larry and Sergey will provide some thoughts on the quarter and then we will have Jonathan and Omid join us for your questions.  

   TD
This call is being webcast from our Investor Relations website. Our press release, issued a few minutes ago, is now posted on the website, as well as presentation slides that will provide further details on the quarter. A replay of this call will be available within a few hours.  

Some of the comments we will make today are forward-looking, including statements regarding future product innovations, the prospects for growth in online advertising, traffic and users, the seasonality of our business, the accounting treatment for fees related to our distribution deals, the growth of our operating and capital expenditures, possible future compression in our margin, our hiring patterns, our expected tax rate for 2006, our planned acquisition of YouTube and expected benefits from ad quality initiatives. These statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated by these forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include a variety of factors, some of which are beyond our control. These forward-looking statements speak as of today and you should not rely on them as representing our views in the future. And we undertake no obligation to update these statements after this call.  

Please refer to our SEC filings, including our report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2006 as well as our earnings release posted a few minutes ago on our website for a more detailed description of the risk factors that may affect our results. Copies of these documents may be obtained from the SEC or by visiting the Investor Relations section of our website.  

Also, please note that certain financial measures we use on this call, such as EPS, net income, operating margin, operating income and free cash flow, will be expressed on a non-GAAP basis and have been adjusted to exclude charges related to stock-based compensation, or SBC, and with respect to non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP EPS for the second quarter 2006 that gains from the sale of our investment in [Bydo].  

We also report our GAAP results as well as provide non-GAAP results on a supplemental basis in our earnings release. Reconciliations of all non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP financial measures are also included in the earnings release, which may be obtained by visiting the Investor Relations section of our website.  

And with that, I'd like to turn the call over to Eric.  

ERIC SCHMIDT, CEO, GOOGLE, INC.: Well, thank you very much, Kim, and thanks to all of you for spending your afternoon or evening with us. Business is very, very good here at Google, and we had an excellent quarter in all respects, especially including international.  

Five things came together again when I look at our quarter. We have strong user growth; we have improvements in search, search quality, larger information indices, all the things that end users care about. We had much better ads quality and improved advertising products across the many advertisers we serve. The diversity of our business, its international component, the multimarket component, the combination of what users, advertisers and publishers want -- that diversity served us very well. And of course the blizzard of new product launches, unprecedented for our scale and confusing to almost everyone, seems to create new opportunities for us every day.  

And partnerships -- something we talked about last quarter -- each one defining a new and important market for us. Started of course with the Dell deal in Q2, where we got better access for end users to Google, followed by the Adobe deal, better integration of high-quality graphics in Google. Followed then by eBay, integration with Skype and bringing international advertisers into the fold.  

Intuit -- advertising services to medium and small businesses that we couldn't otherwise reach or could not serve as well. MTV Networks -- video distribution and video ad targeting and syndication, bringing in a whole new way in which we can make money for content video publishers.  

Fox MySpace -- search and advertising partner with us for the fastest-growing social network. And of course, culminating last week with the YouTube acquisition, sort of the ultimate partnership, if you will, recognizing the fundamental importance of video of all types.  

The sum of these five things -- users, adds, the diversity of our business, the blizzard of new product launches, and the partnership strategy which is in full force, has delivered great, great results and we're very, very pleased with them.  

George, maybe you could take us through the details and all the questions people ask.  

GEORGE REYES, SVP, CFO , GOOGLE, INC.: Sure. Good afternoon, everybody, and thanks, Eric. I will be brief today, as I'd like to really get into the details of our quarter.  

Gross revenue the quarter was $2.7 billion, reflecting growth of 70% over Q3 of last year. Google.com revenue was $1.6 billion, representing an increasing percentage of our total revenue at 60% and growth of 84% year-over-year.  

As we have previously discussed, Q2 and Q3 are typically seasonal quarters for us, with somewhat weaker traffic growth offset by higher monetization. This year, the seasonal trend was slightly dampened in Q3 with stronger than anticipated traffic on Google.com. As with previous years, however, monetization gains were the primary driver of sequential revenue growth.  

In our AdSense businesses, where we experienced a more typical seasonal growth trend, revenue growth was driven primarily by monetization gains and search and traffic gains and content and by the addition of new partners across the board, practically internationally. Revenue from the U.S. was $1.5 billion, driven by higher than expected traffic growth and continued monetization gains. International growth was very strong in Q3 as well.  

Our largest European markets, the UK and Germany, performed very well, as did many other countries throughout the world, including the Netherlands, Spain, France, Italy, Canada, and Australia. While still a small percentage of our overall revenues, many of our emerging markets, most notably India and Brazil, are growing at very high rates as well. We do expect historic seasonal trends in Q4 to continue, where the growth in the U.S. has typically been greater than internationally. This is largely attributable to more pronounced effects of the holiday season in the U.S.  

Turning to traffic acquisition costs, or TAC, they were $825 million. The majority of TAC expenses is related to the amounts ultimately paid to our AdSense partners, which totaled $780 million in the quarter. TAC also consists of amounts ultimately paid to certain distribution partners, which totaled $45 million in the third quarter. We expect that in the future, substantially all fees related to distribution partnerships will be recognized as TAC, as we are better able to estimate the useful life of access points and better able to match costs to revenues earned.  

Turning to operating expenses, operating expenses included $98 million in stock-based compensation and totaled $710 million. These expenses included $382 million in payroll-related and facilities expense and $50 million in advertising and promotional expenses, which includes $14 million related to certain distribution deals. We expect operating expenses to increase in the future as we continue to hire aggressively and invest in marketing programs.  

Non-GAAP operating profit, which excludes stock-based compensation, grew to over $1 billion with non-GAAP operating margins of 38%, up slightly from Q2. However, as we have previously discussed, margins may decline as we continue to hire aggressively and make significant investments in the business.  

In Q3, CapEx totaled $492 million, the majority of which was related to IT infrastructure investments, including data centers, servers, and networking equipment. As usual, we carefully and prudently evaluate capital expenditures and believe that the long-term benefits justify these up front investments.  

As we have noted previously, CapEx growth would be substantially greater than the annual rate of revenue growth in 2006, and we continue to anticipate this going into Q4.  

Now turning to cash, we continue to generate strong cash flow from operations at $1 billion. And free cash flow, a non-GAAP measure, which we define as cash flow from operations, less CapEx, increased to $512 million. Our effective tax rate was 29% for the third quarter. We currently anticipate that our effective tax rate for the full year will be at or below 30%.  

Our headcount at September 30 was 9378 employees, an increase of 1436 employees over Q2 levels. We expect to continue to hire aggressively around the world in Q4 across all functions.  

In closing, we're delighted to report a very strong quarter with very healthy growth across the board.  

Now I will turn it over to Larry for more comments on our accomplishments in the quarter.  

SERGEY BRIN, CO-FOUNDER AND PRESIDENT OF TECHNOLOGY, GOOGLE, INC.: : This is Sergey here. We just juggled things with Larry. Sorry to surprise you.  

Anyhow, we have been working hard to improve our search experience over the past quarter, as we do all quarters. And in this past quarter, I am proud to say we have made them significantly fresher and more comprehensive.  

This has been a combination of both core infrastructure work as well as some of the visible features that you can see. With Webmaster Central, webmasters can submit information to us about their site. They can tell us when things get updated. They get information back from us about some of our crawling patterns and so forth. And the upshot is that this improves their sites as well as our coverage, a great win-win.  

On the subject of coverage, there has been a really significant change on Google News, where now you can search not just the current news but archives going back 200 years. And I encourage you to give it a try. You can see lots of fantastical historical times, as reported by the news right there and then.  

When I perform a search, I often find that the best answer is not necessarily a web page. And I know that sounds like hearsay from Google. But in fact, if you are learning a sport, if you want to build a house, if you want to study a science, often videos are the best medium to learn how to do -- to learn about those things, to learn how to do those things. And this has obviously been a significant initiative for us.  

And I am speaking about both Google Video, which we have developed over the past few quarters or so, as well as obviously -- you have heard about YouTube, which we announced our intent to acquire. Both of those together are going to really help get more video to more users and providing them with better information to large classes of their kinds of search queries.  

Over the past quarter, we also have worked to better integrate our products together. And we want to make them more useful to organizations such as businesses, universities, families even. And I am speaking primarily of course about Google Apps for Your Domain. That combines Gmail, which is the number one used portion of that, but also Google Talk and Calendar, and they all work together on your own particular domain, whether it is .com, .org, .edu. And that's gotten great uptake, and people are really happy about it.  

Now it is also going to soon include a couple more products, which the two of them have together, going to integrate them now, and I'm talking about docs and spreadsheets. These are apps that allow users to create, store, share, and publish both documents as well as spreadsheets online. We have been using these in-house internally for a while ourselves, and we have been really using them a lot.  

It is pretty amazing. If you are sitting there, you're either reading or even editing a document and you can see as your colleagues edit them right before your eyes simultaneously. It is really a powerful feature, and it is really an easy way to collaborate.  

Anyhow, these are just a few highlights of what we've done over the past quarter. And for some more highlights, let me turn it over to Larry.  

LARRY PAGE, CO-FOUNDER AND PRESIDENT OF PRODUCTS, GOOGLE, INC.: Thank you, Sergey. Well, I am very excited about the results this quarter too, and I would like to talk to you briefly about our advertising, both its breadth and depth and growth.  

Google's business strengths really lies in the breadth of our advertiser base. We arguably have the greatest diversity of advertisers of any company in the world, from small to medium to large, across almost every vertical and across hundreds of countries. We want to be the easiest company in the world for advertisers to do business with. We are making it easier for small customers to get started while working with larger customers to develop more complex, integrated advertising campaigns across search, display, video, and soon audio. We see tremendous opportunities for innovation here.  

This quarter, we partnered with Intuit to make AdWords Starter Edition Maps and Base easily available to Intuit's millions of QuickBooks users. We wanted to make it easier for them to advertise and find customers online, as well as make their information and products and services available on the Internet.  

We also launched coupons on Google Maps, and we hope it will be an appealing genre for our smaller and mid-sized advertisers. And we teamed up with ValPak to provide coupons from current ValPak advertisers.  

Over half of local businesses don't have websites yet, based on the estimates we see and our local business center helps those businesses easily create a Web presence where they can advertise online.  

Let me switch gears for a second and talk about larger advertisers. For those larger advertisers, we offer an integrated solution for direct response and branding. This solution provides an always-on platform that allows them to efficiently market all of their products and services, not just a select few.  

Google has always been about intelligent targeting, that's probably what you know about from our Search app., and putting ads in front of users when they're most interested in a certain product or service, and we apply this philosophy across all of our advertising format. We started with our text-based ads, and then contextual ads, and now we are working on mobile local video, radio, and prints products. Our increasing penetration of the Ad Age 100 and continually growing advertiser budgets confirmed that our approach here is working.  

Let me tell you a little bit about Google Checkout. We launched Google Checkout and our goal is really to improve the purchasing experience for users and deliver higher conversion rates for advertisers. We are making steady progress here with strong growth in the number of both buyers and sellers. And we continue to penetrate the top 500 U.S. online retailers.  

You can now search in Froogle for Checkout-enabled merchants, and this is a feature I find really useful when I buy things online. In seconds, really anyone can purchase from a wide variety of online retailers with Google Checkout.  

Now Sergey mentioned earlier all the things we do to satisfy users and our commitment to help them extend their lives online. The economic success we continue to enjoy is the direct result of our ability to marry our user experience to the information that advertisers want to communicate. By delivering comprehensive advertising solutions for small and large advertisers and continually improving ad quality, we create a better user experience and a more effective advertising result. Together, these results have really led to the outstanding results that we are extremely happy to report this quarter.  

And now, I will pass it back to Eric.  

ERIC SCHMIDT: Thanks very much, Larry. A couple of final points to make. We are very much in a search business. We understand and we believe that people's information and the information they want to receive will be consistent and needs to be accessible when and where they want it, for them in a very personalized way. And that information will deliver them across many different devices in many ways and they will want to consume it. But the content or information will always be the same -- consistent for the user or the person.  

The interesting thing is that this approach to having your information personalized is a benefit not only for the user who continue to refine and target information, which is what we're working on, to people in a very personalized way, but also for businesses who want to know they're spending their money in an effective and targeted way.  

We also believe at Google that we are more effective when we partner. Partnerships are a huge benefit, not just for Google but also for whoever the partner is, as we highlighted earlier. We see impressive growth in the area of partnering with existing and new kind companies from content technology and advertising perspectives we have laid the groundwork for many more coming. This industry is clearly poised for growth, and this is still the early stages of something which is likely to be a very major transformational industry.  

As we continue to innovate and bring out these new products, we'll also continue to take our feedback from end users and customers and improve the experiences, bringing the most personalized and targeted information to people, which is ultimately our mission.  

These new partnerships and as we explore these new ways of working -- our learning and feedback from others -- users and customers continue, and this allows us to constantly and consistently innovate and to improve organizing the world's information. Sharing that innovation and expertise with our users and customers will continue to provide access to the world's information while we organize it in a very personalized and targeted way. That benefit drives the entire cycle of Google, and it's fundamental.  

With that, let's add Omid Kordestani, Senior Vice President Worldwide Business Operations and Sales and Jonathan Rosenberg, Senior Vice President, Products.  

KIM JABAL: Operator, could we go to questions, please?  

OPERATOR: Absolutely. (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS). Mark Mahaney, Citigroup.  

MARK MAHANEY, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Eric, at the beginning, you talked about the blizzard of new launches, product launches, and you mentioned some of the confusion around that. Can you just talk about whether you need to realign or if you are trying to realign the product strategy somewhat in order to whittle down some of that confusion? And a really quick cash question -- can you use cash in the future to make acquisitions? You are using your stock for the YouTube deal. Clearly, the stock seems to be undervalued. Wouldn't it be more ideal if you could give cash for those deals? Thank you.  

ERIC SCHMIDT: On the cash side, I will have George discuss that as a strategy. From the standpoint of products, our innovation engine is producing products at a rate that I have never seen before. We run under the 70/20/10 principal that we have talked about for a long time. Sergey has been leading an initiative which he calls features, not products. Sergey, maybe you want to talk a little bit about that?  

SERGEY BRIN: Yes, exactly. What we are concerned about is that if we continue to develop so many new individual products that are all their assorted silos, you will have to essentially search for our products before you can even use them. And then you will have to search before you can do a search in many cases.  

Instead what we're doing now is we are trying to create the horizontal functionality across a range of products, across media types and so forth.  

For example, well, I mentioned already Google Apps for Your Domain, and that in a sense is a product, but really it just combines a whole bunch of other offerings together, seamlessly integrated together so they can work well for an organization.  

Another example which we haven't gotten quite up and running yet -- but, when you want to share your documents or your pictures or your videos, it would be nice to have the exact same way to share all those things -- to have all that functionality available across all of those media types in the identical way rather than developing sort of one-offs for each of those products.  

There's a whole set of initiatives that's now going on in the Company to make our product offerings simpler and more consistent for all of our users.  

And finally, let me just touch on search. You may have noticed more and more now when you do search you will see for example, images, and news stories and products kind of across the top that you can click to. And there are increasingly many ways that we are integrating together all of our search offerings so you don't have to pick where you're going to search first. But we are going to give you the best possible information from all of our corpora.  

ERIC SCHMIDT: George?  

GEORGE REYES: Mark, with respect to the stock transaction, I think you should think of this as a one-off one time that we did. And going forward we're going to use cash.  

OPERATOR: Robert Peck with Bear, Stearns.  

ROBERT PECK, ANALYST, BEAR, STEARNS: Congratulations. Two quick questions for you here. One is, Eric, could you comment a little bit on the content deal you signed right before the YouTube deal and any pending litigation? And did any of the content providers take stakes in either Google or YouTube as part of those deals?  

And then secondly, bigger picture -- back at Analyst Day, you talked about $100 billion revenue goal for the Company. It's clear you probably can't get there on just advertising dollars alone. Could you maybe talk to us about what other sources of revenue you see developing over the coming years? Thanks.  

ERIC SCHMIDT: With respect to the content deals and the ones we did most recently, speaking for Google, we were able to do some very interesting deals using a combination of financial pre-payments, revenue shares, other ways in which the money flows. We saw that in our partnerships the best partnerships come when both partners have a share in the revenue success of the deal. And that is typically the deal structure we have been doing.  

I'd rather not go into the specifics of those deals.  

With respect to the YouTube part, as you know, we've entered into an agreement to purchase YouTube, but we are not actually closed with them, so they are still today a separate company.  

We did, as part of the due diligence of YouTube, go through all of their details under the normal due diligence. We were satisfied with what we saw.  

With respect to your second question about the $100 billion, I actually left the question of $100 billion as an ambiguous question in my comments in the spring. But nevertheless, it is important that we develop other good sources of revenue going forward.  

We think that advertising and in particular, search advertising, will be the majority of our advertising revenue for many, many years. We have a number of very interesting successes -- the enterprise business continues to churn along. It would be an enormous success on its own merits.  

I think if you look at, for example, Google Apps for Your Domain, you can see that product, as it becomes more successful, could become for example, a very significant source of revenue.  

In addition to that, the Checkout by Google product offers a tremendous revenue potential as well. Of course it is in the early stages. Do we have the next question?  

OPERATOR: Mary Meeker, Morgan Stanley.  

MARY MEEKER, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: We had a question, just to drill down a little bit on some of the video deals. The traditional content providers to date have been somewhat hesitant to really figure out how to monetize their video content on the Internet. It feels like the deal and the deals that you struck around with YouTube and around the YouTube day were things that have finally been -- will prove with a little bit of hindsight to be things that have really moved the monetization ball forward. And so the question there is how critical were some of the deals that you talked about, number one, that you just alluded to in the last question? Two, do you feel that we are going to start do see real progress in monetization of video over the next six months, in large part because of what you have done?  

And third question relates to do you think we will see any changes in traffic acquisition costs as a percent of revenue related to your video efforts? Thanks.  

OMID KORDESTANI, SVP, GLOBAL SALES & BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT, GOOGLE, INC.: Mary, this is Omid Kordestani. So in regards to your questions --  

MARY MEEKER: You are the only one who could remember all the questions?  

OMID KORDESTANI: I am going to do my best, and then you can remind me if I didn't cover them. So first of all, we are very excited to see that not only Google has had a great momentum in talking to all the content partnerships. In fact, the majority of the executive team has been busy meeting with as many companies as possible and would like to touch many of them in the coming weeks, and actively talking about ways that we can bring a lot of revenue and search capability and basically all the Google capabilities that can improve the way these products can be offered to users and generate a lot of revenue for the content owners.  

And we also were very pleased that we saw that same philosophy at YouTube, that they were very actively striking these relationships. And they are complex. It is a new space. We are all trying to understand each other. And we think ultimately the answer lies with the fact that there is a lot of usage here, a lot of interest from our users, and that we believe that there is also great monetization engine that Google can provide here to make this all work for all the parties.  

The other thing I would like to say is that the video -- we are having a great success with the video ads format. And a lot of this actually has been led by our U.S. advertising sales organization and our great products, which Jonathan can address in a few minutes.  

There are lots of examples from our work with Goodby, Silverstein and Saturn -- to even detail of this, we are finding advertisers that are finding the video format very complementary -- it is user-initiated action, which very much means that the user is interested in seeing these ads and creates great response rates. And so ultimately we really believe that there's a lot of momentum here, there's a lot of learning here and that there's a lot of revenue here for everyone to share. Jonathan can add a few points.  

JONATHAN ROSENBERG, SVP, PRODUCT MANAGEMENT, GOOGLE, INC.: Mary, it is Jonathan. I think there's been a lot of success, if you look at just some of the early stages in the last quarter. In Q3, we launched a video ads product globally, and they were implemented by hundreds of advertisers I think in over 30 countries -- Office Max, Paramount, GM, Nike, Renault, British Airways; Omid mentioned Saturn. And we are having success in a number of areas.  

For starters, just in terms of getting reach, a good example is what Paramount Plastics did with an inconvenient truth, where they used site targeting to select a bunch of environmentally-focused sites that they knew would reach the right demographic. And they actually did exit polls that showed that 30% of the people who saw that movie on the opening weekend were exposed to their ad.  

There's also a number of other examples, the Silverstein campaign, that Omid mentioned with Saturn, which I think was for Aura, which is the mid-size sedan, is doing all sorts of great different kind of targeting. They have a campaign there where they ran it in six markets and users in Raleigh, for example, North Carolina, would get a Google Earth powered view of the world that would zoom down into the Saturn dealership. So there's all sorts of examples there.  

One last example that I would give you is -- there are products for small advertisers as well. This product isn't just for large advertisers. There are products like there is a string master robotic guitar, if you look at some of the guitar tuning sites. And it's the kind of thing that you would never understand it if you saw a text ad that said amazing guitar tuner. But when you actually see this thing and its little video work, you really understand the value. And they are having a great deal of success.  

MARY MEEKER: And George, any thoughts on TAC?  

GEORGE REYES: So TAC is actually moving in the right direction for us. And I think if you have had a chance to look at the slides that we have put up, Mary, you will see that.  

MARY MEEKER: Well, the question related to TAC and video and the future.  

GEORGE REYES: Way too early to go there, Mary. Let's have our next question.  

OPERATOR: Anthony Noto, Goldman Sachs.  

ANTHONY NOTO, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: I was wondering if you could comments -- on the Analyst Day you talked about revenue per search being very difficult different domestically than internationally. I think the exact quote was 60% of your queries came international but 40% of your revenue. How has that mix changed over time just so we kind of assess the opportunity? And then second question -- display advertising and video -- what percent of the queries that are done on the site today broadly would be appropriate for a video response? Is there a way to assess that? And when do you think that your percentage of revenue for display advertising could reach 10%? Is that a couple years away? Is that a year away? Five years away? Just kind of a broad picture. Thanks.  

ERIC SCHMIDT: Jonathan, go ahead.  

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: Well I guess I could start with the display versus video in terms of percentage. I think that that dynamic is really going to be a function of the breadth of the inventory getting built out, and the experiments that people are doing today, where we are seeing when these type of video efforts work. I think they have to be -- they have to be one of the kind of models that I was describing earlier. So something that is explanatory in value like the guitar, where you really understand the value of it when you actually see it. Or with other examples of the kind of branded type efforts that studios want to do when they are trying to build critical mass for different movies.  

So I think it could get to something like 10%, but we're basically going to have to make it much, much easier to create the videos, submit them and then figure out in the context of a bunch of these sites within the network where they will actually work. And I think we are only just beginning to understand that.  

On the domestic versus international question, it is the case that there's some international markets that are very, very strong, particularly some of the Western European markets. I'm not sure specifically what kind of color I can give you beyond that other than to say -- to reinforce what George said, which is in Western Europe, particularly in the UK, Germany, Italy, many of those countries, we are doing extremely well.  

OMID KORDESTANI: The only other thing I would like to add -- this is Omid -- is that in terms of overall success we are going to see here is, first, we have the very powerful Google network, made up of both search sites and content sites. And then we are doing partnerships like the MySpace partnership with Fox, and News Corp., where significant amounts of inventory and growth opportunity represent ways for us to try new ad formats. And so we are going to basically try everything from our traditional text ads here to display advertising and we see a lot of potential here.  

ERIC SCHMIDT: Let's go to our next question, thanks.  

OPERATOR: Imran Khan, JPMorgan.  

IMRAN KHAN, ANALYST, JP MORGAN: Two questions. Eric, you talked about partnership. I think in the past, like portal players made some great partnership with telco guys. And now with your fusion product and your partnership with AOL, do you think that you see some opportunity to do some partnership with the telco side on the broadband deals?  

And secondly, going back to the international side, George, could you give us some sense of what percentage of the revenue came from UK? And give us some color like in terms of breadth of advertisers in the France, Spain and Italy market. If I look at Germany, France, Spain, and Italy, it's like 2.5 times bigger than UK, but I think less than 10% of your revenue each of those countries represent. So can you give us some color? What do you think in terms of advertisers take rate?  

George Reyes Clearly, the UK is a very, very strong market for us. We have very substantial market share there. And it is a very healthy business. What was your second question that was tied to that?  

IMRAN KHAN: The question was what percentage of revenue came from UK?  

GEORGE REYES: Roughly 16% or 15 to 16%, something like that.  

IMRAN KHAN: And the follow-up question related to UK was like if I look at Germany, France, Spain, and Italy -- combined those four countries it's 2.5 times bigger than UK, but none of those countries are not more than 10% of your revenue countries. So I was wondering, are you seeing any resentment from advertisers that they're not taking the search advertisement? Or what is the reason that you're not seeing a big take rate -- commerce is going very strongly in those countries.  

GEORGE REYES: Omid is going to take that one.  

OMID KORDESTANI: We are actually having great success in Europe in all of those countries. And what is really happening is there are just local dynamics that are very different. As an example, traditionally in some of these markets, we realize that the websites of, for example, financial institutions were more informationally oriented than transaction oriented. Whereas in the U.S. you can complete a loan transaction or a credit card transaction right away, instantly.  

So we have taken a lot of care and time to basically move advertisers that are capable of using our systems to our online channel, as well as them having our sales force on the ground in the field, really spent a lot of time working directly with major companies in each of these reasons regions. And we are actually very, very optimistic about the results we are seeing and the growth we're seeing in Germany, France and Italy.  

As well as the emerging markets. Across the board, we are seeing off a very small base, but significant growth rates that are actually ahead of U.S. and Europe in some of the emerging markets. Again, they are small bases and we think though that they have the potential as we get the core search products and advertising products working well there, and the future of the newer monetization products extending to these markets. And, Eric, do you want to answer that too?  

ERIC SCHMIDT: No, that's fine. Go ahead. Let's go to our next question.  

OPERATOR: Christa Quarles, Thomas Weisel.  

CHRISTA QUARLES, ANALYST, THOMAS WEISEL PARTNERS: Just a couple of questions on video and YouTube. First, how heavily are you relying on maybe a liberal interpretation of the Digital Millennium Copyright Act? I guess, how are you going to be responding to some of the copyright commentary out there?  

And then I know you don't give guidance, but just a binary response is fine -- will YouTube be profitable or not profitable as you see it? And I'll stop there. Thanks.  

ERIC SCHMIDT: The second question is easily answered by -- we don't give guidance.  

The first question is, we are definitely not relying on a liberal or a conservative interpretation of the DMCA. We are relying on the Digital Millennium Copyright Act as it is being imposed by law. And there's not a lot of shades of gray in how it works. There's a set of procedures for take down. If you operate under this, companies have a Safe Harbor. We do our very, very best to implement it exactly as prescribed as does everyone else in the industry. So whether people like it or not, it is the law of the land and we absolutely operate by it.  

OPERATOR: Jordan Rohan, RBC Capital Markets.  

JORDAN ROHAN, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: I was curious about two things related to video and YouTube. The first is on the CapEx side, have you already started to ramp your CapEx in anticipation of adding a major, major source of video streaming, and, therefore, necessary capacity to your system in YouTube? And second, if not, can you talk about the demands that you might see or the incremental CapEx that you might see as the Web shifts from a largely text-based Web to a largely video-based Web over some period of time?  

LARRY PAGE: Thanks, Jordan. This is Larry. I think we are very lucky at Google to have a huge amount of computer resources, which you have seen reflected in. It turns out search is a pretty hard problem. So we've had a lot of resources both planned and underway to deal with that.  

Video is actually mostly I think more of a bandwidth-intensive application. And we have already had a lot of success also on our own sites with Google Video and some experience in building that up. And I'd don't think that we think that will be hugely material to our capital spending versus all the other things that we are doing.  

ERIC SCHMIDT: This is Eric. Let me just add, we are the beneficiaries of huge economies of scale around Moore's Law, our capital spending. And we apply those across the entire breadth of our products. It works very well for us. Let's go ahead to our next question.  

OPERATOR: Ben Schachter, UBS.  

BEN SCHACHTER, ANALYST, UBS: Congratulations on a fantastic quarter. A few questions -- could you define how you determine what revenue is Google.com revenue, particularly as it relates to revenue paid for through TAC or distribution partners, as well as AdSense for domains?  

And then secondly, the AdWords Starter Edition, I was wondering if you could talk about how that is performing, particularly for local businesses? And then for George, will TAC related to distribution partners increase at about the same pace as Google.com revenue? And then finally an update just on the investment income and some of the issues you have been working through with the SEC on where you can invest that?  

ERIC SCHMIDT: Jonathan, do you want to start the first part of the questions and George can handle the second ones?  

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: Sure, hi, Ben, it is Jonathan. So basically the AdWords Starter Edition is an alternative version of AdWords, and it's a lot easier for novices to get into search advertising. It's got a much simpler UI.  

I'm not sure in terms of color how much I can offer you. We have been using it extensively. We have been tracking the percentage of advertisers who start with AdWords Starter Edition who then actually are successful in getting their work to manifest itself in the form of a working campaign. And who then continue to opt into our ad systems and we are doing much, much better there on a percentage basis in terms of getting the advertiser signed up. So in that sense, it has been unsuccessful. We are also then getting a number of those advertisers using AdWords itself. So the take rates are strong.  

BEN SCHACHTER: And then how you define revenue for Google.com on AdSense for Domains and TAC?  

GEORGE REYES: The way that we think about that is we have a very thriving Google.com business, and there is a negligible, very negligible portion of that Google.com business that gets rev shared. So that fundamentally is the model we use on that. And then on the AdSense side, as you know, the rev shares are substantially larger as we split our rev shares with our network partners. Is that what you were getting at, Ben?  

BEN SCHACHTER: I'm looking at AdSense for Domains -- I was wondering if that is counted as Google.com revenue or partner revenue.  

GEORGE REYES: It is partner revenue. Let's go to our next question.  

OPERATOR: Bill Morrison, JMP Securities.  

BILL MORRISON, ANALYST, JMP SECURITIES: A couple of questions. One, just on the CapEx. George, you are pretty clear that this year CapEx has grown faster than revenue. I was wondering if you could just kind of maybe frame next year, the next year years, is that something we should continue to expect beyond 2006? And then on MySpace, I was curious -- you have obviously announced the deal and talked a lot about it. Curious if you have actually signed the deal, and their response to your planned acquisition of YouTube?  

ERIC SCHMIDT: This is Eric. First, we made a decision strategically to invest capital and part of the reason that our results have been so strong in the last year is because a year or two years ago, we quote, overinvested, unquote, in capital. In our model, the capital investment we are making gives us differentially better service quality, better scale, better leverage. And we intend to continue that. George?  

GEORGE REYES: And besides that, Ben, if I just look -- I am sitting here looking at the free cash flow for this quarter alone. It is $512 million. So the CapEx investments that we need to make we can easily afford and drive them to build more value for the Company.  

And with respect to your question on MySpace, we signed a binding letter of agreement which we are operating under. And we will come to final contract terms I think very quickly on that.  

OPERATOR: Justin Post, Merrill Lynch.  

JUSTIN POST, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: The U.S. growth, I think, was 57% in the quarter, and I think you said in your prepared remarks that monetization was faster than traffic growth. Is that safe to assume that if you had to break that down, monetization was a bigger percent, more than half of the growth there? And were there other traffic areas of the Google websites that helped drive some revenue growth that were kind of interesting in the quarter?  

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: This is Jonathan. George may be able to speak to some of the specific revenue issues. Just in terms of the monetization and traffic dynamic, this is seasonally, from a traffic perspective, usually a less robust quarter. From a monetization standpoint, I think what was different this quarter relative to previous quarters when you look at the seasonality, is that in both Q3 of '04 and '05 we talked about a lot of monetization improvements that occurred intra quarter. And those then manifested themselves in forms of a very strong Q3 from a monetization perspective.  

The story this quarter is a little different in that we did a lot of monetization improvements in Q2. So RPM was impacted positively by those improvements at the beginning of the quarter carrying over from Q2. So there were not -- there were actually relatively fewer monetization improvements this Q3 than there were in previous Q3's. But we started the quarter with very strong RPM that continued all the way through the quarter as a function of the improvements that were done in Q2.  

Other than that, in terms of the questions about other properties, many of the other properties are experiencing strong traffic, news, images and much of that comes back to Google.com.  

OPERATOR: Safa Rashtchy, Piper Jaffray.  

SAFA RASHTCHY, ANALYST, PIPER JAFFRAY: Congratulations. My question is really about the components of your operation that help you grow about 84% according to my calculation on Google sites, and I want to focus on Google sites because you have controlled -- you outlined the five features or five characteristics that are helping you grow. But we have been lumping all of these as search revenues. Is it fair to say that 84% growth didn't really come from what you would traditionally count as search revenues? Your competitors are reporting anywhere between a mid-teens growth. So there is a huge discrepancy here. And I wonder if you can help us understand where this growth is coming from beyond the traditional search clicks?  

ERIC SCHMIDT: Well in fact, it does -- the vast majority of our revenue is from search and search revenues, advertising revenues, so indeed it is that. So Omid, maybe you can take us through that.  

OMID KORDESTANI: A think it is -- going back to something that Jonathan mentioned is that some of the product improvements that we're making and just really the incredible innovation by the products and engineering team. And then our sales folks are really feeding the system -- have a cascading impact, which is these improvements that are made over the quarters build on each other.  

And the other thing that is really driving this is a number of factors -- the geographic expansion of our products and our advertiser base and our user base across the globe, and domestic growth we are experiencing and users and number of advertisers. Better search quality improvements we're making there again and the way the targeting of ads go hand-in-hand with that really help ultimately improve the response rates on these ads. More inventory from the different properties -- again a lot of the network is built off great search inventory and renewal of those partnerships continue to fuel the growth.  

And we're also seeing growth in advertiser spend -- there's more of the flow from offline to online happening. We are introducing the new ad formats and offering new ways for these advertisers to work with us. So it is really a cascading effect -- how these product improvements build on each other. And then the natural growth rates we are experiencing from the geographic expansion and the products I mentioned.  

SAFA RASHTCHY: Do you feel that you are gaining any market share, either in U.S. or internationally? And has it contributed to this growth at all?  

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: This is Jonathan, just very quickly. Market share appears to be strong. We saw some discussion in terms of the summer slowdown where we are, I think, a little disproportionally impacted by having a high share of academics. But as I think many of you had noted, that recovered very quickly and is strong across the world.  

OPERATOR: Doug Anmuth, Lehman Brothers.  

DOUG ANMUTH, ANALYST, LEHMAN BROTHERS: It looks like your network grew about 4% sequentially. Can you talk a little bit about to what degree you might be cleaning up the network? If you are, how far along you are in that process and what kind of affiliate partners might be coming out?  

LARRY PAGE: Hi, Doug, this is Larry. I think we've always had a very strong stance with regards to maintaining the quality of our network, especially as compared to the other companies in the space. We've had very tough policies about monetization and things like spyware and adware and all these kinds of things that people do kind of on the margin. And I have actually been very happy with the quality we have in our ad network and also released some improvements just very recently, of landing page quality, which are really -- even for all ads really -- push for higher quality advertisements. So I think we have been really innovating in that space and we will continue to do that.  

OPERATOR: Mark Rowen, Prudential.  

MARK ROWEN, ANALYST, PRUDENTIAL EQUITY GROUP: Eric and Jonathan, back at Analyst Day, you talked about monetization gains and you said that there was lots of room to increase monetization for a long time to come. But it seems that as you get better and better in the search business and providing search results to people that every quarter it's going to get a little bit harder to top what you did and that the growth from monetization is going to start to slow.  

Can you just give us a sense of -- do you think that most of the low hanging fruit has been picked and it gets harder and harder from this point? Or do you still see lots of opportunities the same as what you did back at Analyst Day?  

In then second, can you give us an update on local? Back at Analyst Day, you were very excited about that. I was wondering if you could just help us understand where you are at product-wise on that and on the monetization front.  

SERGEY BRIN: : This is actually Sergey, I want to talk a little bit about monetization. In a sense, you might imagine that the low-hanging fruit have been picked. But in fact, we have at the same time built ladders and are reaching for perhaps even larger, higher-hanging fruit.  

Because we have reached a certain kind of scale, the tools and resources we have at our disposal now to really do an even better job of bringing the right advertisements to the right users at the right time is far greater. And there are new kinds of things that we couldn't have even contemplated doing in the past.  

When we look at the question for example of video advertising, imagining, as Jonathan said, video advertisement as an informative ad, not talking about as kind of a -- even a branding or entertainment kind of ad, but you can imagine a local advertiser having a video advertisement for their local bakery, showing you how they bake the things, and showing you around the store and whatnot.  

I think there are just many new opportunities that we have, given the evolution of both our ability to analyze advertising very well, the traffic and user base that we have, the huge advertiser base. You know, we can choose amongst far more advertisements these days and we can get them to adopt new technologies.  

I think all of those things are really coming together. And we seem to be able to produce new ways to monetize all the time. So I don't see an obvious ceiling -- obviously, nobody can 100% predict the future.  

LARRY PAGE: I was just gong to add -- this is Larry -- add to Sergey's excellent comments, that even if you do searches now just on normal WebSearch, and you look for things -- you click on the ads for things to buy on the searches you do, I find very often the ads -- some of the ads are good, some of them aren't. And we have a huge ways to go just on the basic things that we do to making it really relevant 100% of the time and giving you all the right advertisers that are available in that space. And there's very obvious growth there still.  

And Checkout also, making the process of buying things really seamless and fast and usually people buy a lot more things online.  

So we just see -- I see very huge advances possible there even in the very basic things we do, and I'm also very excited about the new types of formats and new types of things that we can do in advertising.  

ERIC SCHMIDT: And Jonathan, do you want to answer that local question as well?  

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: Sure. I think Larry and Sergey did a great job of answering the first question, which I did talk about at Analyst Day. I completely agree with them.  

On the local side, I think we have seen very strong organic growth in local searches. A lot of this is particularly fueled by Maps usage and the growth in the Maps' API, and Google Earth downloads. I think there is a very, very strong ecosystem that has developed there around our API.  

And when you think about that, Larry mentioned in his prepared remarks, I think, that 50% of small businesses believe they can use the Internet for their marketing and sales but 50% of them don't have websites. So the real big win there I think may come from some of the work that we're doing with Intuit, with the QuickBooks 2007 integration. And that will make it very, very easy for businesses to host pages, create them, set up a site, and then generate ads. But if you want to check some out, type [Colo] Store in New York City. You can also a look at some of the printable coupons that Larry mentioned if you type in carwashes and Mountainview.  

MARK ROWEN: And how are some of the monetization efforts in local going? I know you were doing some testing with some retailers, putting their names in the bullets on the Maps and things? Can you talk about that at all?  

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: It is a real portion of our revenue. I can't give you specifics in terms of percentages, but it is one of the things that we are tracking very, very carefully and that is reasonably significant at this point.  

ERIC SCHMIDT: Let's have our last question.  

OPERATOR: Marianne Wolk, Susquehanna.  

MARIANNE WOLK, ANALYST, SUSQUEHANNA FINANCIAL GROUP: You signed a lot of distribution deals with Adobe, Dell and others. Can you let us know whether that has become a significant contributor to Google.com revenue yet? Would you say that's 5% of the Google.com revenue? 2%? Is there any way to characterize that?  

And thus far, can you talk about the monetization trends from that source? How do they compare with what you generate from traditional search portals?  

ERIC SCHMIDT: This is Eric. Each of the deals that I highlighted is at the beginning stages. Each of them amplifies the revenue production, if you will, of our advertising network. They deepen it, they bring in more advertisers, increase the coverage. So the economics compound quarter-over-quarter as they begin to flow. The Dell deal, for example, is already shipping and doing well for us, etc. So it is hard to characterize a particular percentage, but understand that the partnerships are much more than just revenue partnerships. They really are a way of doing business for us going forward.  

For example, there are a lot of folks on the call asked questions about legal concerns over video. But decided to do with video was to partner, not to focus on the legal aspects, but to focus on the business partnership aspects. Because the folks who -- we certainly want to respect everybody's copyrights -- and they need us, we need them. And the combination should produce some very interesting new partnerships, which we are hopefully going to work on, especially after the integration with YouTube is complete.  

What I wanted to do is to finish by saying that we are in many ways crossing into another era here of what it will be possible to do with the Internet. We have gone from WebSearch, various other forms of applications to now literally being able to do business, life, entertainment, especially with the integration of video, on the net. This is a very, very powerful, powerful way in which many, many companies, many, many users, many, many advertisers will use.  

The diversity of our approach is one of our strengths, and we intend to keep going and to focus on both more partnerships, more great products, integrated as general features, growing the Company, investing in our capital, and we hope to continue to do very well.  

So with that, thank you very much. Thank you for spending so much time. And I do want to finish the call by saying, happy birthday to Omid. Thank you, all.  

OMID KORDESTANI: Thank you, Eric.  

OPERATOR: Thank you. That does conclude today's conference. You may disconnect your lines at anytime.  

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]  

   CO
goog : Google Inc.
   IN
i8395464 : Internet Search Engines | iint : Internet/Online Services
   NS
c15 : Performance | c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe
   PUB
Voxant, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020061102e2aj001xo
  


 HD
 Q2  2006 Google Earnings Conference Call - Final  
   WC
10,490 words
   PD
20 July 2006
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.    

   LP
OPERATOR: Good day, everyone, and welcome to the Google, Inc. conference call. This call is being recorded. At this time I'd like to turn the call over to Ms. Kim Jabal, Director of Investor Relations.  

   TD
KIM JABAL, DIRECTOR OF INVESTOR RELATIONS, GOOGLE, INC.: Thank you. Good afternoon, everyone. Welcome to our second quarter 2006 earnings call. On the call today with -- on the call with us today are Eric Schmidt, Chief Executive Officer, George Reyes, Chief Financial Officer, Larry Page, Founder and President of Products, Sergey Brin, Founder and President of Technology, Omid Kordestani, Senior Vice President of Global Sales and Operations, and Salar Kamangar, Vice President of Product Management. Eric, George, Larry and Sergey will provide some thoughts on the quarter, and then we'll have Omid and Salar join us for your questions. Jonathan is not available to join us this quarter. Since we received such positive feedback on the format, we will try to keep prepared remarks to a minimum and allow more time for questions.  

This call is being Webcast from our Investor Relations Website. Additionally, our press release, issued a few minutes ago, is now posted on the Website. A replay of the call will be available within a few hours.  

Some of the comments we will make today are forward-looking, including statements regarding future product innovations, the prospects for growth in online advertising, traffic and users, the seasonality of our business, the growth of our operating and capital expenditures, possible future compression in our margins, capital expenditures reducing our operating costs, our hiring patterns, our expected tax rate for 2006, and expected benefits from ad quality initiatives. These statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated by these forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include a variety of factors, some of which are beyond our control. These forward-looking statements speak as of today, and you should not rely on them as representing our views in the future, and we will undertake no obligation to update these statements after this call. Please refer to our SEC filings, including our report on Form 10-K for the quarter ended March 31, 2006, as well as our earnings release posted a few minutes ago on our Website for a more detailed description of the risk factors that may affect our results. Copies of these documents may be obtained from the SEC, or by visiting the Investor Relations section of our Website.  

Also please note that certain financial measures we use on this call, such as EPS, net income, operating margin, operating income and free cash flow will be expressed on a non-GAAP basis, and have been adjusted to exclude charges related to stock-based compensation, or SBC, and a onetime gain from the sale of our investment in Baidu, and the related tax effects of these items. We also report our GAAP results, as well as provide non-GAAP results, on a supplemental basis in our earnings release. Reconciliations of all non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP financial measures are also included in the earnings release, which may be obtained by visiting the Investor Relations section of our Website.  

And with that, I'll turn it over to Eric.  

ERIC SCHMIDT, CHAIRMAN AND CEO, GOOGLE, INC.: Thanks very much, Kim. We're very, very happy with having such a strong quarter in a seasonally-weak period for us, and it looks like our model continues to work extremely well -- our focus on innovation, the many things that we've talked about with you all in the past. So, thank you very much for joining us. It's another good day, good quarter for Google.  

When I look at why this is happening, I see the evolution of our strategy in front of us over and over again. We start with one thing, we learn, we iterate. And that's the hallmark of how Google operates.  

Today we are going to talk a little bit about some of the new products, which are coming at a fast and furious rate. I'd also like to emphasize the role of partnerships. And in your questions and comments, let's explore a little bit how the partnerships that we're developing -- not just the ad partnerships, which have been studied for many years, AOL, (indiscernible), those sorts of things -- but a lot of the new partnerships. You can see how we're behaving with partnerships when you see the tremendously important Dell deal, Adobe deal, others coming. And we're learning how to operate, learning how to build a stronger ecosystem.  

The strength of that ecosystem is central to our strategy, because we can't do it alone. We benefit by having the reach, impact, financials, and frankly, help from the partnerships, not just even the ones I named, but in content, in distribution and in access -- all of which are announced with many, many more coming.  

So with that, perhaps the best thing to do is to turn it right over to George to hear how did the quarter go. George?  

GEORGE REYES, CFO AND SVP, GOOGLE, INC.: Thanks, Eric. Q2 was another strong quarter in which we experienced robust revenue growth and made important investments, while continuing to grow our operating income.  

Revenue was nearly $2.5 billion, representing growth of 77% over Q2 of last year and 9% over Q1. Google.com revenue was 1.4 billion, an increase of 94% over last year and 10% sequentially. Despite expected summer seasonality, growth in both traffic and monetization contributed to our performance this quarter. Ongoing initiatives to improve the quality of our ads were a significant driver of increased monetization, along with continued healthy growth in our advertiser base.  

AdSense revenue grew 58% over last year and 7% sequentially. Many of our AdSense research partners showed solid gains in monetization this quarter, while the continued expansion of our publisher base and increases in overall traffic drove growth in AdSense for content.  

Revenue from the U.S. was 1.4 billion, or 58% of revenue. U.S. revenue increased 8% sequentially.  

International revenue was 1 billion, or 42% of revenue, and increased 11% sequentially. Europe continues to drive most of our growth outside the United States, with the UK at 15% of revenue, or 370 million, up 8% sequentially. Germany continues to be our second strong market in Europe, but our investments in smaller markets are paying off, and we saw double-digit growth in many countries, including Spain, Italy, Israel, Finland, Norway, and Poland.  

Outside of Europe, emerging markets in Asia and Latin America still represent a relatively small percentage of our total revenues, but continue to show strong revenue growth as we increase our hiring and investments in these regions. Traffic growth in Asia and Latin America was particularly strong this quarter. The World Cup did modestly impact traffic in certain countries, but did not have a material impact on revenues.  

Foreign exchange impacted revenue positively this quarter, as revenue would have been 26 million lower in Q2 had foreign exchange rates remained constant from Q1 through Q2. Had foreign exchange rates remained constant from Q2 of '05 through Q2 of '06, international revenues this quarter would have been $18 million higher.  

Turning to TAC, traffic acquisition costs were 785 million, or 32% of advertising revenue. The majority of TAC is related to payments to our AdSense partners. Toolbar distribution deals are typically accounted for as TAC if they are revenue-sharing in nature. In Q2, as in prior periods, TAC related to payments to distribution partners represented an immaterial percentage of advertising revenue.  

Operating expenses included 107 million in stock-based compensation and totaled 652 million. These expenses included 342 million in headcount-related and facilities expense, as we ramped up hiring across our organization, particularly in sales and marketing and R&D, and 49 million in advertising and promotional expenses, including 24 million related to toolbar distribution deals. We expect operating expenses to increase in the future due to continued aggressive hiring, as well as marketing programs, including strategic distribution deals.  

Non-GAAP operating profit, which excludes stock-based compensation, remains strong at 925 million, with non-GAAP operating margins of 38%, a sequential decline during this period of continued investment. As we have previously discussed, margins may decline as we continue to invest in the business.  

In Q2, CapEx totaled 699 million. A substantial portion of CapEx was related to opportunistic real estate purchases of $319 million during Q2, about half of which was from existing lease conversions and half from investments to support future growth. The balance of CapEx was largely related to data center builds and infrastructure-related expenditures, including servers and network equipment, as well as data centers.  

As we further improve and increase the sophistication of our core search and ads, we require customized infrastructure to deliver faster and better service to our users. The significant majority of our infrastructure spending supports our core search and ads platform, with the remainder supporting newer products and initiatives.  

Our investments in core technology historically have paid off very handsomely for us in terms of our results. Rest assured that the decisions that we're making around capital expenditures are carefully thought out and prudently debated. Note that a significant portion of our CapEx spending is related to build versus lease decisions around data centers, and buy versus lease decisions around real estate, and that by making these investments upfront, we expect to reduce our overall cost of operations over the long run.  

We noted during our last call that CapEx growth would be substantially greater than the annual revenue growth rate in 2006, and we continue to anticipate this going into the second half of the year.  

Now, turning to cash, our balance sheet remained very healthy, with our total cash position standing at nearly $10 billion at June 30th. Cash flow from operations was 841 million, and free cash flow, which we define as cash flow from operations, less CapEx, was 142 million. Q2 free cash flow was significantly impacted by the IT investment -- by the investments in IT infrastructure and the real estate that I just discussed.  

Our effective tax rate for the quarter was 26%, and 27% for the six months ended June 30th of 2006. We currently anticipate that our effective tax rate for the full year will be at or below 30%. We recorded a onetime gain from the sale of our investment in Baidu of 55 million. This and the related tax affect have been excluded from our non-GAAP calculation of income.  

Turning to headcount, our headcount at June 30th was 7942, an increase of 1152 over Q1. While the majority of our hires are still in the U.S., the proportion of employees that are being hired internationally, particularly in India and Ireland, has been steadily increasing, consistent with our efforts to build our operations overseas and develop local products for local markets. We expect to continue to hire aggressively around the world, particularly in Q3, across all functions, especially sales, marketing and R&D.  

In closing, I'd like to reiterate that we are pleased with this quarter, despite the seasonal impact on traffic. Looking ahead to Q3, we anticipate traffic levels will continue to reflect slower seasonal patterns, while we do expect to see continued benefits from ongoing ad quality initiatives in future quarters. We will continue to make strategic investments to allow us to maintain our leadership position in search and ads and to pursue additional growth opportunities.  

Now I'll turn it over to Larry for more comments.  

LARRY PAGE, PRESIDENT OF PRODUCTS, GOOGLE, INC.: Thanks, George. We continue to focus [announcing] users worldwide to create signs and share information. We are focused on improving the user experience online and increasing the usage of Google products. This is how we measure our success.  

We're excited that we [really] introduced many new products for international users this quarter. Localizing our products is an important step in broadening our reach with users worldwide and strengthening our brand and share in markets outside the U.S. We delivered nearly 200 localized versions of products in this quarter alone, including Toolbar 4 in 15 new languages, Google Pack in 10 additional languages, Google News in Arabic, Google Talk in 13 languages, and the personalized homepage in four languages. We are also making international search a top priority by improving relevance and adding new features.  

We are bringing more of our products to mobile phone users. Since there are at least twice as many mobile phones than PCs in use globally, and mobile usage is growing faster than PCs, we want to make Google available in a device-independent way.  

Mobile phone users can now access Gmail, news and a personalized homepage in French, Italian, German and more. We launched Maps for mobile in several additional countries, and we are creating more opportunities for advertisers to reach users through mobile devices.  

We launched mobile ads in Japan in April, and the early results are very positive. We expect to roll out mobile ads in additional countries later this year.  

We also made some great strides towards growing our developer community, a very important group of partners that will help us grow the Google user base. We also now have APIs available for many of our products, including AdWords, Blogger, Calendar, Maps, Gadgets, and Checkout. And partners like salesforce.com, Cisco and (indiscernible) are now developing modules with the OneBox API for enterprise to allow large organizations to search a wider range of corporate data through the Google enterprise search appliance.  

We also continue to broaden our targeted branding solutions for advertisers. Many large and small advertisers are already taking advantage of quick to play video ads on our content network, while auto companies like GM and Honda are running their TV ads on the Google network as a way to extend their reach from off-line to online media.  

Entertainment companies like Lions Gate and Fox are using Google for branding initiatives. For the release of the movie An Inconvenient Truth, Paramount Vantage selected hundreds of environmental news and independent film sites that they knew would reach their target demographic, and ran a two-minute trailer. The combination of targeted reach and video helped drive people to movie theaters. According to exit polls, over 30% of people who saw An Inconvenient Truth opening weekend were exposed to Paramount's online ads.  

Now I will turn it over to Sergey to talk some more about what we're doing for our advertisers.  

SERGEY BRIN, PRESIDENT OF TECHNOLOGY, GOOGLE, INC.: Thanks, Larry. As Eric mentioned earlier, we continue to innovate in advertising. We introduced some very exciting products and services that allow our base of hundreds of thousands of advertisers to better target their ads and generate more sales.  

We made it easier for advertisers to manage their accounts quickly and efficiently by offering AdWords Editor for free. We also introduced AdScheduling, which gives advertisers greater control over the timing of the delivery of their ads, and allows them to drive greater return on AdWords as a whole.  

We are constantly making changes to AdWords to improve quality. We believe that by increasing ad quality, our users will continue to rely on ads to find the products and services they're looking for. We believe this is a win for everyone. Our users benefit by finding useful sites, advertisers benefit from qualified leads, and Google benefits from more long-term monetization opportunities.  

In the quarter we made numerous changes to the way we serve ads that help us to show the best ad at the best time. For instance, one of our improvements involved showing fewer ads while users were looking for non-commercial information rather than seeking to purchase something, while showing more highly relevant ads when our users are searching for products and services.  

And finally, we were very happy to introduce Google Checkout this quarter. We have spent a lot of time thinking about how we can help our users more easily shop online, while helping our advertisers generate more sales. Studies show that about 63% of users abandon their shopping cart before they complete the buying process. Google Checkout significantly improves and simplifies this process, while also benefiting merchants by delivering higher click-throughs, conversions, and ROI. We believe these benefits will increase advertiser spending and bring more advertisers to Google.  

While we only recently launched Checkout, we have already received very positive feedback from users, and we are seeing very healthy adoption rates from all types of advertisers -- from large off-line retailers to small online merchants, including buy.com, Bluefly, Starbucks, Back Country, and many more.  

Eric spoke a lot about partnerships, and they will be very important to the success of Google Checkout. We are working with financial institutions like Citi Cards to co-market Checkout to their customers. We have also developed partnerships with e-commerce service providers like GSI Commerce, Monster Commerce, and Channel Adviser, to help merchants integrate Google Checkout into their Website. We think this is one of the most exciting products we have announced this year, and expect to see great results in the near future.  

And with that, I will turn it over to Eric.  

ERIC SCHMIDT: Thanks very much, Sergey. As you can see, we're very, very proud of our results. A couple of themes that you hear through this.  

One, of course, is the rapid expansion of our international businesses. The world is a very big place, and Google has very much a worldwide mission. You're going to see more and more international focus, international expansion, international growth.  

Another is the investment in new products has continued apace. The primary investment, of course, according to our 70% rule, is in search and ads. And when we talk about search, we talk about [searching] everything, and when we talk about ads, we talk about more than just the text ads. Indeed, we have many interesting trials, partnerships and new products in that space to offer even more advertising services to the audiences worldwide.  

We are in a wonderful situation that we are able to now in fact increase the standards by which we select and hire new people into the Company. Currently we say we've raised the hiring bar. And even with that, we've been able to continue our expansion in headcount, especially internationally and outside the United States.  

We talked a little bit about mobile and how important mobile is, and how so many people will ultimately be using mobile as their information source, and not just from an information perspective, but also from a monetization perspective, as we mentioned.  

We don't see any signs of approaching any limits to this vision. The opportunities before us really are unlimited at this point. So with that, I'd be interested in you all's questions, comments, thoughts.  

Kim?  

We're trying to get our operator on here. While we're doing this, we'll introduce Omid Kordestani, very early employee, runs all of our business operations. He's been on the call a few times; runs worldwide operations, customer service, all of our businesses, all of our deals. Welcome, Omid. Salar Kamangar, one of the original inventors of the ad system, is here to talk a lot about the economics and structure of our advertising system. Do we have the operator?  

OPERATOR: (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS). Imran Khan, JP Morgan.  

IMRAN KHAN, ANALYST, JP MORGAN: Two questions. In terms of -- Eric, you talked about that one of your key goals is international expansion. If I look at international, could you give us some sense about the [relevance equality] of search in the international versus U.S., and the coverage in the international market versus U.S.? Primarily we are more interested in the European market versus U.S. That would be very helpful. And secondly, if I look at this last quarter growth rate, and if I ex out foreign currency, it seems like the U.S. and international growth rate was pretty relative. So it seems like U.S. is still growing pretty significantly, growth rate, while Europe is still very early. Can you help us understand what's driving the U.S. growth rate? Thanks.  

ERIC SCHMIDT: For part of the answer I can tell you that the quality in coverage in Europe is very similar to that of the United States. Depending on what assumptions we make about market share, we have strong market share in most of those countries, the brand is very, very strong. There's not much difference in user behavior, except, of course, the languages are different, but the quality there is very, very good. The ad businesses are also very strong. Those are mature markets with strong e-commerce models, etcetera. With respect to overall growth rate, Omid, do you want to talk about that?  

OMID KORDESTANI, SVP OF GLOBAL SALES AND BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT, GOOGLE, INC.: Sure. In terms of business, yes, you're correct; we're seeing that our strategy is playing out really well in the United States and, frankly, the rest of the world. We are trying to leverage all channels of sales and operations effectively. People that are very sophisticated at using our ads and our APIs are now in a lot of cases directly interacting with our systems. And our sales force in the fields in both regions, in all regions across the world, is working on opportunities with Fortune customers, with (indiscernible) customers, and also testing the new branding initiatives (indiscernible) initiatives. So we are growing the base, we are leveraging all the sales channels, and then we are testing the new initiatives.  

OPERATOR: Mark Mahaney, Citigroup.  

MARK MAHANEY, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: I wanted to ask about Google Checkout. Two questions -- a financial question. Can Google Checkout be profitable for you as a stand-alone business, or are your assumptions that the knock-on effects related to more AdWords spending [are click-through rates], that that's what really makes it financially compelling to you? Secondly, just in terms of the product itself, I know you talked qualitatively about some impact it's already having in the field with advertisers. Can you quantify that or provide a little bit more color? Are you seeing a material increase -- I know it's early -- but a material increase in ad buyers' budgets as they join up with Checkout?  

ERIC SCHMIDT: Of course, the good news is things happen very fast at Google. But we've only had the product out for a couple of weeks, so it's very early to comment on it. We did Checkout to solve the problem that Sergey described, which is we simply want to make the whole process of buying just quicker, more foolproof, more likely to conclude. And we think that that ultimately will translate into higher value for the advertiser, which should ultimately be reflected in our overall revenue. But of course it's an indirect benefit. Salar, do you want to talk a little bit about Checkout?  

SALAR KAMANGAR, VICE PRESIDENT, PRODUCT MANAGEMENT, GOOGLE, INC.: Sure. As Eric mentioned, everything about the product design, as well as the pricing model, is oriented towards helping users not just find the merchants and the ads, but also then complete the transaction. So it's for this reason that we have set up some incentives that have to do with AdWords spending. And our goal is long-term to increase the amount of searches and commercials, searches on Google, increase the click-through rate to our advertisers, and increase the conversion rates that these customers get because of the increased convenience. So we're really thinking about the business as a way of adding to our overall ad network.  

OPERATOR: Anthony Noto, Goldman Sachs.  

ANTHONY NOTO, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Eric, you talked about a lot of innovation. I was wondering if you could comment on the benefits from a couple of different things that were deployed during the quarter. The first is the number of commercial -- the number of sponsored links on commercial versus noncommercial terms. What have you learned from that in terms of benefits to the user and to the advertiser, and also dayparting buying? And then secondly, what benefits do you see in terms of increasing the reach of advertisers from launching vertical categories such as Google Finance? Does it allow you to increase your reach within that vertical type of advertisers? Thank you.  

ERIC SCHMIDT: Thank you very much. We're busy fine-tuning the ad network. And as you noted in the premise of your question, there is a set of commercial terms that we can trigger on. When we see those, we can do things that are even more valuable to the end user. And if they're more valuable to the end user, it generates more value to the advertiser.  

The most extreme form of that would be a specialized site like Google Finance, where we know the user cares a lot about finance. So it should be the case that an advertiser advertising on Google Finance would convert more highly, the revenue would be greater, the ads would have greater value, and should ultimately translate into more revenue for the Company, if the product is successful in the eyes of an end user. So once again, it's end user value, targeting the ads, running these experiments with commercial versus noncommercial, then all of that generates, ultimately, greater return for Google. Next question?  

OPERATOR: Marianne Wolk, Susquehanna.  

MARIANNE WOLK, ANALYST, SUSQUEHANNA: I was hoping you could talk a little bit more about what you're doing with the display advertising, and in particular where you are in your timetable with AOL.  

ERIC SCHMIDT: Omid?  

OMID KORDESTANI: We are joining a lot of tests with different advertisers, different partners. And as was mentioned during the call, for example, it was through the AdSense network we were running some of the click-to-play video advertising and evaluating the results of those tests. And with AOL, we have a very long list of milestones and projects that we are actively executing on, and we're on track with that partnership. So our hope is to really become a big player in this space. And we are doing a lot of tests, we're doing a lot of learning and fine-tuning our products.  

MARIANNE WOLK: Do you anticipate the display business being pay for performance?  

OMID KORDESTANI: At this point it's probably easier for us to use our existing models, and that -- the option system is working very well, and the advertisers are familiar with that system and using it very well. And we are very much open to testing different models as we learn and adopt those if they make sense.  

OPERATOR: Mary Meeker, Morgan Stanley.  

MARY MEEKER, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Eric, you talked a lot about partnerships at the beginning of the call. And you, obviously, are in a unique position to set up win-win relationships with your partners; you get them traffic; you give them a revenue share. Could you drill down a little bit more on your revenue share philosophy with some of these partners, whether it's Dell, whether it's Adobe, whether it's the mobile players? And a second question -- you talked about your enthusiasm associated with the growth in video. Can you give us any qualitative or quantitative comments on rates of growth, degree of growth, percent of usage, etcetera? Thanks.  

ERIC SCHMIDT: On the philosophy around our partnerships, we've typically given the majority of the value, if you will, to the advertiser to the partner who brings the end user. So typically, in the structure we help drive, the majority of the revenue -- and the shares are pretty high -- goes to companies like AOL and Ask Jeeves and so forth. We get tremendous benefit, though, from that, because then those advertisers are part of our overall advertiser network. And so our Google.com property gets that benefit.  

Although the specific terms with, for example, Dell are very much proprietary and part of a contract, we entered a similar arrangement with Dell after an awful lot of testing. And the idea was that here's Dell, a very interesting, very important company, and their end users would benefit by having more access to Google. It's worth it to us to share that revenue in whatever financial structure makes sense, so that the end user is satisfied, Dell -- of course, it's a good business for them, and it's a very good business for us.  

So the answer depends on the kind of partnership. Is it a content partner? Is it a distribution partner? Is it an ad partner? Do they bring end users? What is the economic structure of their industry? But all of them have some form of financial sharing -- although maybe not revenue, there may be other ways of doing it -- that gets them to where they need to be with respect to their economics, and gets us -- our goals aligned. Omid, do you want to talk a little bit about the overall structure here?  

OMID KORDESTANI: Sure. As Eric mentioned, we really did exhaustive analysis on all these partnerships, really trying to understand the long-term value of those users, the incremental revenue they generate, and really build sophisticated financial models that bring value to our partner, as well as protect our long-term revenues, incremental revenues and market share. And that's how we really struck all these partnerships.  

In terms of your question about video, we really are focused on comprehensiveness here. We struck all kinds of partnerships, from Wimbledon to U.S. Soccer, Sundance Channel, UC Berkeley, and we're really focused not only on the tail of this and a lot of the uploading of videos from user-generated content, but a lot of premium partnerships as well. And once again, we're doing a lot of learning here; a lot of new features are getting introduced, and we're also testing different ad formats to match this.  

ERIC SCHMIDT: It's worth adding, by the way, that internally when we did the strategy in this area, we said we are in the search business, so we need all of the information. We want to partner with people to get information so our search end users can see it. And we're also in the advertising business, and we'd like to provide advertising services to people who have their own proprietary content. So depending on where we are in that spectrum, we either do an advertising deal or a content deal or a hybrid deal. But ultimately our goal at Google is to have the strongest advertising network and all the world's information, and that's part of our mission.  

OPERATOR: Bob Peck, Bear Stearns.  

BOB PECK, ANALYST, BEAR STEARNS: With Yahoo!'s announcement the other day that they were clearing out some of their affiliates, could you talk a little bit about the impact of your new landing page quality score and what that's designed to do? Number two, could you also talk a little bit more about your progress over at dMarc? When should we expect this to hit financially and see more news around the radio efforts?  

SALAR KAMANGAR: This is Salar. I will speak to the ad quality question. From the beginning, quality has been the hallmark of our ad system. And the very first thing we did was to incorporate signals like clicks rate into the ranking method. Beginning end of last year, we saw that there was a problem where sometimes users would get great creative ads, but the landing pages that they'd be taken to were of lower quality. So beginning in last year, we began incorporating signals from the landing page into the ranking method and the final quality score.  

We had another incremental launch in that spirit earlier this month, and we think the impact of that has been very beneficial to users. It has produced a small number of advertisers that were engaging in arbitrage and other methods that resulted in lower-quality ads, and as a result, has allowed us to show more ads from higher-quality customers. So we expect to keep evolving the quality signal to incorporate more information, including landing page data.  

ERIC SCHMIDT: On the dMarc question, we are in the process of introducing AdSense for radio, which is essentially the integration of the dMarc console and management tools into our advertising network. The dMarc team itself is fully integrated. We're expanding it both in engineering and sales. We're also doing it worldwide, not just in the U.S. There's a number of very, very interesting deals being negotiated. They're on an integration schedule of about three months from now, so every week there are more milestones, and they're working very hard. It's very exciting.  

OPERATOR: Ben Schachter, UBS.  

BEN SCHACHTER, ANALYST, UBS: Congratulations on a very solid quarter. I (indiscernible) if you could give us some insight into your interest in the healthcare field. Should we look for Google to focus on more -- on the consumers seeking information, on healthcare providers conducting business and organizing their information, or are there even broader aspirations in healthcare? Thank you.  

SERGEY BRIN: We've got an interest in healthcare primarily because there have been so many companies and organizations that actually have approached us interested in healthcare, how the kind of technologies that we create could be used to help in their states, countries, and deal with various healthcare issues.  

The first thing that we've done was a part of the launch of Google Co-op, where we improved the quality of our health search. We partnered with a variety of organizations. I'll probably get the list a little bit wrong, but I think it was like NIH, and [NCBI], and organizations such as that -- CDC -- to help us annotate and draw people towards more authoritative sources, or sources more appropriate to them as consumers or doctors, or healthcare providers of various sorts, just to improve the search. And anyway, I think that's a great product that's in its infancy, and we're very excited about it. It's also going to be used in other sectors as well.  

But more broadly, we've seen that healthcare has -- health information has a lot of similarities to the kinds of challenges we deal with in terms of just textual information. And so we would like to make sure that, for this important issue to many people around the world of health, that we're actually able to contribute our technology to solve some of those problems. We don't have a specific plan as of yet, but we're very -- we're exploring a number of areas where we feel our technology could benefit people.  

OPERATOR: Christa Sober Quarles, Thomas Weisel Partners.  

CHRISTA SOBER QUARLES, ANALYST, THOMAS WEISEL PARTNERS: The first question centers on the embedding of conversion data into your search results. I was wondering how far -- or not search results, but rather your ranking algorithms. How far along are you with that, and do you have a desire to develop a CPA product? It sounds like there was some mention of that during the quarter. And also if you could update us on your pay-per-call initiatives. Thanks  

ERIC SCHMIDT: (indiscernible) any confusion, the search results from Google are not affected by the advertising business, and there is no relationship between what the advertising folks are doing -- their ranking, their algorithms, the auction and so forth -- and what many people have called natural search, the normal Google results. So with that, Salar, maybe you could talk about the ad part of this, and how we are using the new signals and so forth for both conversion data as well as pay-per-call.  

SALAR KAMANGAR: On the conversion side, what we've done to date is to put the information power in the hands of the customer through two products. One is a conversion tracking feature (indiscernible) from AdWords, and second is through the Google Analytics product, which is now incorporated fully into the AdWords interface. We want this information to be available to customers in a very real-time manner so that they can immediately adjust their bids if they need to based on changes in conversion rate information.  

On the pay-per-call question, we think that's a very exciting area, because there's a large number of businesses, especially in the longer tail, more local point of businesses, that don't have need for sophisticated Websites, and they rely primarily on phone calls that drive their leads. And we are now doing a small test with a [CPA] product that we've been working on that's running on the content network, and we're going to keep evolving that and (indiscernible) it to improve the product until it's ready to be launched.  

CHRISTA SOBER QUARLES: Just a quick follow-up there. So, you are indeed embedding the conversion information that you're getting from Urchin into the prioritization of the ads, and then that's what's sort of helping you develop the CPA side?  

SALAR KAMANGAR: No, that's very different. That information sits in the hands of the advertisers, and they can adjust their bids if they like. Conversion rate signals are not affecting the ranking.  

OPERATOR: Safa Rashtchy, Piper Jaffray.  

SAFA RASHTCHY, ANALYST, PIPER JAFFRAY: Congratulations on a solid quarter. First, could you -- Eric and everyone -- could you give us your assessment of if you're still gaining market share? And if so, what do you think is contributing to that market share gain? And second, a question on the international front. It seems like two of the potentially largest markets, China and Russia, have posed some challenges where there are frontrunners and you are not number one; they may be one of the few countries where you are not number one. Could you give us your sense of if you are seeing this type of local competition that has captured the top market share elsewhere? And how do you plan to deal with these kind of local players that may be emerging? Thank you.  

OMID KORDESTANI: This is Omid. I think Sergey and I are going to respond to you. We, first of all, believe in terms of the data that's public data that's out there for research companies -- we believe the data is directionally correct. We don't -- our internal estimates differ in terms of precision with that data. In general think we are doing really well in the United States and in Europe, and that, as you mentioned, in some of those local more emerging markets for us, we have more challenges there. And I think the equation there is one we are aware of how to solve. We need local engineering talent. We need local product innovation. And we are busy trying to staff those operations.  

SAFA RASHTCHY: Do you think in the U.S. you are gaining market share? And if so, what's helping you with that?  

SERGEY BRIN: This is Sergey. Maybe I'll take the rest of that. I think we've really accelerated the development of our products, specifically with respect to search. We're just devoting an enormous number of resources to it, and we've made tremendous strides in relevance and comprehensiveness, I think, in ease-of-use, freshness also. And I think the end users really appreciate that and sympathize with that. And I think our reputation has also grown with that. I think that's really helped here.  

I wanted to talk a little bit about some of the other markets you mentioned, Russia and China. And by the way, those are probably not the only two challenging markets for us. Also I would include Korea. There are probably a few others here and there. There have been some unique circumstances in each of those countries. In China, for example, as you know, we have had some connectivity availability and latency issues. There are also some different product needs in that particular country. But we're now getting to be quite well staffed there, and have been addressing some of those. And I think we're making good strides.  

In Russia, which you know, I'm embarrassed to say we're not number one in, but there's a very strong company there, Yandex, which has been very talented. They've been doing search since like 1990 or something. But primarily, Russia has some unique language features, which we've been addressing recently. Some of the recent rollouts have really improved our Russian language search quality, and I hope that will help us. We've also recently opened an engineering office in Moscow, and for a short while we've also had a sales office there. I think we're going to really improve in those geographies, and I hope we continue to improve in some of the others where we're not number one as well.  

OPERATOR: Doug Anmuth, Lehman Brothers.  

DOUG ANMUTH, ANALYST, LEHMAN BROTHERS: I just wanted to follow-up on some of the questions regarding Google Checkout and the CPA potential rollout. I'm wondering to what degree is Google Checkout a step toward a truly success-based pay-per-transaction search model down the line? Thank you.  

ERIC SCHMIDT: I think it's a very interesting idea. That's not what Checkout is today. Checkout is really a mechanism that allows people to more quickly buy products they want to buy. Roughly speaking, it remembers who you are, it provides a level of anonymization, and all of our testing indicates that people are much more likely to purchase from our advertisers if they have enabled Google Checkout. Salar?  

SALAR KAMANGAR: In our CPA trials, we are letting advertisers provide information to us through conversion tracking products that help us with the CPA tracking. But we don't have any plans right now to use Checkout information for anything outside of Checkout. We have a lot of safeguards in place to make sure that the information from users is in their control. For example, Checkout lets users not share their full credit card information with merchants. It lets them not share their e-mail address with merchants. Instead it sets up an e-mail forwarding system. And we will never rent or sell their information to other places. And if we do anything further with the data, we will, as we always do, be very transparent with how we do that in a way that the user has control over.  

OPERATOR: Justin Post, Merrill Lynch.  

JUSTIN POST, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: The Google network revenues were up 58% year over year. Just wondering if you can help us understand whether the majority of the growth was from the strength of existing partners, or did you add several new partners on a year-over-year basis. Secondly, can you just talk a little bit about the macro environment? Certainly, feedback indicates ROI from search has been very strong. With the economy potentially slowing down, how do you think that will affect search spending?  

OMID KORDESTANI: This is Omid. In terms of your question about the partnerships, we are experiencing both growth from some of the key partners that are doing well, or they're promoting the content better. So last quarter specifically, there were several partners that we renewed our partnership with and got better placements on their sites, as well as noticing them doing different implementations of their UI and spending more marketing promoting their sites. So we benefited from those factors. So we're very much busy, both renewing these partnerships and expanding them. I don't think there was any significant new addition. It was a collection of the overall performance and some of these adjustments. And the other question, I think, Eric would like to address.  

ERIC SCHMIDT: On the question about what happens in a potential global economic slowdown to a very strong product like the ROI-based advertising we do, it's of course a matter of speculation what might happen. We do have some experience with this, which was after 9/11 in the United States. Again, the Company was much, much smaller, so I don't know if this is analogous. But a number of us were very concerned that everybody would just stop spending. And during that period, instead of stopping spending, people accelerated their transition to Google, which was, obviously, very positive, but also quite a surprise. And the reason was that when organizations are under stress, they focus on the best economics, because they don't have as many opportunities for -- they have to be much more careful. And we continue to believe that the Google advertising system is literally the best place to put your sales dollars. And so in a global -- in a theoretical global recession such as what you were asking about, I'm sure that we would benefit by the fact that our performance is simply better than the other alternatives.  

JUSTIN POST: Heath Terry, Credit Suisse.  

HEATH TERRY, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: I was wondering if you could talk a little bit specifically about your strategy in Japan. Where is that business relative to, say, the service level that you've rolled out here in the U.S., and how do you view your market share progress there and strategy going forward?  

OMID KORDESTANI: We've actually spent a lot of time on Japan recently, and very much interested in continuing increasing our investments there. I think it's going to happen in multiple fronts. We are very focused on expanding our engineering and product presence there, as well as additional investments in our direct sales force, field sales forces, and service operations. The model is really working well there, and the economy is really improving there, and I think we just hope to be able to execute better to investments.  

We also have been very successful with some recent partnerships -- the KDDI deal that we just announced; also with it had the launch of our mobile ads in Japan. And we think, based on the early results -- it literally launched a day ago -- we are very optimistic about its performance. But we're excited about the market and we'll continue to invest in it.  

OPERATOR: Bill Morrison, JMP Securities.  

HEATH TERRY: I was wondering if you could, kind of from a high level, characterize or break down your sequential growth of 9% in terms of volume and monetization, if possible. Secondly, I was wondering if you guys could comment on the net neutrality debate. You've been out there in front of this leading the charge for net neutrality. Just wondering if you could give us the status of where we are at, how long it might be until there's some resolution. And I'm also curious if you've done any modeling or analysis, if net neutrality were to go away, what kind of an impact it might have on your margins.  

GEORGE REYES: This is George. Teeing up the question around -- you asked around monetization. We had -- early in the quarter we put in place our usual rigor in terms of trying to identify product quality improvements that we could drive. And quite frankly, it was those product improvements that really helped shape the quarter to the 9% growth rate. So we're pretty pleased with that, and of course many of the benefits that we incurred this quarter will spill over into next quarter. This is sort of an every day, every quarter thing, the way we try and drive ad quality improvements.  

SERGEY BRIN: I wanted to discuss the net neutrality question. People, I guess, don't believe us when we say this, but we really care about net neutrality, not for Google as a company, but rather for all the small Internet companies out there. And we remember back in '98, '99, when we were a little company. And the ability to play on equal footing with much larger companies, and have our service accessible equally around the Internet, was really a fantastic opportunity that really allowed us to build the Company.  

Today, we have a fair number of resources at our disposal. We have partnerships with many of the big ISPs as it is. We have good relationships with them. We have a brand that end users are very attracted to. So I don't see it so much as us being affected by a hypothetical end of net neutrality, but rather all those other Internet sites. And of course, being a search company, we really care about them. We want there to be a really healthy Internet ecosystem, and that's why we're fighting hard for net neutrality.  

ERIC SCHMIDT: Larry, you have some opinions about this as well.  

LARRY PAGE: I was just going to add, I think that we have a blessing with the Internet that you can -- this amazing thing where you can connect to any country or any Website, and it works pretty well, and there's actually expectation among all the ISPs and all the people who carry traffic for you that they do as good a job as possible.  

There's been a very concerted marketing effort on the other side of this that the Internet is going to melt down or things like that. And actually, people have been saying that for the last 10 years, and it hasn't happened, because the Internet is an amazing, adaptive system, with many, many people making it all work. And engineers all work hard to make it work reliably, and it has been tremendously reliable and tremendously increased in speed.  

We don't see any issues -- we're delivering a lot of video. We don't see any issues with the video we're delivering, or any of the other services potentially having issues. We don't think that's an issue at all. And we think the Internet will continue to grow tremendously as it is.  

I'd also point out that it's largely been driven in countries where -- like the U.S., where we have very poor last-mile connections for users, much slower than in countries like South Korea, which has spent less money and has much better connections, and haven't been pushing for net neutrality -- for elimination of net neutrality.  

OPERATOR: Jordan Rohan, RBC.  

JORDAN ROHAN, ANALYST, RBC: I was hoping you could give me a little bit of insight into the progress that's being made in mobile advertising. It seems like mobile advertising is an area of much promise, yet little advertising revenue worldwide. Can you cite some examples -- and I realize they may have to be in Korean markets or Japanese markets, or areas outside the U.S. -- where mobile advertising is really helping to drive consumers into retail locations, and whether or not Google has been able to take advantage of that? Thank you.  

OMID KORDESTANI: I mentioned this one earlier, where our partnership with KDDI in Japan is a really good example of us being focused on this space, and having very good results in the last day or so that we have launched the service. We do believe that we have tremendous advantage here. We understand search really well. And on mobile devices, the usage model is about finding information rather than browsing, and obviously, also the network of advertisers, which is very much global and strong. And we can easily adapt that model to the mobile devices and make that network of advertisers flow into these different platforms.  

So it's exactly what you said -- we believe in this potential. Mobile devices are the primary usage device in a lot of these countries. And the combination of search capability and the targeting abilities that we have, and the existing knowledge that we have, is going to really be a great advantage for us.  

LARRY PAGE: I was just going to add -- there are significant size markets now selling digital goods in places like Asia, which are things like ringtones and games for your phones and things like that, that are also being driven by advertising.  

OPERATOR: Denise Garcia, WR Hambrecht.  

DENISE GARCIA, ANALYST, WR HAMBRECHT: Congratulations on that impressive quarter. Wondering if you could talk about new types of advertising platforms that you're moving into. I know we just got a question on mobile, but I'm also curious about video, and also the CPA program that you have. And you had mentioned that part of the strength in the Google model is that your advertising is priced on this ROI sort of basis. And I'm wondering if these other -- in these other platforms you might be pricing them on a CPM basis, or moving into other types of pricing strategies, and how that might affect your overall business as these other platforms grow, and how you see the growth there.  

SALAR KAMANGAR: We really have two different focus areas. One is, again, on the smaller advertisers, where our products like pay-per-call, we think, will make a big difference, as well as simplification of the AdWords system. We have launched several improvements to AdWords to make it easier for an advertiser to figure out which keywords to choose and figure out how to bid. The most recent thing was the AdWords Starter Edition, which greatly reduces the number of steps needed to get an advertiser on Google.  

On the other side, we're trying to keep -- we want to keep increasing both the ad types as well as the different placement areas for advertisers. One of the interesting things about our model is that advertisers often have set budgets that are much higher than we're able to deliver to. So it's really up to us to have [past] quality improvements and look for new sources of inventory to help increase the number of customers to these businesses.  

LARRY PAGE: I just wanted to add, I think there's already starting to be a fair amount of complexity in how -- all the different kinds of customers we have, and how they pay, and which models they use and so on. And I expect that that will continue, and we'll continue to have different products for different kinds of advertisers with different ways of paying. I know there's a lot of talk about the CPA, or paying per purchase. One of the issues with that is you actually -- people look around a lot before they buy something. So it's probably not the only information you want to look at when you're paying for advertising. But we're also excited about using more data like that in our models.  

OPERATOR: Youssef Squali, Jeffries & Company.  

YOUSSEF SQUALI, ANALYST, JEFFRIES & COMPANY: Eric, can you just speak to the success of your display product? I'm thinking particularly about (indiscernible), which didn't get much of a mention today. How big is it? And in relationship to the overall growth of the business, did it grow faster or slower? And second, George, you've spent, I guess by my math, about somewhere between 700 and $750 million on what I would call maintenance CapEx in the first half of the year. Is that a good run rate for the year, understanding that, obviously, does not include some of the real estate investments you just made?  

OMID KORDESTANI: Let me take the first part of that, which is the display advertising question and [side] targeting. We are actually very busy with our sales force approaching all of our customer base, and really going through the education process, the optimization, creating custom channels for these advertisers to reach the kind of -- the metrics and goals that they have. And we are having success. It is not something that we can kind of broadly talk about yet. We are waiting to really gain more experience in different verticals from a different set of customers. We have customers that are pretty big advertisers with us that -- they really like the results they're seeing, and the learning is really helping both of us expand here. So I agree, we haven't talked about it much. And I think we would like to wait until we have more success under our belt and more customers, and more performance to talk about.  

ERIC SCHMIDT: Salar, you have an example of this.  

SALAR KAMANGAR: One of the more recent things that we worked on is on the video ad side. We already accept video ads in any format, convert them into flash, and display them in our network. And one of the more recent things that we've released is a click-to-play video, where a user has a choice of clicking on the image, which will trigger a Google Video-based ad. And I think what's interesting about this is it's very consistent with the philosophy we have with (indiscernible) advertising types. We want to make sure that it's something that adds value to the user, that it's something that the user is choosing to do. And when you have this type of approach, I think it leads to higher conversion rates and higher satisfaction of the advertisers.  

GEORGE REYES: On your question around CapEx, Eric just had a wonderful suggestion, which is to blame it on Larry and Sergey, all this CapEx that we're adding. But realistically, we think we can't put too much CapEx into the system. It's a really critical part of our competitive advantage and our infrastructure. And it's something that you're going to continue to see quite substantial investment going forward over the next few quarters.  

YOUSSEF SQUALI: No acceleration or deceleration?  

GEORGE REYES: There will be definitely an acceleration.  

OPERATOR: Mark May, Needham & Company.  

MARK MAY, ANALYST, NEEDHAM & COMPANY: With regard to your partnerships program, and in particular the Toolbar distribution deals -- I think you referenced that in your prepared remarks -- can you walk through the benefit of spending, for example, $24 million in a quarter for Toolbar distribution, maybe how many incremental new customers do you estimate that you can acquire through spending that amount? And what is the impact on usage and, ultimately, revenue from customers that you acquire through these agreements? That's the only question. Thanks.  

OMID KORDESTANI: We will take a look at all of these deals very, very carefully, and want to make sure that they are strategic for us. It is about giving users access to our search capabilities, and creating a more personalized browsing experience, and the various search access points that a user may have when they either purchase a PC or download a new application, that they get to have access to our services, and not only grow our search market share, but protect it.  

As I mentioned earlier, in all of these deals, we do a very sophisticated set of analysis on understanding the long-term value of the user to us, the incremental revenue we are generating, or in some cases the kind of revenue that we may be cannibalizing, and really take all of those factors into effect, and make sure that this makes business sense for us and (indiscernible) that revenue with the partners.  

LARRY PAGE: I was just going to add, (indiscernible) maybe acknowledged this (indiscernible) our competitors -- we have very, very strong monetization on search. And this gives us a nice benefit when we're negotiating these kind of deals to make them both a win for the partner and for us.  

ERIC SCHMIDT: Thanks Omid, thanks Larry, thanks Sergey, thanks George, thanks Salar, thanks Kim. We've reached the end of our time. I wanted to make sure that at the end of this call we emphasized that Google really is committed to providing the best end user search experience worldwide. And that's not just on PCs or Macintoshes; it's on every device against every piece of content. And we're going to continue to get better and better at providing the best and most relevant search. It is the core part of what we do. We use feedback from customers, we use -- as we test our products, and we're always going to stay true to that with respect to the products that we have now and the many, many products coming up in the future. So with that, thank you very, very much.  

OPERATOR: That concludes today's call. Thank you for your participation. You may disconnect at this time.  

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]  

   CO
goog : Google Inc.
   IN
i8395464 : Internet Search Engines | iint : Internet/Online Services
   NS
c15 : Performance | c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
Voxant, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020060803e27k002e8
  


 HD
 Q1  2006 Google Earnings Conference Call - Final  
   WC
10,862 words
   PD
20 April 2006
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.    

   LP
OPERATOR: Good day, everyone, and welcome to the Google, Inc. first-quarter 2006 earnings conference call. This call is being recorded. With us today from the Company is the Chief Executive Officer, Dr. Eric Schmidt; the Co-founder and President of Technology, Mr. Sergey Brin; the Co-founder and President, Products, Mr. Larry Page; and the Chief Financial Officer, Mr. George Reyes.  

At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Ms. Kim Jabal, Director of Investor Relations.  

   TD
KIM JABAL, DIRECTOR OF IR, GOOGLE: Hello. Welcome to our first-quarter 2006 earnings call. As mentioned, on the call today are Eric Schmidt, our Chief Executive Officer; George Reyes, Chief Financial Officer; Larry Page, Founder and President of Products; Sergey Brin, Founder and President of Technology; and Jonathan Rosenberg, Senior Vice President of Product Management.  

This call is being webcast from our investor relations website. Additionally, our press release issued a few moments ago is now posted on our website. A replay of this call will be available within a few hours.  

Some of the comments we will make today are forward-looking, including statements regarding the prospects for growth in online advertising and our ability to track the business of larger advertisers, the seasonality of our business, our expected capital expenditures for 2006, our expected stock-based compensation expense, possible future compression in our net and operating margins, the expected dilution related to the equity grants to employees and our ability to extend targeted and measurable advertising to radio. These statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated by these forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include a variety of factors, some of which are beyond our control. These forward-looking statements speak as of today, and you should not rely on them as representing our views in the future, and we undertake no obligation to update these statements after this call.  

Please refer to our SEC filings, including our report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005, as well as our earnings release posted a few minutes ago on our website, for a more detailed description of the risk factors that may affect our results. Copies of these documents may be obtained from the SEC or by visiting the investor relations section of our website.  

Also, please note that certain financial measures we use on this call such as EPS, net income, operating margin, operating income and free cash flow will be expressed on a non-GAAP basis, and have been adjusted to exclude charges related to stock-based compensation and estimated plaintiffs' attorneys' fees related to the proposed settlement of the Lane's Gift class-action lawsuit. We also report our GAAP results as well as provide non-GAAP results on a supplemental basis in our earnings release. Reconciliations of all non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP financial measures are also included in the earnings release, which may be obtained by visiting the investor relations section of our website.  

And with that, I'll turn the call over to Eric.  

ERIC SCHMIDT, CHAIRMAN OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE, CEO, GOOGLE: Well, thank you very much, Kim. We are obviously very happy with our Q1 results. The Company is very much executing against the strategy we have told you about. We basically have good news across the board, across the whole business. We have made a lot of progress on what we consider to be our highest strategic priority, both search quality and end-user traffic. And it looks to us like we continue to gain market share. There's a recent Keynote study, for example, that concluded that Google was number one in overall user search experience and, of course, in local search and image search. Our own internal estimates show that we're gaining share in all of our key markets in the US, UK and newer markets like India. Third-party data seems to support all of the trends that we see internally.  

I should point out that we believe that the audience reach we offer our advertisers across Google.com and all our network sites is very much the largest in the world. We provide an unmatched audience breadth for our advertisers, and this of course is why so many are coming to Google. And I don't think this is generally understood, is how big our reach really is.  

Our international gains were very, very strong this quarter as we expect that, of course, to continue. Europe is doing extremely well for us, much larger offices in the United Kingdom, France and Germany. We organize them by industry vertical. We brought out a new practice involving our agencies called Best Practice Funding with near 100% signup rate, and a bunch of changes in the way we work with our advertisers that are consistent with what we have done in the United States, and are producing much better performance for them and much better economics for Google. All of us, the majority of us, were recently in China, where we announced among other things a launch of our major R&D center in Beijing and a new Chinese name for all of our Chinese properties, and we expect lots of good news there shortly.  

In the area that we really focus on, which is the end user and the end-user value proposition, Larry is going to talk a lot through the products that we have done. I wanted to highlight some of the progress we have made in mobile, which is another big strategic area for us. We have a transcoder now that will go from one format to another. Google Maps, of course, is incredibly successful now on Blackberries, (technical difficulty) mobile and many, many more deals coming with leading mobile providers -- big, big new area for us and something we have been working on for about a year.  

We also talked in our financial analyst meeting about locally targeted ads, and that is an increasingly meaningful contributor to revenues. We just launched, for example, local business ads. And there's much more coming as we combine advertising and local and mobile in some interesting and new ways.  

A couple of other quick things -- as everybody knows, we were added to the S&P 500; we're very delighted to have been added there. And along the way, we were able to raise 2.1 billion for general corporate purposes, future investments and acquisitions. If you look in the history -- you look, for example, at the AOL deal, where we ended up with a great opportunity to invest $1 billion, those opportunities come along. And if they come along, we now have sufficient cash to be able to take advantage of them if they make sense. Indeed, that one did.  

So what you are seeing as a result of our strategy is value for end users and value for shareholders. We're excited for that, for obvious reasons.  

Three process comments for you. As everybody knows, we have a seasonality in our business. We have talked about this every year. It's been true for the six or seven years the Company has been around. It's more and more pronounced. Q2 and Q3 have slower revenue growth. This is basically because basically after Memorial Day, in the early part of June, traffic slows and doesn't really pick up until mid-August or so. So it affects Q2 -- the latter part of Q2 and the early part of Q3. And we are, of course, going to continue to invest during this period.  

We also -- of course, there's been a lot of debate about this -- are going to continue to not give forward guidance, as per our long-term policy. We are looking on greater transparency for what we do, and we're going to continue to experiment with new ways that work with you and other important stakeholders in our community. We are, for example, planning to have some more informal Q&A sessions over the next year as we can arrange them. We're also going to try to shorten our comments today so we can have even more time for Q&A. Please give us your feedback about how this works and what is the right balance. We do want to do this the right way.  

So with that, I'd be delighted to turn this over to George.  

GEORGE REYES, SVP, CFO, GOOGLE: Thanks, Eric. As Eric suggested, we are very pleased with our Q1 results, which again demonstrate the strength of our business model. We continue to execute on both the top line and the bottom line, as we rapidly scale and make careful and measured investments in our business. Revenue growth was very healthy, increasing 79% year over year to 2.3 billion. We saw strong performance in many of our vertical and across many geographies, as well as substantial growth in our advertiser base.  

To highlight a few verticals that did very well in North America, the retail, technology and finance verticals all increased as a percentage of revenues since Q1 of '05. We're also very happy with the continued growth in our Google site revenues, which were up 97% over Q1 of '05. We also benefited from favorable traffic trends during Q1, as well as continued gains in monetization.  

Our network business also performed well. AdSense revenues grew 59% year over year, and were also correlated with increased traffic and gains in monetization. New publishers participating in the AdSense for Content program were significant in driving revenue growth. And the AdSense referrals program we launched in Q4 is supporting this growth in our publisher base. We also strengthened and renewed relationships with several search partners, and are pushing forward with international expansion of the AdSense program.  

Now, let me turn to international results. We were very pleased with the performance of our international operations. Revenues from our international business were 936 million or 42% of our total revenues, up from 38% in Q4. Like last year in Q1, international revenues jumped as a percentage of revenues relative to Q4. In terms of foreign exchange, rate changes had an immaterial impact on our quarter-over-quarter international revenue growth. However, had foreign exchange rates remained constant from Q1 of '05 through Q1 of '06, our international revenues this quarter would have been $65 million higher.  

Let's take a bit of a geographic tour through revenues now. Revenues from the UK were 343 million or 15% of revenue, up from 14% in Q4. In the UK, France, the Netherlands and the Nordic region, all exhibited particular strength in both traffic and monetization. The UK also benefited from an expected rebound in the travel and finance verticals in Q1.  

We're also continuing to see returns on our investments in local sales offices around the world. For instance, since opening local offices in Sweden, Norway and Denmark over the last 18 months, we have seen tremendous growth in monetization in the Nordic region. This growth is largely driven by the sales and marketing activities of these local offices.  

Let's now move onto the P&L highlights for the quarter. Revenue less traffic acquisition or net revenue was $1.5 billion, with TAC of 723 million or 32% of advertising revenues. Other cost of revenues, which is comprised primarily of data center costs, operational expenses including depreciation expense as well as credit card processing charges, increased to 181 million or roughly 8% of revenues. Other cost of revenues in Q1 also included 2 million in stock-based compensation.  

Let me now turn to operating expenses, which in aggregate totaled 607 million this quarter. Operating expenses other than cost of revenues included 284 million in headcount-related and facilities expenses, 112 million in stock-based compensation and 50 million in advertising and promotional expenses, of which 25 million was related to distribution deals. Also included was a charge of 30 million related to our estimate of plaintiffs' attorneys' fees we expect to pay to settle the Lane's Gifts class-action suit, which we have excluded from our non-GAAP results.  

Please keep in mind that stock-based compensation is now included in each of the operating expense line items, as well as in other cost of revenues. We have excluded the stock-based compensation portion of each of these line items from our non-GAAP results.  

For the full year, we now expect stock-based compensation charges for grants to employees prior to April 1st of 2006 to be roughly $370 million. This does not include expenses to be recognized over the remainder of the year related to employee stock awards that are granted after April 1st or non-employee stock awards that have been or may be granted going forward.  

Turning to profitability, non-GAAP operating profit, which excludes stock-based compensation and estimated plaintiffs' attorneys' fees related to the class-action suit, was very strong at 887 million, with non-GAAP operating margins of 39%. You should continue to expect potential for compression in net and operating margins as we go forward and invest in the business.  

Our total cash position remained strong at 8.4 billion as of March 31st, with net cash from operating activities of 825 million or 36% of gross revenue. Our quarter-end cash balance does not reflect the proceeds of $2.1 billion from our recent offering that closed in early April, and does not reflect the $1 billion investment in AOL, as it, too, closed in Q2.  

To clarify the share count calculation, our quarter-end share count does not include the 5.3 million shares we issued in the offering. This share count increase will be incremental to the 1 to 1.5% dilution we expect from employee stock awards.  

On the CapEx front, we continue to invest aggressively in our global infrastructure, which we believe is one of our most important competitive advantages. In Q1, CapEx was 345 million. We expect that CapEx growth rate in 2006 will be substantially greater than the revenue growth rate for the year. We expect the majority of investments to be focused on IT infrastructure, including servers, networking equipment and data centers, as well as real estate and campus facilities.  

So, to close, we are extremely pleased with the results we have been able to achieve this quarter. And now, I'll turn it over to Larry.  

LARRY PAGE, CO-FOUNDER & PRESIDENT, PRODUCTS, GOOGLE: Thank you, George. We had a great quarter with respect to our products, due to the hard work of all of our teams, and I am very excited about that. Our focus remains on providing the best user experience. The first quarter, we reached an all-time low on search SPAM and an all-time high on search quality. We provided more comprehensive and faster index. Structured data was integrated from Google Base into our main Search.  

We also introduced several innovative new client applications to make Google functionality easier to reach from the desktop. Google Desktop 3 enables search across multiple computers and sharing of content through the sidebar. The Google Toolbar 4 beta allows users to build custom buttons to run queries directly on any website, create online bookmarks to receive queries directly on any website, and also feeds directly from their toolbar. We also made Toolbar 2.0 for Firefox available in the first quarter. Google Pack makes it easy for users to get essential software in just a few clicks, and aims to make it as easy as just using software on the Web. And just recently, we released Google Calendar, a Web-based application that helps people organize their busy lives and allows websites and groups to share and publicize information.  

We also introduced several early-release applications that push the bounds of browser capability. Now, with Google Finance, you can drag [stock-based] graphs around just like you can with Google Maps, you can move the maps around. And those graphs are even labeled with relevant new. It is really a lot of fun to use. Page Creator is a free and easy to use browser-based tool for creating and hosting attractive Web pages. And we integrated chat into Gmail, which was a first in terms of offering users seamless communication experience in the browser. Lastly, in terms of meeting the needs of our business customers, we introduced three new Google Mini search appliances with capacities and price points designed to meet the needs and budgets of a wide range of businesses.  

We got a lot done and continue to work very hard on our products. And I would like to turn the call over to Sergey.  

SERGEY BRIN, CO-FOUNDER & PRESIDENT, TECHNOLOGY, GOOGLE: Thanks, Larry. The first quarter of 2006 saw a significant amount of activity in opportunistic acquisitions, global expansion of our presence and notable additions to our leadership team. Our commitment to enhance our products and services via acquisition of unique and groundbreaking technologies continued in the first quarter. The purchase of dMarc Broadcasting allows us to extend targeted and measurable advertising to radio by directly connecting advertisers to radio stations through dMarc's automated advertising platform. We also acquired Upstartle, maker of Writely, the Web word processor that helps people access, edit and share their documents from any computer on the Internet via their browser.  

In a step toward achieving our vision of mirroring the real world with a realistic virtual world where users can see and interact with all of the world's geographic information, we acquired @Last Software, creators of the personal 3-D authoring tool, SketchUp. In the first quarter, we renewed our partnerships with EarthLink, Comcast, NTT, Nextag and [Tensent] and signed new deals Sony Ericsson, Vodafone, SingTel, WashingtonPost.com and Clear Channel. And of course, we finalize the extension of our partnership with AOL and are very pleased to broaden and deepen our relationship with them.  

As part of our effort to get closer to our users, customers and top engineering talent, in the first quarter we expanded our presence on a global basis. We opened R&D centers in Moscow, Trondheim, Denmark, Tel Aviv and Taipei. In addition, we opened offices in Mumbai and Delhi, and announced plans to open an office in Tempe, Arizona on the campus of Arizona State University.  

Finally, I was very pleased that we were able to hire Dr. Larry Brilliant as Executive Director of our philanthropic efforts known as Google.org. Larry is a renowned physician, technologist and specialist in international health, who is uniquely suited to lead our efforts to tackle the gravest of the world's problems in the areas of global poverty, health, energy and the environment.  

Eric, back to you.  

ERIC SCHMIDT: Thank you very, very much, Sergey. As a sort of a wrap-up, my personal view on all of this is that Google is now the world's fastest innovator at scale, and that the 70-20-10 model and the 20% time that we have talked about for a long time, combined with a broad strategy and excellent business model, is providing the raw material for an increased pace of innovation. The number of products and markets that we offer is increasing the scale, as we are just at the beginning of the Internet revolution, this bodes very well for our future and the future as a whole.  

We continue to invest in technology, capital and business deals to further our relatively simple goal of organizing all the world's information. This quest is not a short-term one, and we expect strong continued growth in innovation in the space for very long time to come. As life online with Google becomes more and more commonplace, we should see increasing benefits to everyone including, of course, our shareholders. And that's great news. So with that, thank you very much.  

We are going to be joined in our Q&A session with Jonathan Rosenberg, who is the Senior Vice President of Products. And Kim, shall we begin? Or maybe with the operator we should begin.  

OPERATOR: (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS). Safa Rashtchy, Piper Jaffray.  

SAFA RASHTCHY, ANALYST, PIPER JAFFRAY: Congratulations on another great quarter. A couple of quick questions. As you all noted, you have been significantly expanding your product lines well beyond Search, of course, to a number of applications. But also on the advertising, you have embarked on providing advertising on the CPM base, then graphical base. Can you give us a sense of the revenues that you are generating from these areas and/or what you would expect over the next 12 months or so from these new initiatives? And in particular, maybe a subset of that, you could expand on is, what do you expect from Google Base, as well as the broader advertising network that you are working on?  

ERIC SCHMIDT: It is correct that we are investing in these new advertising sources; you highlighted a number of them. And we expect them to be a significant component of our revenue in the future. Today, they are not. They are growing from relatively small bases. The most successful new revenue sources that we get are where we take the existing ad network and apply it to something new, like AdSense for Content. Some of these even newer things like the CPM ads are still in largely a beta test mode.  

Jonathan, do you want to add your perspective?  

JONATHAN ROSENBERG, SVP, PRODUCT MANAGEMENT, GOOGLE: Sure. With respect to the CPM ads, we're definitely seen a lot of progress, particularly with some of the large brand advertisers with site targeting. We have also added some capabilities there to do some demographic-based targeting efforts, and they have the option there on our AdSense network of using a variety of these graphical ad techniques. The main customers who seem to be having the most success with this tend to be in the entertainment business. I've seen lots of examples of companies such as Paramount and a number of other movie Studios -- I think Fox did a great campaign with the Fantastic Four.  

So I think we're just getting started there. I think the real challenge is in the auction. It's hard to come up with ways for those graphically oriented ads to trump the traditional word and text-based ads in the auction, simply because of the relative probability that they are going to be clicked on versus a number of good small text-based ads. And no one has really conquered the economics there to get more of the graphical stuff moving aggressively.  

OPERATOR: Mary Meeker, Morgan Stanley.  

MARY MEEKER, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Eric, you talked about your mobile transcoder, and this may be a strange question to have at the beginning of the call. But could you talk a little bit about the competitive landscape there? And it seems like this provides you with a big competitive advantage in what could be a very, very large market. And when you think about it at a high level, the way Google Search kind of transformed the way people use the Internet and sort of reignited growth in the Internet, do you think that the products and services that you are offering in the mobile market that will allow people to get content easily, more effectively, in the right format for the user interface that's there could do something similar in the mobile market in the next 12 to 18 to 24 months?  

ERIC SCHMIDT: Well, of course, this is why we did the transcoder. It makes a lot of sense to try to get all of that information that is out there automatically and in fact dynamically translated into a format that will work on your phone. There are multiple formats that are available on phones. There's an older phone called WAP technology, and there is a newer technology called XHTML, and there are others coming. It is strategic to us to make sure that all the content is available on all the phones. Indeed, we have entered these partnerships. The notion of a transcoder is not a new one; we just think we have a better one than anybody else.  

MARY MEEKER: And we expect to see more partnerships announced in the coming months?  

ERIC SCHMIDT: Absolutely.  

OPERATOR: Imran Khan, JPMorgan.  

IMRAN KHAN, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Eric, you talked at the beginning that UK market share and the US and across the world, and I was wondering, in one of your conference call, one of your competitors said they have been seeing consistent query volume growth of 15 to 20% in the US market. Can you just confirm in this call are you getting query volume and arrange an hour at a range in the US market of faster that, or have you seen any deceleration in the query volume growth?  

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: I think all I can really say is that I see the same external data that you guys do, and obviously we have our own internal data that we don't actually share. What we can see is that the external data seems to us to be directionally correct. So it appears that we are gaining market share in virtually all markets, and that is consistent with the external trends that have been publicly stated.  

IMRAN KHAN: Actually, I think the Company disclosed that -- or Yahoo disclosed that they grew the query volume 15 to 20% at the call, so it's actually coming from the Company. So I was wondering if you guys can give some range, maybe for the first time, or additional ones like (multiple speakers) query volume growth you are seeing?  

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: I appreciate your interest. I cannot narrow down the range specifically.  

OPERATOR: Mark Mahaney, Citigroup.  

MARK MAHANEY, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Maybe I would like to ask about one market where you may not be gaining share, and that's the China market. Do you think you're gaining share in queries there? I guess the third-party data probably doesn't indicate that. I know it has been a major emphasis of yours recently. Are there new initiatives we should look for out of that market?  

ERIC SCHMIDT: Having just returned from China, I think the market is up for grabs. And most of the surveys indicate that we are not in the number-one position, we're in the number-two position, and roughly holding and/or maybe gaining share in a small amount. Part of the reason that we're investing so heavily in China is because we think that the now 110 million people online in China, and soon to be many hundreds and probably many more than in the United States, will ultimately be big consumers of Google information.  

In order to do that, we felt that the most expeditious thing -- in addition, obviously, to having a presence in the country and working on connectivity and those sorts of things -- is to, in fact, have an R&D center. And the quality of the technical talent that's available in China is just phenomenal.  

So in the short term, you'll see the formation of the R&D center, which we have announced. And those engineers will be improving query performance, services and in fact new products for the Chinese market. And we believe that the sum of those will materially change the dynamics in the Chinese market.  

OPERATOR: Christa Quarles, Thomas Weisel Partners.  

CHRISTA QUARLES, ANALYST, THOMAS WEISEL PARTNERS: I was wondering if you could discuss your philosophical approach to being a destination site, versus a place where people kind of figure out where they want to go and then go there. Obviously, you launched Finance, you have Video. Are you in a position where you eventually would think about paying for content, or would it be better to kind of go the vertical search route, for example?  

LARRY PAGE: I'll try to address that. We really don't think about it that way, and we are trying hard, all of our teams are working hard to find user needs that are not being met at all. And I think there is a natural tendency to keep about the Internet and computing space as largely discovered; we're going to develop products that are similar to what other people have. But if you had asked me to predict five years ago, even when we were fairly far along as a company, the kinds of things that we would be doing now, I wouldn't have been able to predict very well. And many of the things that you see of the Internet with respect to advertising or other areas have been very innovative and have not been predictable.  

So in general, we're looking for areas where we can innovate, where we can meet really substantial user needs. And those are general areas that are not being addressed well, at all, now. And so I don't think we think about it that way in terms of destination. We're looking for places where we have leverage that will matter to our users and will be a good business for us, and we expect to be rapidly expanding that innovation.  

OPERATOR: Ben Schachter, UBS.  

BEN SCHACHTER, ANALYST, UBS: Congratulations on an outstanding quarter. Just a quick question on the experiment that you are running with Dell right now. I was wondering if you could talk about how large that may or may not be, how the accounting works for that and how is it different from deals you may have done in the past with other OEMs.  

And then also a question on the pay-per-call model -- understanding that you have negotiated some things with AOL and that AOL, arguably, with their partner, Ingenio, has been a leader in that. I was wondering if you're going to be working with them on a pay-per-call, or if you think you are going to go out on your own and be a more competitor with them.  

SERGEY BRIN: I wanted to discuss our Dell experiments, and then someone else may take the pay-per-call question. On the Dell side, we're continually working with computer manufacturers to make Google more quickly accessible to end users. And with the Dell experiments that have been underway for a while, we actually have probably pushed larger amounts of software than some of the others, including Desktop as well as Toolbar and the start page and things like that.  

And I'm excited that we continue to try things like that. I believe that computer users should have as great an experience out of the box with a new PC as possible, and so we're trying to bring that great software to manufacturers, so just right out of the box you have Google in a way that works and works well. And the Google Pack is also another vehicle for allowing new computer users as well as old to have a good out-off-the-box experience by making it easy to download some of the key components that you might need.  

So that's the basic strategy. I don't have any relationship or business deals to report. The accounting George might speak to, if he has anything to add to that. And I will leave it at that. Jonathan?  

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: George, nothing on accounting? Okay. On the click-to-call, I think you are basically referring to just some very early alpha testing that we have been doing with this product that lets you speak directly to an advertiser that you can find through the results on a Google search page. And its basically free; you do it over the phone. We've really only just started on trying to test this. I think it's a very exciting model, because it's a model where you are much closer to consummating the transaction when you actually engage in the activity and go to the advertiser. So advertisers are very excited about it, because it's actually a model where you're delivering a customer that has very high odds of engaging in a transaction.  

In terms of working with our partners, as is the case with all of our products, these are going to be opportunities for our partners to make a choice with respect to whether or not they want to work with us. We've had great success with AOL; they have been one of our biggest long-time partners. We will generally offer this kind of functionality to a partner, and then let them decide what they want to do from a product perspective on their own.  

OPERATOR: Robert Peck, Bear Stearns.  

ROBERT PECK, ANALYST, BEAR STEARNS: Great quarter. I just have a question on spending and how you look at it going forward. First of all, are you able to give any more detail to us, even geography-based or more specific, on the CapEx?  

And following up on the previous question, are you able to give us a little more detail around the economics of the Dell deal?  

And lastly, would Google be interested in any of the wireless spectrum coming up this summer?  

GEORGE REYES: I'll take the first part of it. As we have discussed the topic of CapEx over the last two to three years, what we believe and have believed for a long time is that these investments will pay off very handsomely, and it will further strengthen sort of the competencies that we have. So we're going to continue to invest at a rate that is substantially higher than what we did last year, and we believe it will sort of pay back in spades.  

LARRY PAGE: I'll address the wireless piece. We have started some experiments in San Francisco and Mountain View to provide Wi-Fi access. And in general, we're interested in any way we can provide better, more transparent access to the Internet to our users, thinking that will be good for our business and generally a good thing. We have not announced any plans with regards to spectrum or anything like that. But like I said, we are generally interested in improving access to the Internet.  

ROBERT PECK: And any economic details on the Dell deal?  

ERIC SCHMIDT: Let's just say that in the trial, both companies have done well.  

OPERATOR: Anthony Noto, Goldman Sachs.  

ANTHONY NOTO, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Eric, I was wondering if you could talk, or Jonathan, a little bit about -- we hear from advertisers about unspent budgets quite a bit, and we have heard a number thrown around in the advertising community of about $1 billion for Google that people put into the system and don't get spent. Could you talk a little bit about initiatives to unlock that value? I know you are not going to quantify that number, but do you think there is a lot of potential there in different formats and new verticals, et cetera?  

And then, second question, George, housekeeping -- by my math, I can get into EBITDA of close to $1 billion, a little over $1 billion. And there has been some other numbers thrown around the Street that are below that. I just want to clarify that that's correct, which would imply a pretty healthy EBITDA margin of about 65.4%. Could you give us any sense on margins throughout the year? The CapEx number is significantly higher, creates a range that is pretty wide. And I was just wondering if you could give us any sense for what is the downside of margins? Could it be below 64 or not?  

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: Let me start with the budget issues and sort of just generally some of issues with respect to headroom and opportunities for garnering more of those dollars from our advertisers. The first issue with respect to the budget is a little bit of a legacy of the way the systems are architected. Advertisers have a strong incentive to put in a budget that is substantially greater than their actual spend. And they do that, of course, because the gross margin on each of the clicks that they receiving from us are positive, and the rate of change in terms of that margin on incremental clicks is pretty close to constant, because it's such a large system. So what the advertisers tend to do is put in an artificially high budget that ensures that, on any given day, their campaigns continue to run.  

Now, that said, there are lots of opportunities for us to spend larger fractions of that budget. Certainly, one is to expand the scope of the network and the reach of our sites. But probably the most significant opportunity is just improving the statistical algorithms associated with how we target ads. So anything that we do to ensure that we serve a better ad to one of those advertisers is going to get us more budget and more budget from whichever advertiser is the best advertiser.  

So I think, if you run a lot of searches, you'll see actually that although we have the strongest monetization systems in the industry, the ads are actually still pretty primitive. And there are a large number of ways, we believe, to continue to target the ads a lot better.  

GEORGE REYES: And the answer to your question -- EBITDA was about $1 billion.  

ANTHONY NOTO: How about the margin portion of that question relative to CapEx?  

GEORGE REYES: The margin portion relative to CapEx? Can you --?  

ANTHONY NOTO: Well, I guess (multiple speakers) your CapEx guidance basically says that it's going to increase significantly faster than revenue. And as we think about CapEx throughout this year, that gives us a ballpark to range CapEx. We don't know what you're going to spend outside of CapEx, and so we can forecast revenue pretty well, or think we can forecast revenue pretty well by all these third-party data sources and our own channel checks, but we can't forecast what you are going to spend. (Multiple speakers) willing to give us something on CapEx or give us something on other spending?  

GEORGE REYES: What you're asking for sounds like a little bit of forward guidance that I don't really want to get into.  

ANTHONY NOTO: Basically, I was basically looking for other expenses, other than CapEx, to try to get to an EBITDA margin.  

ERIC SCHMIDT: Why don't we take that one off-line. Sergey, do you want to answer the other part (multiple speakers)?  

SERGEY BRIN: Yes, I wanted to speak briefly about this issue of budgets. In fact, we see the greater opportunity is not the people who are under budgets, but rather the people who are budget-limited currently. Because for those advertisers, all we need to do is get them to increase their budget limits, which oftentimes are -- they just set it a long time ago, or they didn't really think about it. There are a lot of weird reasons. And they will right away start spending more. So we actually view the budget-limited advertisers as a great opportunity.  

OPERATOR: Youssef Squali, Jefferies.  

YOUSSEF SQUALI, ANALYST, JEFFERIES: Can you theoretically, I guess, fully participate in the growth of branded advertising or display ad revenues, which arguably is seeing a nice acceleration, over the next several years, by only really leveraging your network, not the Google properties? So historically you have said that you will not have these display ads on your Google properties.  

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: I may let Larry follow-up philosophically on this, because he probably is the one with the strongest vision in terms of how we will monetize our own site. I think there are lots of opportunities, particularly outside Search, where some of the branded efforts might make some sense, and we would certainly be open to looking at branding efforts in some of those areas. Within Search, the dynamic tends to be that the value and the tell, with respect to what the user is interested, is so great that there is not a lot of value in trying to substitute a branded-based advertisement for a search-based advertisement, given the amount the advertiser is willing to pay. But in terms of other properties I think there is certainly lots of opportunities, potentially, in the social networking space and potentially in other products that we have yet developed. So certainly I would not rule it out. I'll let Larry cover his philosophical issues here.  

LARRY PAGE: I don't think we have any philosophical issues with respect to branded advertising on our own sites. Certainly, anything we gave to network sites, we would be happy to use ourselves in the proper places. Search itself, as Jonathan mentioned, is maybe not the optimal place for that. But we have many, many other properties now, including Video and all sorts of other -- Orkut and e-mail and many other types of things, too, that would we would be open to.  

We should note, too, that the network that we have is very, very large. And that's part of our strength as a business.  

YOUSSEF SQUALI: On the Wi-Fi initiative, you have a deal going on with EarthLink. That deal, from what we understand, has a low-end portion that is ad supported and then a premium. Do you have a preference for what a model in Wi-Fi environment should be? Do you have a preference for it being ad-supported, or you are encouraged by [bringing an] AOL or an EarthLink, do the access part and you just kind of take advantage of the traffic and try to monetize the traffic?  

LARRY PAGE: I think we created quite a stir when we released the proposal to do ad-supported Wi-Fi in San Francisco with EarthLink. And I'm excited about the possibilities there. We said before that it's a trial and an experiment for us. We are doing it at a relatively small scale. I think we and everybody else in the world would be very excited to see good Internet access that was free and ad-supported and profitable. That would be tremendous for our business, and in fact for the Internet as a whole.  

OPERATOR: Jordan Rohan, RBC Capital Markets.  

JORDAN ROHAN, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: I have gathered some data points recently which I hoped you would be able to comment on. Related to the Japanese market, where I have heard that the market share for Google is actually on the rise, that you guys could end up with 25% search query volume share by the end of the year, up from 15 at the end of '05. While I don't expect you to have any idea, really, whether the entire market is growing, can you talk about your relative presence in Japan, whether you think you may be gaining share? And also, is Japan today a material percentage of revenue, however you want to define that, for Google?  

ERIC SCHMIDT: In Japan -- the Japanese market (indiscernible) competitor is Yahoo Japan, and of course Google. And some evidence indicates that we are gaining share. Japan is absolutely a material contributor in revenue to Google. I would encourage you not to look at any specific country (indiscernible) to try to look at sort of whole regions.  

OPERATOR: Mark Rowen, Prudential.  

MARK ROWEN, ANALYST, PRUDENTIAL: Can you give us a sense -- I know you don't give out click-through rates and pricing, but could you just give us a sense on trends for that? You talked about presenting better ads, and I assume if you're actually delivering more targeted ads and putting bands including the right hand in front of the right person at the right time that you are going to get higher click-through rates. Are you in fact seeing that, or are click-through rates starting to fall over time?  

And then, second, there's been a lot of talk recently about social network search. I was wondering if you could talk about how you view that. Are you working on anything in that area? Do you think that, for certain types of search, that that's a better form of search than algorithmic?  

LARRY PAGE: Maybe I will address the first part of your question and leave the second for someone else. The click-through rates and CPCs and things like that -- I mean, I was just in a meeting yesterday where we were reviewing some changes we were thinking about. And we had a good hour-and-a-half discussion about all those factors with regards to the experiments we were running. And each one of those things was very nuanced and actually, depending on the experiments we were running, apt to move in an arbitrary way, up or down. It's going change in some way, based on what we were trying to accomplish with regards to the quality or revenue or the way the particular algorithms work or not, or what the advertiser behavior is likely will be.  

So really -- I've said this in the past, that I would really caution the analyst community here to not be too fixated on any of those particular metrics, because I know that we make changes all the time that cause them to go up or down. It's very easy to make more money by reducing CPCs, by running more ads and so on. And so we look very carefully at the revenue we are generating per query, and that's a combination of click-through and cost-per-click. But those things are all heavily (indiscernible) related, and so we haven't really seen any stats from those (indiscernible). It's very, very complicated.  

MARK ROWEN: So you would not agree that over the long-term, if you are delivering more targeted ads to -- in front of people in the right time, that click-through rates should go up?  

LARRY PAGE: It depends on the UI that we run on, it depends on how good the search results are, it depends on what countries you are talking about. There's a lot of parameters there.  

MARK ROWEN: And on the social networking?  

SERGEY BRIN: I think social networking is a really exciting new area. And don't forget that we have a very successful social networking site of Orkut that's obviously much better known in Brazil than in the US. But it's been very successful. I think it's interesting, from a broader perspective than just Search, but in terms of communication, in terms of meeting people, in terms of lots of other aspects than just Search. From a Search point of view, we like to be really comprehensive. So I think that our main Search can include the information that is also found on the social networks. And that is really the way that we [see it].  

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: I just wanted to add a little bit on the click-through rate question. Larry's point about the dynamics of the whole equation being complicated are well-taken. And if you think about it in the [limit], if you assume that the percentage of queries that people run that are commercial versus noncommercial isn't going to change, but our ad systems are going to get much, much better at targeting them, then the dynamic that you would see ultimately would be coverage could be a lot lower because, if we were smart enough, we would not serve ads on many of the pages where an ad isn't particularly appropriate.  

On the other hand, on the subset of pages that are really commercial, we would probably be serving very, very good ads, and you would see very, very high click-through rates. So if you are just looking at that one RPM equation and trying to look at each independent variable and ask whether or not it's going to go up and down, you are going to be somewhat misled, because the system has additional effects in terms of the relationship between those variables and the relative improvements in the system.  

OPERATOR: Doug Anmuth, Lehman Brothers.  

DOUG ANMUTH, ANALYST, LEHMAN BROTHERS: Eric, you mentioned earlier in the call [about the switch] to Best Practice Funding in the UK and that you had a 100% signup rate there. Can you give us a sense of how much incremental [revenue] that generated during the quarter, and then also a sense of how your relationships are with the agencies in the UK? And I think you mentioned that they are benefiting from the switch as well. I was hoping you could provide some color on that.  

ERIC SCHMIDT: We have modeled some impact on revenue positive, but that's not why we did it. We did it because it's a better way to leverage the skills and the talents of the largest agencies. What happened was, over the last few years, we had invented a model which was much more direct engagement with agencies in the United States. And we brought in some new and very dynamic leadership in Europe that thought this was an opportunity that would work well in Europe, given our strong market share and strong monetization, and indeed, it has done so. We began to preview this in October, and Q1 was the first full quarter. All the indications are that it's extremely successful and that those benefits will accrue for eternity.  

OPERATOR: Heath Terry, Credit Suisse.  

HEATH TERRY, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: I'm just wondering if you could just talk a little bit about what you're seen in Google Local, to what extent, as you have ramped up the advertising within the channel, what kind of a reaction you are getting from consumers, what monetization looks like relative to the core Search product, and what the strategy is going to be for that as you try and add advertisers.  

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: I'll start initially, and we'll see if Larry and Sergey have something to add. As Eric mentioned, Local is definitely becoming increasingly important in terms of advertising revenue. There's a little bit of confusion about the local business ads product that we recently introduced, and where we are in terms of product functionality.  

You could already target, prior to this launch, regionally basically by defining a radius around a single business. And that's the mechanism via which the majority of the local advertising is coming. It's a little bit complicated to optimize a campaign. Many of the advertisers who are advertising locally still have one set of keywords in one campaign which they are doing locally, and then another campaign which they are doing nationally to try to pull in additional customers.  

Then, what we most recently introduced was what we call local business ads. And basically what that is is the capability within our Local product to enable these direct on-the-map ads with the custom map pin and the company image on the map in a balloon. So those are the kind of things that you would see if, for example, you run a search on Barnes & Noble, New York. You'll see the actual pins locating the stores; you can hover over them and then get more information.  

I think in the very long run, the thing that's going to fundamentally change here is when, in addition, you're actually linking inventory availability into local systems, you are really going to see a significant increase there. But we are already seeing that it has become a material component of our business. So with that, I'll see if Sergey or Larry has anything to add.  

ERIC SCHMIDT: Let's move, then, to the next question.  

OPERATOR: Jim Friedland.  

JIM FRIEDLAND, ANALYST: A question regarding your new partners. You mentioned Washington Post and Sony and some others. Are these new partners that did not have pre-existing partners, or are you gaining incremental share from your competitors? And the second part of that question is, have you lost any meaningful search partners, large search partners, in the past six months?  

SERGEY BRIN: This is mostly adding new partners. The Washington Post that you mentioned -- it was actually an interesting case where they used to be a partner a while ago, and for a while they weren't, and now we have regained them. So I don't know how you count that one. But for the most part, we are adding partners. And I can't think of any significant losses; that's pretty rare.  

OPERATOR: Marianne Wolk, Susquehanna.  

MARIANNE WOLK, ANALYST, SUSQUEHANNA: I had two questions. One question would be, you have all of these new opportunities we are looking at, such as Local and the content side advertising and even the enterprise business, which looked like it had a very good quarter. Could you rank these in terms of largest to smallest?  

And then, my second question was, as Google Base becomes more and more popular, is there any chance you would consider moving to more of a revenue-sharing model versus a click-through model? Can you talk to your philosophy on that?  

ERIC SCHMIDT: We run the Company with the 70-20-10 model, and we don't typically score the opportunity for each of the innovative groups. We'd rather see how fast they can grow. So each of the ones that you named, Local and Content and so forth, are all doing well because they are prioritized right and have the right amount of resources, consistent with our operating philosophy. It's hard for us to make a prediction as to which one will grow faster than the other. They are all big markets, and there's always something that slows them down. You know, we need to get a deal done, or we need to get some content, or we need to get more tools to the advertisers. And that's what we work on. So there's no simple way of prioritizing one against the other; they are all consistent with our strategy.  

With respect to the question on Google Base and rev share, Jonathan, you have thought about that a little bit.  

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: Sure. Basically, the intent of Base is to improve the quality and breadth of Google Search and our results by collecting a lot more information, and also a much wider diversity of content. It obviously gives content owners and producers a better way to submit the information if it's not a web page or it's not online. The way we have been describing it so far is you get free distribution, it's flexible, you can upload anything, you can do it through any file format, you can create custom item types and attributes, you can define the metadata as it relates to your content. I don't think that we have really planned on monetizing this as something like a traditional classified product. The goal is really more to improve search.  

OPERATOR: Bill Morrison, JMP Securities.  

BILL MORRISON, ANALYST, JMP SECURITIES: I was wondering -- it looked like your employee growth in the quarter was healthy, north of 1,000 employee additions. And revenue per employee was down, it looks by our analysis, for the second quarter. I was wondering if you could comment on whether we should expect that trend -- well, first of all, I guess, do you plan to continue to accelerate hiring into the second and third quarters, beyond, I think, the 1,000 you hired this quarter? Secondly, should we expect revenue per employee to continue to trend down?  

GEORGE REYES: If you have sort of been watching us over the last few quarters, we have in fact been growing, hiring pretty aggressively, which, as I've said the bunch of times, is very consistent with the agenda that we have before us, which is not only a lot of broad expansion domestically but also a lot of expansion internationally. So we're going to continue sort of on that aggressive path, and we're going to do that sort of in a way where we sort of balance the revenue side of the equation with the cost side. But make no mistake about it, we really are in investment mode at this point.  

OPERATOR: Martin Pyykkonen, Hoefer & Arnett.  

MARTIN PYYKKONEN, ANALYST, HOEFER & ARNETT: Eric, first on pricing, we have talked about this a lot. You have been pretty clear and adamant that we in the investment community really don't have the granular detail to understand the underlying trends here and the headroom that you might have. But a question along those lines -- I'm just curious, do you -- and at the risk of oversimplifying this, which admittedly is the case. But if you would look at the kind of smart advertiser that has been in this for a while versus the newer advertiser coming in, and particularly in some of the newer markets, I'm curious if you are getting more of the pricing leverage from the newer, less experienced advertisers, or if it's fairly well-balanced between the savvy and the less experienced advertiser.  

And then, kind of a housekeeping question for George on the tax rate. You had mentioned 30% for the full year '06 was a good range for modeling. Obviously, you had some benefit with the lower tax rate this quarter. I'm just curious what kind of quarterly variations you might foresee, or how we might model that going forward for the remaining three quarters of the year.  

LARRY PAGE: I'll take the first half of the question. I think there's actually a bunch of factors going on there. One thing to note -- when we enter new markets, there's generally not a lot of competition for advertising. So the initial prices are quite low, given that we sell through an auction. This is actually a great way for us to get people excited about our model, and to get a lot of people into the system, and for those early trendsetters to get rewarded for trying out something new and taking some risk. In those new markets, I think probably the prices are pretty low initially, and then increase over time as people really understand that they are getting sales through this thing.  

And that's the other part of this, is that we are seeing much wider adoption of tools to track conversions, with people actually buying (technical difficulty). And we love that. We think that's a great thing for our business. It helps our advertisers understand precisely which keywords to advertise on, how much they make from each one and what customers are really doing. And obviously, if somebody buys something, they know how much money they made and it becomes a very well-calculated kind of expense, where they know that they are making money on it.  

So I think, as our markets get more experienced, there is a lot more use of tools for tracking this information. And we have also released some of those tools to really help our advertisers do that.  

GEORGE REYES: Back to your question on taxes and the tax rate, so last year we projected a full rate of 30% for the year. We're pretty much on that same track now; that's our view. I think what we all collectively need to understand is that taxation is subject to discrete items that can come up from quarter to quarter. So our best assessment of the rate at this point in time is 30% for the year, and it came a little bit lower than that this quarter.  

MARTIN PYYKKONEN: Are there any major discretionary items that we could track in terms of assessing that as you kind of go forward through the year?  

GEORGE REYES: I doubt it, because it is such a technical area, where we are continually assessing it each and every quarter and setting the rate appropriately on that basis.  

ERIC SCHMIDT: Let's get a couple more quick questions, and then we'll have to finish up, operator.  

OPERATOR: Justin Post, Merrill Lynch.  

JUSTIN POST, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: You mentioned seasonality over the summer. Outside of growing internationally, is there any reason to believe that could be different year over year?  

And then, a strategic question. You have a great asset with your search traffic, do you see integrating that into your verticals like Finance and Base? What is the opportunity there?  

ERIC SCHMIDT: Let me answer that. On the seasonality, the seasonality we're seeing is the same we see every year, and I'm sure that that seasonality would be true as long as the Internet is primarily predominant in the Northern Hemisphere. The summer is, of course, in the summer here. So I don't see a change in the next few years; we're going to have this structure for the foreseeable future.  

In terms of the great traffic that we have for Search, we don't think of it that way. We think more about taking wonderful properties like Base and [introducing] their content and structure into overall Search, so it's the inverse of what most people think. We want to have fewer verticals and better integration with better signals and better quality.  

OPERATOR: Derek Brown, Pacific Growth Equities.  

DEREK BROWN, ANALYST, PACIFIC GROWTH EQUITIES: A quick question -- I'm actually surprised it hasn't been asked yet. But it relates to TAC. It is something that has obviously been trending down over time, and I'm wondering if there's a rationale behind that, number one; and, number two, if that is something that you would anticipate seeing going forward?  

GEORGE REYES: Historically here, going back a year, year and a half, we haven't seen all that much pressure on TAC. Where you do see discrete and explicit tension points with TAC is when you get large, hotly-contested deals. And of course, in those instances, you would end up paying more and bidding up TAC. But generally speaking, we have a very thriving and vibrant publisher network that -- they have good economics, we have good economics, and the model works.  

ERIC SCHMIDT: I went to thank everybody for spending an hour with us. Again, let us know how this works, whether we're communicating effectively. And we're very much -- thank you for coming, of course, to the financial analyst meeting; many of you came in February. And we look forward to talking to you before this, and we'll also be looking forward to talking to you at our next conference call, which will be in July. So thank you very much.  

OPERATOR: Once again, ladies and gentlemen, that concludes today's call. Thanks for your participation. You may disconnect at this time.  

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]  

   CO
goog : Google Inc.
   IN
i8395464 : Internet Search Engines | iint : Internet/Online Services
   NS
ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | c151 : Earnings | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe
   PUB
Voxant, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020060504e24k00263
  


 HD
 Q4  2005 Google Earnings Conference Call - Final  
   WC
10,517 words
   PD
31 January 2006
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.    

   LP
OPERATOR: Good day, everyone, and welcome to the Google Inc. fourth-quarter 2005 earnings conference call. This call is being recorded. With us today from the Company is the Chief Executive Officer, Dr. Eric Schmidt; the Co-Founder and President of Technology, Mr. Sergey Brin; and the Co-Founder and President, Products, Mr. Larry Page; and the Chief Financial Officer, Mr. George Reyes.  

At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Ms. Kim Jabal, Director of Investor Relations. Ms. Jabal, please go ahead.  

   TD
KIM JABAL, DIRECTOR OF IR, GOOGLE: Good afternoon. Welcome to our fourth-quarter 2005 earnings call. On the call today are Eric Schmidt, Chief Executive Officer; George Reyes, Chief Financial Officer; Larry Page, Founder and President, Products; Sergey Brin, Founder and President, Technology; Omid Kordestani, Senior Vice President, Global Sales and Business Development; and Jonathan Rosenberg, Vice President, Product Management.  

This call is being webcast from our Investor Relations website. Additionally, our press release, issued a few moments ago, is now posted on our website. A replay of this call will be available within a few hours.  

Some of the comments we will make today are forward-looking, including statements regarding our operational performance and margins; the prospects for growth in online advertising in our business; our continuing ability to grow and innovate; our expected traffic growth; the growth of patterns of our AdSense network and our Goble website; the potential for the services we develop to benefit our users and partners; the planned expansion of our international operations; our expected investments in our business; the nature of expected capital expenditures for 2006; our expense growth; our expected stock-based compensation expense; the expected dilution related to equity grants to employees; our future provision for income taxes and our effective tax rate; our planned investment in socially or economically progressive measures; our expectations with respect to our mobile business; our strategic relationships, including our planned acquisition of dMarc and our relationship with AOL; and the rate of introduction of new products and services.  

These statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated by these forward-looking statements. These risk and uncertainties include a variety of factors, some of which are beyond our control.  

These forward-looking statements speak as of today, and you should not rely on them as representing our views in the future. We undertake no obligation to update these forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances that occur after this call.  

Please refer to our SEC filings, including our Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004, and our report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2005, as well as our earnings release posted a few minutes ago on our website for a more detailed description of the risk factors that may affect our results. Copies of these documents may be obtained from the SEC or by visiting the Investor Relations section of our website.  

Also, please note that certain financial measures we use on this call such as EPS, net income, operating margin, operating income, adjusted EBITDA and free cash flow will be expressed on a non-GAAP basis and have been adjusted to exclude charges related to stock-based compensation, SBC, and in-process R&D, or IPR&D, as well as contribution to the Google Foundation in the fourth quarter.  

We report our GAAP results as well as provide non-GAAP operating income, net income, operating margin, EPS, adjusted EBITDA and free cash flow on a supplemental basis in our earnings release. Reconciliations of all non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP financial measures are also included in the earnings release, which may be obtained by visiting the Investor Relations section of our website.  

And with that, I would like to turn the call over to Eric.  

ERIC SCHMIDT, CEO, GOOGLE: Well, thanks very much, Kim. I would like to thank everybody for joining us on the call today. I will begin with some introductory comments and then turn it over to George for some more detail on our financial results. After George goes through the numbers, Larry and Sergey will comment on the quarter and some of the initiatives that we have underway. And after that, we will have Omid and Jonathan join us as they did last quarter to take your questions.  

I'd like to remind everybody that our policy is to not to give any forward guidance and we are going to continue that policy for the indefinite future.  

We are very pleased with these results, and I hope you've had a chance to look at the press release already. We had very strong growth in our course search and core ad business -- 22% quarter-over-quarter growth and 86% top-line revenue growth since Q4 '04. We saw and in fact delivered expected seasonal strength in both traffic and monetization -- all very good indicators for the future.  

Our focus at Google is on the end-user experience. And frankly, more and more time that people spend online will be spent using Google online in one way or another. The products and improvements that we make are geared toward enhancing user quality and really changing the way people use this sort of amazing thing that is the Internet.  

This approach, the end-user experience, is the core to our culture and to our recruiting efforts and the way we manage the Company. We see very tremendous opportunity for growth at this point. We have new innovative products that deliver the value through our technology into different channels.  

It looks, based on our analysis, that the international markets are highly underpenetrated with tremendous forward growth as we build out our operations there. And we will talk about that some more. The expansion of our advertiser network continues at pace -- continues to be very, very strong. But perhaps most important, we believe the rate of innovation will increase in 2006 as we continue to bring the most talented minds into Google and our unique innovation model delivers amazing new products.  

So we take a long-term view of business. And we are going to invest for the long term and make some really big bets. So with that, let me turn it over to George to take you through the exact numbers. George?  

GEORGE REYES, CFO, GOOGLE: Thank you, Eric. First, I will go through fourth-quarter results in detail and then summarize our annual results. But before we get started, as a reminder, we report both GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures. Non-GAAP earnings exclude charges related to stock-based compensation, in-process research and development, and a contribution to the Google Foundation of $90 million.  

In our earnings release, we have included reconciliations to GAAP for all of the non-GAAP measures, include EPS, net income, operating income, operating margins, adjusted EBITDA and free cash flow. So let's jump in and get started.  

As Eric mentioned, we achieved strong revenue growth during the fourth quarter. Revenue grew to 1.919 billion, an increase of 22% over the third quarter and an increase of 86% year over year.  

GAAP operating income in the fourth quarter was 570 million. This compares to GAAP operating income of 529 million in the third quarter, an increase of 8%. Non-GAAP operating income for the fourth quarter was 718 million. This compares to 596 million in the third quarter, an increase of 20% sequentially.  

GAAP net income for the fourth quarter was 372 million, compared to 381 million in the third quarter. Non-GAAP net income for the fourth quarter was 469 million, compared to 437 million in the third quarter. GAAP earnings per share for the fourth quarter were $1.22 on 305 million diluted shares outstanding, compared to $1.32 for the third quarter on 290 million diluted shares outstanding.  

Non-GAAP earnings per share for the fourth quarter were $1.54 on 305 million diluted shares outstanding, compared to $1.51 for the third quarter of 2005 on 290 million diluted shares outstanding.  

Non-GAAP operating income, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP EPS are all pro forma measures computed net of certain material items, namely stock-based compensation, in-process research and development charges, and the contribution to the Google Foundation of 90 million made in the fourth quarter of 2005.  

In Q4, the charge related to stock-based compensation was 58 million, compared to 46 million in Q3. In-process research and development charges were immaterial in the quarter, compared to 21 million in the third quarter.  

GAAP tax benefits related to stock-based compensation charges and the contribution to the Google Foundation have been excluded from non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP EPS. The tax benefit related to stock-based comp was 14 million in the fourth quarter and 11 million in the third quarter, and the tax benefit related to the contribution to the Google Foundation in the fourth quarter was 37 million.  

Net cash provided by operating activities was 658 million for Q4, compared to 647 million in Q3.  

Now I'll go into some more details on revenue and expenses. As I mentioned a moment ago, total revenue grew 22% sequentially and 86% year over year to $1.919 billion, demonstrating the continued success of our advertising solutions.  

Revenue growth was driven by expected seasonal gains in both traffic and monetization. Both Google.com and the Google Network experienced strong growth during the quarter. During Q4, the mix in revenue continued to shift towards Google.com sites, as revenues from our Google sites increased 24% sequentially to a record $1.098 billion.  

While revenue from the Google Network, the third-party sites that display ads provided by Google, increased 18% over Q3 to 799 million, revenue from our own sites represented 57% of total revenue in the fourth quarter, as compared with 56% in Q3. And revenue from the Google Network represented 42% of total revenue, down from 43% in Q3.  

We are very pleased with the growth in both AdSense Research and AdSense for Content as our search partners experienced strong fourth-quarter performance and we continue to add publishers to our network, extending the reach of our advertising platform.  

This quarter, revenue from international operations was 735 million, an increase of 18% over the prior quarter. International operations contributed 38% of total revenue, compared to 39% in Q3 and 35% in Q4 of '04. The UK contributed 14% of total revenues as compared to 15% of total revenues in the third quarter.  

The decrease in international revenue and UK revenue as a percentage of total revenue is attributable to foreign exchange and to seasonal trends, both of which I will explain further.  

We experienced an unfavorable impact to revenues due to the strength of the dollar relative to foreign currencies, primarily the euro, the pound and the yen. Had foreign exchange rates remained constant from Q3 through Q4, our revenues would have been 12 million or roughly 0.6% higher. Had foreign exchange rates remained constant from 2004 through 2005, our revenues would have been 40 million or 2.1% higher.  

In addition, we saw stronger seasonal trends in the U.S. than in the international business in Q4, with weaker December spending in certain verticals in the UK. Last year, the effect of this trend was offset by favorable impact from foreign exchange and from the addition of AOL Europe in Q4 of 2004.  

We continue to see good progress in our international operations. Overall, our international business had a strong quarter, with very healthy growth in Europe, Asia, Central and South America. We continue to see international expansion as a key area of opportunity and investment. We remain underpenetrated in several markets and are focusing our efforts on building out our infrastructure and bringing more localized products to these markets. So in summary, we are very pleased with the strong revenue growth in the quarter and for the year.  

Turning now to costs and expenses, as all of you know by now, at Google, cost of revenue is comprised mainly of traffic acquisition costs, or TAC, expenses associated with the operation of our data centers, credit card processing charges, and amortized expenses associated with purchased and licensed technologies.  

In the fourth quarter, cost of revenue increased to 775 million, up from 654 million in the third quarter, but decreased as a percentage of revenue to 40.4% from 41.4% in the previous quarter, primarily due to a reduction in TAC as a percentage of revenue, which I will discuss next.  

TAC, or the revenue share we pay to our partners, increased to 629 million in Q4 from 530 million in Q3. TAC as a percentage of advertising revenue decrease from 34% in Q3 of 2005 to 33% in Q4. This decrease is related primarily to revenue mix, as revenue from Google.com sites increased relative to revenue from the Google Network.  

In Q4 of 2005, R&D spending increased to 157 million from 152 million in Q3. R&D spending as a percentage of revenue declined to 8% from 10% in the prior quarter. The decrease in R&D as a percentage of revenues is due primarily to a reduction in IPR&D charges in connection with acquisitions, as well as with the seasonality of engineering hiring in the month of December. You should fully expect to see growth in this expense line as the pace of innovation at Google accelerates.  

Turning to the sales and marketing front, sales and marketing in Q4 was at 155 million, an increase of 47% from 105 million in Q3. As a percentage of revenue, sales and marketing increased from 7% in Q3 to 8% in Q4. This growth is attributed primarily to the development of global marketing programs such as our toolbar distribution deals, expansion of our global sales force and investments in Asia and Latin America.  

G&A increased to 114 million in Q4 from 92 million in Q3, an increase of 23%. On a percentage of revenue basis, G&A stayed flat with the prior quarter at 5.9%.  

Turning to stock-based compensation, stock-based comp charges grew in Q4 to 58 million from 46 million in the previous quarter, primarily related to Google stock units issued in Q4 and those that were issued previously. Our non-GAAP results are net of these charges after their related tax effect.  

Stock-based compensation in 2006 will be significantly greater than it was in 2005 as a result of our adoption of FAS 123R, effective January 1 of 2006, which requires the expensing of all stock-based compensation. We currently anticipate a dilution related to all equity grants will be in the 1 to 1.5% range in 2006.  

As we discussed on our last call, during the fourth quarter, we contributed 90 million to the Google Foundation. This was a nonrecourse, nonrefundable donation and was recorded as an expense in Q4. We do not expect to make further donations to the Foundation for the foreseeable future.  

We do, however, expect to make equity and other investments in for-profit enterprises that aim to alleviate poverty, improve the environment, or achieve other socially or economically progressive objectives. We expect these investments to be made primarily in cash and to be valued at approximately $175 million over the next three years.  

Turning to operating margins, our non-GAAP property margin in the fourth quarter was 37% of revenues, or down slightly from the prior quarter, as revenue growth and a more favorable revenue mix were more than offset by significant investments in all areas of our business. Our GAAP operating margin declined primarily as a result of a $90 million donation to the Google Foundation in Q4.  

Now I will turn to taxes. Our effective tax rate for Q4 increased to 41.8% this quarter and to 31.6% for the year, above expectations of approximately 30% for the year. The amount of tax expense we recognize in any particular quarter is driven by our estimates for the year. And as we have said in the past, our estimates for the year are sensitive to the mix of earnings in the U.S. and overseas.  

These estimates are complex, and 2005 was the first year we realized any reduction to our effective tax rate as a result of profits earned overseas under our international structure. At the end of the year, we must true up the tax provision for the year, which could, and in the case of Q4, did have a disproportionate impact on the fourth quarter.  

In calculating our true-up for the year, a portion of expenses allocated to international operations was greater than we expected. Primarily as a result of this, a greater percentage of our profits were taxed at a higher domestic tax rate, which resulted in a greater effective tax rate compared to our expectations. Keeping in mind the complexity of projecting tax rates, we expect our effective tax rate for 2006 to be approximately 30%.  

Looking at liquidity, net cash provided by operating activities for Q4 totaled 658 million as compared to 647 million for Q3. Free cash flow, another non-GAAP measure of liquidity, is defined as cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures. This quarter, we generated 413 million in free cash flow as compared to 354 million in Q3 and 309 million in Q4 of '04. Our capital expenditures in the quarter were 245 million, primarily reflecting purchases of servers and networking equipment, as well as acquisitions of additional office space.  

Adjusted EBITDA, defined as net income before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization, IPR&D and stock-based compensation, increased 21% to 814 million or 43% of revenue in Q4, up from 672 million or 43% of revenue in Q3.  

Our cash, cash equivalent and marketable securities balances were just over $8 billion at 12/31 of this past year, up from 7.6 billion at the end of last quarter. Day sales outstanding, or DSOs, increased to 33 days from 31 days last quarter. This reflects the growth of our international business, where credit terms tend to be longer, as well as extended credit to certain customers in the U.S.  

Now I will summarize our annual results. Full-year 2005 revenues increased 93% to 6.1 billion. International revenue accounted for 39% of total revenue, up from 34% in 2004. GAAP operating income was $2 billion, compared to 2004 GAAP operating income of 640 million, which was impacted by a charge related to a legal settlement in 2004.  

On a GAAP basis, net income nearly quadrupled, reaching 1.5 billion, compared to 399 million in 2004. Total CapEx spending for the year was 838 million.  

Looking forward, we will continue to invest heavily in our global infrastructure, including servers, networking equipment and data centers, with a smaller proportion on real estate investments. On a worldwide basis, we grew to 5680 full-time employees as of December 31 of 2005, as compared with 4989 employees as of September 30 of 2005, and 3021 employees as of December 31 of 2004.  

So to summarize, we are very pleased with or Q4 results. As we have previously emphasized, we are investing aggressively in our business and scaling rapidly to pursue enormous opportunities for long-term growth. We will fuel innovation through deliberate and appropriate investments in R&D and in our core infrastructure, as well as through acquisitions. We believe these investments are critical to achieving our mission and to maintaining our competitive advantage.  

And with that, I would like to turn the call over to Larry Page for more details.  

LARRY PAGE, FOUNDER AND PRESIDENT, PRODUCTS, GOOGLE: Thank you, George. We spend a lot of time at Google focusing on our users. We are always innovating to find new ways to serve their interests better. I want to talk about three areas where we have been targeting our innovation.  

We see the users want more personalized products that they can tailor to their needs. We see that they are always looking to find more information easily. And we recognize that users are seeking new ways to get information using devices other than their PCs.  

During this past quarter, we introduced several new products and services that we think will help them meet these needs. On personalization, we're learning that as people use Google more, they want more targeted results. So we're bringing information to our users in more personalized ways.  

For example, our personalized search feature takes previous search history into account when presenting results and is now available in 12 languages. Users can set up Google News to get stories based on their preferences through the Google Accounts login. We also launched 12 new local editions of Google News, expanding the reach of news information tailored to users.  

More recently, we announced Google Personalized Home from mobile devices, a new service that enables users' access to their personalized Google home page on their mobile phones and PDAs. And just this week, we announced a beta version of Google Toolbar that offers the ability to store bookmarks and access them from anywhere, and other new features.  

To provide people with more information, we worked with more partners to add new content to our services. Google Book Search and the related Library Project provide new ways for users to locate material that previously could not be searched online.  

Google Base collects even more information about a wider diversity of new types of searchable content. The way we organize and present the content allows us to give users more targeted search results. We brought in the scope of Google Video so the users can search across a wide range of videos from many new content producers. We already announced deals with CBS, the NBA, Charlie Rose and others and expect to announce more in the coming quarter.  

Finally, we are also giving our users more ways to access information. Last quarter, we released versions of both Gmail and Google Local for mobile devices. Anyone with a Gmail account can now easily get messages from their mobile phones. With Google Local now integrated with Maps, users can access business listings, maps, driving directions and more on their mobile devices.  

RIM recently announced the release of Google Talk on their BlackBerry handheld devices. We introduced Google Personalized Home for mobile, covering both themes that I discussed previously.  

In addition, we signed agreements with Motorola and T-Mobile to provide search services to millions of mobile phone users. We believe that mobile applications are essential in bringing the Internet experience to users in countries where mobile usage outpaces broadband.  

Overall, we are continuing to make progress towards our mission to organize the world's information and make it universally accessible and useful. Looking to 2006, we expect to launch more products that bring more information and more content to our users.  

Now, I will turn the call over to Sergey.  

SERGEY BRIN, FOUNDER AND PRESIDENT, TECHNOLOGY, GOOGLE: Thank you, Larry. First, I'd like to share some thoughts on our advertising business. At Google, we have built a user-centric business, meaning that ad-serving is based not only on when and where the advertiser wants an ad to be shown, but more importantly, when and where the user wants to receive the information.  

We have encouraged our advertisers to use an always-on approach to their campaigns rather than a more traditional flight-based approach. And we are now really reaping the benefits of this approach.  

Changes we have made within our sales organization are enabling us to address advertisers' needs in a more targeted way. The fourth quarter was the first full quarter with a vertically organized sales force in addition to a growing inside sales channel. And we have been reaching out to both Fortune 500 customers and medium-sized businesses more effectively.  

Larger companies are now including interactive advertising as significant and increasing components of their overall marketing budgets. They're making more investments in technology and in partner relationships to help them to scale and to better measure ROI.  

Ford Motor Company has successfully partnered with Google to execute integrated lead generation and branding campaigns for years. During the quarter, Ford was the first automotive advertiser to run a major placement within our site-targeting program. This campaign generated awareness around the launch of the new Ford Explorer, as well as promoted for its sponsorship of the Road to Kona Ironman Competition.  

Alongside our larger advertisers, we continue to see many smaller, less well-known advertisers building their businesses through AdWords as we helped them drive qualified leads to their site and grow into larger companies. Our platform creates a level playing field and allows small and medium businesses to take advantage of the same features, such as site-specific targeting, regional targeting and conversion tracking to ensure their message reaches their intended audience.  

We are also providing more flexibility for all of our advertisers. During the quarter, we introduced AdSense on-site advertiser signup, where publishers can sign up new advertisers directly from their websites, and AdWords separate content bidding, which enables advertisers to place separate bids for ads that run on content sites, giving advertisers more choice and more control over their ad placement.  

As always, we are focused on improving the quality of the ads that we serve, and we will continue to make product improvements that better match ads to queries and to content.  

In Q4, we renewed several important AdSense partnerships, including InfoSpace, Terra Networks in Spain and Brazil, T-Online, NEC Big Globe, Business.com, WebMD and the CNET. We also signed new deals with PBS, Encyclopedia Britannica and Merriam-Webster. And per our announcement in December, we have also extended our relationship with AOL.  

We continue to develop innovative ways to extend our competencies to other media channels. In addition to our continued testing of ad placements and print publications, this month we entered into an agreement to acquire dMarc, a digital solutions provider connecting advertisers directly to radio stations through an automated media platform.  

We plan to integrate our AdWords platform with the dMarc solution in order to provide another distribution channel for our advertisers and ultimately to increase overall spend with Google.  

So switching gears before wrapping up, I'd like to talk about some of the great progress we have made toward building out the business internationally. In November, we opened offices in Brazil and Mexico, and increased the size of sales and operations teams in regions where we still have large opportunities to increase our penetration, such as in China, Japan and India.  

We continue to roll out localized versions of our products in new languages, which is essential if we are to meet the needs of different users in different markets. This quarter, we rolled out 16 languages for Google Analytics, 12 languages for Google Personalized Home Page and 15 languages for Google Desktop, among many others.  

As we look forward, we will intensify our efforts to build out our infrastructure overseas and to develop products that are tailored to individual markets. We will continue to develop tools for our advertisers that help them to better understand and improve their ROI. And ultimately, our goal is innovation. We hope to create new and better ways for advertisers to connect with their customers, wherever they may be.  

Eric, over to you.  

ERIC SCHMIDT: Thanks very much, Sergey. So we had a strong Q4, full of partner enhancements, many partnerships, lots of ongoing improvements to our platform, and all very consistent with the relentless focus that we have on user experience and the integrity of our search results.  

We exceeded our revenue and profitability expectations for the quarter, and we're scaling this business rapidly and we're investing for the long term. This is a distribution-scale business of, in my opinion, enormous proportions. We are focusing on end users -- billions of them. When we build a product, we need to think in terms of the billions of users that are in so many different countries.  

We need to create access points for all devices so that they can get this information. And we're focused on executing our business at scale with the lowest cost of capital and the highest performance delivered in the industry.  

From my perspective, this remains a unique and historic opportunity, putting more data on the server and information on every kind of device -- mobile phones, moving information from personal computer to personal computer, personal computer to mobile, without having to figure out things like what file server -- all of those kinds of things are something that people have been clamoring for for a long time.  

We are not yet finished getting all the information into Google into the hands of end users around the world. So looking at 2006, lots of investment in better search tools, more personalization, much more content, a lot more focus on advertisers. We are already seeing strong monetization growth from our existing advertisers and many more advertisers are joining.  

We get feedback from our advertiser cycle. Feedback in the cycle causes us to provide better monetization for query, more services and more ways of making money as this market grows and as our reach grows.  

We have more advertising clients with brands. And those advertising clients with brands are learning how to use our targeted technology to solve their business problems. We are also applying this to different medium, leveraging technology in other innovative ways -- new user access points, mobile phones, consumer electronics, television, radio and the dMarc acquisition, marketing channels, print, click-to-call, all either launched or under development here at Google.  

From a corporate perspective, we are growing our talented employee base -- great technical people, great business leaders all around the world. We have added Shirley Tilghman and Ann Mather, two outstanding individuals, to our Board. But Google is still completely committed to the fundamental mission of getting all the world's information easily accessible and useful. We are going to do very, very well here.  

So with that, we look very much forward to spending some more time with you at this year's analyst day on March 2, and Kim, is it time to go to questions?  

OPERATOR: (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS). Youssef Squali, Jefferies.  

YOUSSEF SQUALI, ANALYST, JEFFERIES & CO.: Two quick questions. First, George, if I were to normalize for the differential on your tax rate, am I correct in basically seeing that there is a $0.24, $0.25 differential, which basically puts you back at $1.78?  

And second, Sergey, what are your plans regarding the offering of rich media display formats to your network of publishers? Can you just talk about timing? I understand you guys are doing a [small] data right now. Should we expect revenue share to be similar to that of the ad network program? Thanks a lot.  

GEORGE REYES: This is George. As you've correctly sort of started to figure out here, really most of the miss was related to the tax impact, and that is sort of the GAAP to consensus. And I think that is the question you were asking.  

YOUSSEF SQUALI: Correct.  

ERIC SCHMIDT: And Sergey?  

SERGEY BRIN: Yes, this is Sergey. We have increasingly offered more and different kinds of ways to put advertisements online. We have been somewhat conservative. As you know, it took us awhile to allow image advertising within AdSense, but we allow it now. And we have now increased the number of different formats and sizes that we offer.  

I expect that we will continue to do so. But we want to be cautious that the formats we allow have restrictions that mean that the websites that run AdSense always have a tasteful presentation. We would not want really outrageously flashy things to just distract everyone from the website and for the website as a result to not want to participate in AdSense.  

That said, we are definitely open to lots of great new media formats, some interactive, and obviously the offline ones of print and radio that I already mentioned.  

OPERATOR: Mark Mahaney, Citigroup.  

MARK MAHANEY, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Two questions. As you look at the other types of media, print and radio, is it push or pull that's taking you there? Do have existing clients who are coming to you saying we would love to see you come up with advertising solutions for those media, or are those just areas you find interesting and in need of innovation?  

And then just real quickly, any more color on the UK vertical weakness you mentioned, George?  

ERIC SCHMIDT: Why don't we add Omid and Jonathan to the conversation, since they are on the line. Omid, do you want to start with advertising?  

OMID KORDESTANI, SVP, GLOBAL SALES AND BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT, GOOGLE: Sure. Thanks for the question, yes. I think it's really a combination. We are really trying to figure out how to reintegrate advertising solutions with more of the successful model we have in measurability. For example, we are very impressed by dMarc and the solutions they have provided already, really bringing a level of automation that is very similar to our model.  

Now, the ROI models are going to be very different, and we're going to look for working with our existing customer bases to extend into these new formats and mediums.  

The other is really, frankly, again, as I mentioned, we have organized our sales organization to be really much more focused industry by industry and figure out, again, how best to serve the needs of the Fortune companies, the major accounts. And what we are finding, again, is that all of them have a lot of interest in figuring out how to bring more measurability and how to extend this and integrate more solutions across different formats.  

The other question about the verticals, I will let Jonathan answer.  

JONATHAN ROSENBERG, VP, PRODUCT MANAGEMENT, GOOGLE: Hi, Mark, this is Jonathan. Just building on Omid's answer real quickly, and I will cover the UK. I think that it really is our ability to offer a unified platform for all media to our advertisers and extend the accountability of online to other media that you're really going to see. So it is both a push and a pull model, but it is really getting to that more unified platform that I think is critical.  

The UK answer is a little bit nuanced. You tend to see -- monetization in the UK is doing fabulously well overall. We tend to see a little bit of the reverse kind of seasonality in the UK relative to the United States over the holidays. There are also some specific issues just related to the way the calendar worked and number of relatively high monetization days that slightly adversely impacted that. But it is mostly the reverse Christmas trend that you see in the UK, which is simply a cultural and vacation-related issue.  

OPERATOR: Douglas Anmuth, Lehman Brothers.  

DOUGLAS ANMUTH, ANALYST, LEHMAN BROTHERS: I was hoping you could drill down just a little bit more on the sales and marketing line, which came in certainly higher than we were expecting, and you talked about obviously growing out the sales force. Can you sort of give us some guidance in terms of how far along you are in this process in building out the sales force, and then also how much of a factor that was versus some of the other things you mentioned around toolbar distribution deals and also expansion into Asia and Latin America? Thank you.  

GEORGE REYES: This is George Reyes. So I think the best way to address this question is over the course of the last year in all of these earnings calls that we have had, I think we have made it very clear that we are focused on growing our business, and international expansion in particular. So I think the way you should look at the increase in the sales and marketing line is just as a logical extension of that.  

We think the opportunity ahead of us particularly in international markets is just exceptional. And what you are seeing is the investments that need to be made to sort of harvest that opportunity.  

OPERATOR: Jordan Rohan, RBC Capital Markets.  

JORDAN ROHAN, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: I'm curious, and maybe this ties into Doug's question a little bit as well -- as you look forward in 2006, do you see the same kind of incremental growth in operating expenditure? I think in the quarter you did 75 million higher operating expenditure than you did in 3Q. Is that the type of pace or growth in total operating expenditure that you can envision?  

ERIC SCHMIDT: As you guys know by now, we don't give explicit guidance. But let me try and sort of replay my tape one more time. So we think the opportunity ahead of us, especially in international markets, is exceptional. So we are going to continue to invest at these rates. And that's sort of the agenda here.  

OPERATOR: Scott Kessler, Standard & Poor's.  

SCOTT KESSLER, ANALYST, STANDARD & POOR'S: The growth in the Google Network websites was a little bit lower on a relative basis than I had expected. And I was wondering if you could provide any details related to that? Thanks a lot.  

OMID KORDESTANI: This is Omid. We actually have had very good success in renewing contracts and signing new ones, as Sergey mentioned. It just has to do with the fact that some of the biggest partnerships are in long-term contracts with us, and that there weren't any really new significant major amounts of traffic, both in terms of content or search that we added to the network.  

On the other hand, we are experiencing nice growth in traffic. Seasonality was nice in the commerce sector. And we also are continuing to focus on partnering.  

SCOTT KESSLER: Are a number of these contracts that you speak of up for consideration in 2006? Is the pipeline looking like you want it to look like? I think people are kind of wondering why the revenues were the way they were for that particular area.  

ERIC SCHMIDT: This is Eric. In general, the contracts are multiyear contracts. So they are pretty locked in from the business model perspective. The benefits that we offer our advertisers for improved RPM, that is literally revenue growth per query for advertisers and so forth, [inure] to both Google.com and to the partner network.  

So what you are really seeing is that the aggregate growth of the partner network is growing somewhat slower than the total growth of Google.com, which is also mirrored in some of the market share analysis that people are showing. And it's hard for us to predict whether that will continue. But it has been a trend for some time.  

We are reasonably indifferent to which category gets the growth, although if Google.com grows, there's more of a profit contribution, because we keep 100% of that rather than doing a rev share with the partners in the TAC calculation.  

OPERATOR: Mark May, Needham & Co.  

MARK MAY, ANALYST, NEEDHAM & CO.: Thanks for taking my question. It has to do with new consumer products. Some of the new products that you launched last year have received mixed reviews, for instance, Google Video. I'm wondering if you could sort of grade yourself in terms of how well you think those initial launches were? If it were less than a 10 or a 9, what might you do different to improve the user experience there?  

And then just secondly, we haven't heard much about Founder Awards in a few quarters. I'm wondering do you have any update -- recent awards? Or is that a reflection of innovation within the Company?  

ERIC SCHMIDT: Maybe we could have a founder's comment on that, and Jonathan could add as well. I was going to comment that we tend to ship products very early and in beta precisely so that we can experiment with them. Larry or Sergey?  

LARRY PAGE: Yes, I was just going to add that we have always done that. And in fact, when we launched AdWords and things like that, it took us awhile to get to the model that we have now. We actually had a -- we did not even have pay-per-click initially.  

This is sort of how Google has always worked, is that we love getting things out really early. We love experimenting with them. We love having a huge pace of innovation. And so I'm actually very, very happy with our progress. We are launching a lot of different things that people are really interested in. The teams that are doing those are learning a tremendous amount.  

Video has actually gone through three iterations already and has been tremendously successful. We've gotten huge numbers of videos on there. We just recently launched paid videos, and we expect to a lot more along those lines. And I could not be happier with our progress there.  

And Sergey will talk a little bit about the Founders Awards.  

SERGEY BRIN: Yes, this is Sergey. If you think over the past year, we have certainly had a number of very exciting, successful products that we are already pleased with and that have already reaped great rewards for our Company.  

It takes us a little while sometimes to really assess that value and be able to appropriately reward those employees. But we do have one cycle of Founders' Awards -- it should happen in the next few weeks. There have just been a number of other important things we've had to attend to that have probably delayed that a bit more than we should have. And we look forward to really giving those out, because I think that I'm not going to preannounce them now on the earnings call, but I think they are well-deserved, and those people will be very happy.  

With regard to some of the less mature products, I think we are going to give them some time to see where they take us and really evaluate their overall benefit to Google as a company and to our end users.  

OPERATOR: Heath Terry, Credit Suisse.  

HEATH TERRY, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE FIRST BOSTON: I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about Gmail, specifically what kind of traction you are seeing there both in users, as well as monetization and what you think, as that product starts to mature, how you think on a relative basis monetization within that offering will look versus the monetization in your core search business?  

SERGEY BRIN: This is Sergey. We are still in the phase of Gmail where we are focusing on innovating, on the features, the experience. We are spending an increasing proportion, but still a relatively small proportion, of our engineering resources focusing on the monetization.  

We are relatively comfortable that over time, once we decide to make that push, much as we did in search only after a couple of years of focusing almost exclusively only on the search experience, we are comfortable that that's a very valuable service and will have some significant financial benefits.  

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: This is Jonathan. Just building on what Sergey said, we measure user satisfaction very, very carefully. So that's one set of feedback which we get. We also did extend the signups to several additional countries. I think there were eight or nine countries that we extended to in December.  

And we also launched some new features towards the end of Q4. We added some simple things that people had been asking for in the satisfaction studies, just the vacation autoresponder and the RSS speeds and contact groups and viewing it as HTML.  

So we've made a lot of enhancements, and I think we are going to continue to see there on the ad side and monetization side that over time, we will be able to use the ad network that we have already developed and apply the ads as they were developed for search in content and in mail and in other media forms. But over time, I think what you are going to see is we are going to have different inputs into the ad systems that are better and more appropriately tailored for a different product set. And Gmail will certainly benefit from that as we crack the monetization code there.  

OPERATOR: Troy Mastin, William Blair & Co.  

TROY MASTIN, ANALYST, WILLIAM BLAIR & CO.: Question along the lines of the international business. You referred to it as underpenetrated. I am curious if you were referring to market share or penetration of search or the Internet or monetization, or perhaps all of the above? And if it is monetization, can you give perspective on how effective you view your monetization in the non-U.S. markets versus the U.S. markets?  

ERIC SCHMIDT: This is Eric. Maybe Omid and I can answer that together. I said it because when I look at where those markets are compared to the U.S., I see them a couple of years behind the level of penetration of monetization in the U.S. In some cases, it is simply because advertising online is new. In some cases, it's because we were later on a relative basis of entering the market. And in some cases, it is because e-commerce is still a new and fast-growing thing.  

If you look at the difference between the United States and Western Europe, for example, it took a couple of years for the model in the U.S. to really take off in Western Europe. And our Western European revenue growth in the last year has been nothing short of amazing. And in fact, it looks like international growth, ignoring quarterly fluctuations, will continue to outpace U.S. growth for the foreseeable future.  

So we have made a decision to invest in many of the international markets to bring them up to the scale of the more mature markets of the United States and Western Europe. Omid?  

OMID KORDESTANI: Thank you, Eric. Yes, as Eric mentioned, this is a big focus for us. And it was highlighted by several operations that got established last quarter from Brazil to Mexico, Poland, Israel and the European regions and Turkey. And I think the good news for this sector is that what we are seeing is that our ROI-based measurable form of advertising is really working everywhere with similar levels of interest. It's just the maturity level.  

So even in a market like Japan, for example, that is pretty well-established, the level of targeting and direct work with the clients is not at the level of sophistication that we see here in the States or in Western Europe. So we are very busy taking the learnings and the best practices from U.S. and extended it where it makes sense and then establishing more operations so that we can be on the ground and localize the products properly, localize our operations and attract talent from both the technical standpoint and business operations.  

OPERATOR: Lauren Fine, Merrill Lynch.  

LAUREN FINE, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: Just a couple of quick ones, please. I'm just wondering if you could update us in any fashion on how the AOL relationship is going in terms of just putting your heads together and figuring out how you are going to leverage their content and your ad sales force?  

And then secondly, if you can give us any quantitative update on how you are doing in penetrating the Fortune 500. It seems like you have had some more visible success, and with the vertical channel selling, it would seem that that would have helped as well. So any quantitative or qualitative update there would be great.  

ERIC SCHMIDT: I think Omid and I will answer this as well. This is Eric again. On the Time Warner/AOL deal, we were very, very excited to announce a five-year-plus extension to that. It is a very deep partnership involving quite a bit of video and other kind of display advertising, as well as much more integration with the sales force.  

That deal is signed. And we are busy planning all sorts of collaborations between the two companies. What I like about it is that it's an extension of what we're doing already. So there was no hiccup, no negative -- no hurt in terms of timing. We were able to take advantage of it.  

So there's a new set of products flowing through. We're spending a lot more time with the sales force training them on the new technologies and we are beginning to plan for some of the new display and video collaborations that were contemplated in our deal. Omid?  

OMID KORDESTANI: Thinks, Eric. We are really focused as an organization to monetize the business at the many levels. We are offering the Fortune 5000 companies new ways to reach their customers. We have site targeting for really good examples of those -- you may have heard about we're advertising the entertainment industry, like Paramount, very successful in using site targeting to drive awareness of their movies before a movie launch, drive sales of DVDs once it is released.  

Chrysler, Honda, Starcom MediaVest have been also some of the other major users of site targeting. So what we are really doing is trying to, again, understand best how the Fortune companies are trying to work with us and share with them industry-specific, vertical-specific knowledge of performance and really use all the tools and all the products we have available today and the new ones that we're bringing forth to improve their experience in bringing measurability and reach of greater audience. And we're having -- we're very pleased with our progress.  

OPERATOR: Anthony Noto, Goldman Sachs.  

ANTHONY NOTO, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: I wanted to focus on three areas that I think you are generating very little revenue from, if not any at all, specifically Google Images, Google Local and then Google China.  

I think the last time we touched base, you were generating zero revenue in Google China. Is that still the case?  

Second part of the question, Google Images I believe you're not generating any revenue from. It is a sizable vertical with 25 million unique visitors, according to Media Metrix. What is the methodology and when do you think you will monetize that? And what are sort of some of the considerations, mitigating factors?  

And then last on Google Local, there seems to be a lot of innovation going on in Google Local, and pay-per-call may be a great way to monetize that, if you could comment. Thanks.  

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: This is Jonathan. We've certainly done some experiments that you may have seen with Images. And it certainly is an area where we have significant traffic. What we typically see there is that people who go to Images are looking for just that -- they are looking for an image. So one of the things that we're still trying to crack the code on there is what is the right context-sensitive ads to offer? Certainly you can sell them images, but Google already supplies a reasonable number of images that are free. So although we have a lot of traffic there, it has not yet proven itself to be one of the more monetizable vehicles, although there are certain experiments that we're going to continue on there.  

As far as the question related to China, I don't know the specific answer on that one. Omid may well know the answer on that.  

OMID KORDESTANI: On China, we actually have both the online availability of -- the advertising available so customers can come [to it through] the online channel. And we are also very actively building our direct capabilities there.  

One of the things that is important, obviously, is having all the right infrastructure and licensing available for us to be able to operate locally. So we've been very focused on just establishing ourselves. We have had great success, actually, in signing up resellers, and the results from working with these reseller partners have been excellent, actually, in terms of number of advertisers that have actually joined our online program. And we're looking forward to establishing direct relationships with both agencies and clients directly as our capabilities are getting built up.  

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: And I'm sorry, I don't think I answered your question on click-to-call. That's obviously an exciting area, and I think as we mentioned on the call last time, we're testing the ability for users to speak directly to advertisers when they find them on a Google search results page.  

It is free. They do it over the phone. They don't have to dial an 800 number -- we keep the number private. And what is obviously exciting there is that you are connecting somebody expeditiously and directly to a place where they are reasonably likely to consummate a transaction, whether it be a restaurant or an organization or a store. So the monetization opportunity is obviously very significant.  

LARRY PAGE: To add to that just on the local front, which you mentioned, we believe that local is a very great opportunity, and I think we are going to -- we have been experimenting; we will continue to experiment. We don't want to rush -- to have the wrong advertising solution. But we believe it is such a fantastic opportunity that we're investing a lot of effort into it.  

ERIC SCHMIDT: Let's take a couple more questions.  

OPERATOR: Robert Peck, Bear, Stearns.  

ROBERT PECK, ANALYST, BEAR, STEARNS: I just have two quick questions. One is, could you comment a little bit more on dMarc? And besides the obvious radio opportunity there, are there other opportunities that provides, such as TV, video, advertising placement, podcasting advertising, etc.? What opportunities does that technology provide?  

And number two, how should investors thinking about Google as a software and a hardware company? When we think about potentially these transportable data centers, when we think about devices in the home, dub them Google Cubes or what have you, -- or even I believe the Linux system of Ubuntu, how should we think about where Google is going next and the opportunities in front of it?  

ERIC SCHMIDT: Sergey, do you want to do this?  

SERGEY BRIN: I wanted to talk about dMarc.  

ERIC SCHMIDT: Sure, go ahead.  

SERGEY BRIN: I don't know about the second question. On dMarc, this is a very exciting opportunity. It took us awhile to figure out that there was this possibility in the radio market based on its structure, based on its technology, based on the existence of a company such as dMarc.  

And we are, as you know, experimenting with print. We don't know exactly how it will work. We are optimistic. I suspect that advertisers want greater access, better accountability, a more unified framework for their ROI and so forth. I suspect there is great demand for all those things. And as a consequence, though, we can generate greater revenue for the publishers.  

But this really requires a lot of testing and development and understanding of each specific market. So I can't forecast success in any of those, but I have great optimism.  

ERIC SCHMIDT: I would add on the dMarc side that this space is a vast space. And so this acquisition lets us go in there with a very, very differentiated product and tied to our advertising system, should provide significant growth and scale globally.  

On your question about sort of hardware and software company aspects, you mentioned Ubuntu, which is a Linux variant. And we use Ubuntu internally, but we have no plans to distribute it outside of the Company.  

There is an awful lot of speculation about Google playing in those market, a Google PC, those kinds of things. To meet, most of those are people projecting the last war, not the next opportunity on us. And from my perspective, those are not very interesting business opportunities. They are well-covered in the market. We partner with many of the players. And we would much prefer to deepen our partnership with them than to go into competition with them.  

We are relentlessly focused on this new end user experience, which is multiplatform and based on the Internet. And that is where our future is. It is where the growth is. It is where the revenue and monetization is. And as I mentioned earlier, it is so large it makes no sense to divert our resources to these other and somewhat smaller opportunities.  

Let us take the final question.  

OPERATOR: Trina Choudhury, JMP Securities. And hearing no response, would you like to take another question?  

ERIC SCHMIDT: Yes, of course.  

OPERATOR: Mary Meeker, Morgan Stanley.  

MARY MEEKER, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: If we compare the third-quarter sequential results with the fourth-quarter results, I think you said on your last call your query growth was kind of flattish, and I don't want to put words in your mouth, or mouths, so please correct me if need be -- and the revenue growth was pretty powerful. So the monetization increase sequentially in the September quarter was very high.  

In this quarter you, in your press release and on the call, you talked about seasonal strength in traffic and also in monetization. Could you give us a little more color on the differences in the degree of incremental monetization you had in the fourth quarter versus the degree of incremental positive monetization you had in the third quarter? Thanks.  

ERIC SCHMIDT: This is Eric. We saw both strong user traffic in the December quarter, as well as continued improvements in the monetization. I would not characterize them as being, on the monetization side, as being materially different than the rate of improvement that we saw in Q3.  

We are continuing to invest heavily in improvements in quality. Those improvements in quality and many other enhancements that we offer in our product line result in continuous improvement every quarter in monetization on a constant road of traffic.  

In addition to that, traffic grew quite strongly, perhaps because of seasonality, perhaps because of gains in market share, or perhaps because of all the new products, or perhaps because of a combination of all three. But we know that both are working. And when both are working well, we see very, very strong revenue growth, which is, of course, wonderful.  

What I would like to do now, since we have run out of time, is go ahead and wrap up by saying that to all of you, first, thank you for taking the time to be on the call. We are very, very pleased with our performance of the business on every level -- the financial, the pace of innovation, the growth, the quality of the leadership in the Company, the positioning that we're in today.  

This is a very exciting industry to be in. And it is getting increasingly more interesting every day. We are very -- we're still very much in the early stages, and I think in my view, making tremendous progress of realizing the long-term vision that we have outlined over the last year or so with you to organize the world's information. And we are tirelessly committed to delivering this value to our users and to our shareholders.  

We are innovating and scale. And we are seeing strong user growth and strong revenue growth. And again, you see that in our numbers; you see that in our comments. Life online through Google, information plus search plus advertising, making all of that seamless, is not just a holy grail for the Company, but it also provides tremendous operating efficiencies, revenue growth, and we believe ultimately, very, very strong cash flow and profit growth.  

As an example, very, very large advertisers now see the ability to take large sets of business needs that they have and spread them across a pretty wide variety of products offered in many different markets through Google. The multiplicative effect that you get by strong revenue growth, strong user growth and strong product line growth and many new advertisers is what is going to currently, and we believe, continue to deliver very, very strong growth here in the Company.  

So thank you very much, again, to our users, our partners, all of our employees, our shareholders. I am very, very sure 2006 is going to be a very exciting year for Google. So with that, thank you very much.  

OPERATOR: Again, this does conclude today's conference. We thank you for your participation. You may disconnect at this time.  

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]  

   CO
goog : Google Inc.
   IN
i8395464 : Internet Search Engines | iint : Internet/Online Services
   NS
ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | gussec : Securities and Exchange Commission | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | ginda : Independent Agencies/Regulatory Bodies | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe
   PUB
FDCH e-Media, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020060214e21v0028u
  


 HD
 Q3  2005 Google Earnings Conference Call - Final  
   WC
9,509 words
   PD
20 October 2005
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.    

   LP
OPERATOR: Good day, everyone, and welcome to the Google Inc. third-quarter 2005 earnings conference call. This call is being recorded. At this time, for opening remarks and introductions, I'd like to turn the call over to Miss Kim Cheval (ph), Google's Finance Director. Please go ahead.  

KIM CHEVAL, FINANCE DIRECTOR, GOOGLE INC.: Thank you. Good afternoon. Welcome to our third-quarter earnings call. On the call today are Eric Schmidt, Chief Executive Officer; George Reyes, Chief Financial Officer; Larry Page, Founder and President, Products; Sergey Brin, Founder and President, Technology; Omid Kordestani, Senior Vice President, Global Sales and Business Development; and Jonathan Rosenberg, Vice President, Product Management.  

   TD
This call is being web-cast from our Investor Relations website. Additionally, our press release, issued a few moments ago, is now posted on our website. A replay of this call will be available within a few hours.  

Some of the statements we will make today are forward-looking, including statements regarding expected capital expenditures for 2005; our operational performance and margins; the prospects for growth in online advertising; our continuing abilities to grow and innovate; our expected traffic growth; the growth patterns of our AdSense network and our Google websites; the potential for the services we develop to benefit our users and partners; the expansion of our China operations and other international operations; our expected investments in our business and our expense growth; our future provision for income taxes and our effective tax rate; our plans with respect to providing wireless Internet access to San Francisco; our expectations with respect to our print ad business and strategic relationships; and our potential development of land at Moffett Field.  

These statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated by these forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include a variety of factors, some of which are beyond our control. These forward-looking statements speak as of today, and you should not rely on them as representing our views in the future. We undertake no obligation to update these forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances that occur after this call.  

Please refer to our SEC filings, including our Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2005, for a more detailed description of the risk factors that may affect our results. Copies of these documents may be obtained from the SEC or by visiting the Investor Relations section of our website.  

Also, please note that certain financial measures we use on this call, such as EPS, net income, operating income, research and development expense, adjusted EBITDA and free cash flow, will be expressed on a pro forma non-GAAP basis and have been adjusted to exclude charges related to stock-based compensation, or SBC, and in-process R&D, or IPR&D.  

Beginning this quarter, we will report our GAAP results as well as provide non-GAAP operating income, net income and EPS on a supplemental basis in our earnings release. Reconciliations of all non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP financial measures are also included in the earnings release, which may be obtained by visiting the Investor Relations section of our website.  

And with that, I would like to turn the call over to Eric.  

ERIC SCHMIDT, CEO, GOOGLE INC.: Thanks, Kim. I'd like to think everybody for joining us on our third-quarter 2005 conference call. It's great to talk with you all after our very successful secondary and a very strong quarter. What I will do is I will give a couple of introductory comments, and then we'll have George go through the numbers, as he always does. Larry and Sergey will join us with some comments about what we did in the quarter. And we've also asked Omid and Jonathan, previously introduced, to join us as part of the Q&A to provide even more depth into our business operations.  

As you've probably seen from the press release, we had another strong record-breaking quarter in terms of both revenues and profits, and we're very, very pleased, obviously. This is traditionally a slower season for Internet properties. So this momentum shows, at least from my perspective, that we're effectively connecting with our users and our customers, and so we're able to connect our users and customers in relevant and meaningful ways with all the existing and new products that we brought out.  

As we've said from the beginning, our focus is still on the long term. The results we've achieved may or may not, of course, be reflected in every forward quarter. In the near term, we're attracting a lot more business from FORTUNE 500 companies. We continue to build our index. But we believe that search networks as industries remain in their nascent stages of growth with great forward potential. We're going to continue, of course, our policy of no forward guidance, as you all would expect. So, George, why don't you go ahead and take us through the numbers?  

GEORGE REYES, CFO, GOOGLE INC.: Thank you, Eric. Before we dive into our Q3 results, I'd like to discuss our new reporting format. For the first time this quarter, we're providing non-GAAP or pro forma earnings as a supplement to our earnings reported on a GAAP basis. This quarter, non-GAAP earnings excludes charges related to stock-based compensation and IPR&D, as Kim suggested earlier.  

We believe that these and other non-GAAP measures will provide meaningful supplemental information regarding our performance and our liquidity. In our earnings release, we will include reconciliations to GAAP for all of these measures. So having said that, let's get started.  

We are extremely pleased with our results for Q3. As we have said before, Q2 and Q3 are traditionally our slowest quarters, and we are quite happy with the 14% sequential revenue growth we were able to achieve this quarter as our topline grew to $1.578 billion from 1.384 billion last quarter. Year-over-year revenues nearly doubled with an increase of 96% compared to Q3 of '04.  

GAAP operating income in the quarter was 529 million. This compares to GAAP operating income of 476 million in the second quarter, an increase of 11%. Non-GAAP operating income for the third quarter was 596 million. This compares to 523 million in Q2 of 2005, an increase of 14%.  

GAAP net income for the third quarter was 381 million, as compared to 343 million in the second quarter, an increase of 11%. Non-GAAP net income for the third quarter was 437 million, as compared to 381 million in the second quarter, an increase of 15%.  

GAAP earnings per share for the third quarter was $1.32 on 290 million diluted shares outstanding, compared to $1.19 for the second quarter on 287 million diluted shares outstanding. Non-GAAP earnings per share for the third quarter was $1.51 on 290 million diluted shares outstanding, compared to $1.33 for the second quarter of 2005 on 287 million diluted shares outstanding.  

Non-GAAP operating income, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP EPS are all pro forma measures net of stock-based compensation and IPR&D charges. This quarter, the stock-based compensation charge was 46 million, as compared to 47 million in the second quarter of 2005. The IPR&D charge was 21 million this quarter, with no IPR&D charge in Q2. The IPR&D charge relates to an acquisition in the third quarter.  

GAAP tax benefits related to stock-based compensation charges have been excluded from non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP EPS. The tax benefit related to stock-based compensation totaled 11 million in the third quarter and 9 million in the second quarter.  

Net cash provided by operating activities was 647 million for Q3, compared to 625 million in Q2. Adjusted EBITDA -- and by adjusted, we mean net income before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization, IPR&D and stock-based compensation -- increased 14% to 672 million, or roughly 43% of revenues in Q3, up from 590 million or, again, roughly 43% of revenue in Q2 of 2005.  

Capital expenditures for the third quarter totaled 293 million, compared to 157 million during the second quarter of this year. We are now estimating over $800 million in capital expenditures for 2005.  

Let's now dive into more of the details around both revenue and costs. Let's start with revenues. As I mentioned, total revenue grew to just under 1.6 billion this quarter. Our own Google sites again continue to grow faster than the Google network, showing sequential growth of 20%, as compared to 7% sequential growth for the partner network.  

Revenue from our own sites increased to 885 million in Q3 from 737 million in Q2 and represented 56% of total revenue this quarter, as compared to 53% in Q2. Revenue from the Google network with the third-party sites that display ads provided by Google increased to 675 million in Q3 from 630 million in Q2. The network represented 43% of total revenue, compared to 46% last quarter.  

On the international front, a key area of investment for us, we continue to make steady progress. This quarter, international operations contributed 39% of total revenue, compared to 39% last quarter and 35% in Q3 of '04. The UK contributed 15% of total revenues this quarter, as compared to 14% of total revenues last quarter.  

As we have discussed in the past, Q4 and Q1 are the strongest quarters for the online advertising industry and for Internet usage, while Q2 and Q3 are traditionally weaker, with Q3 being generally the weakest. This year's Q3 revenues came in stronger than we originally expected, due primarily to product improvements. This growth more than offset the expected seasonal slowdown in traffic.  

As you might imagine, it has been difficult for us to forecast the rate of product innovation and the impact it will have on our revenues. As you consider future estimates, bear in mind that we will continue to release product improvements with varying levels of impact on revenue, and that that impact will continue to be difficult to predict. Many of our product improvements are intended solely to improve the user experience and may or may not be accretive to revenue in the short term.  

Let's shift gears now and talk about costs and expenses. At Google, starting with cost of revenues, cost of revenues is comprised of traffic acquisition costs; credit card processing charges; the costs associated with our data centers; amortized expenses, which include purchased and licensed technologies. In the quarter, these costs increased to 654 million from 597 million in the second quarter, but decreased as a percentage of revenue to 41.4% from 43.1% in the previous quarter, primarily due to a reduction in TAC as a percentage of revenue, which I will discuss next.  

TAC, or the revenue share we pay our partners, increased to 530 million in Q3 from 494 million in Q2. TAC as a percentage of advertising revenue decreased from 36.1% in Q2 to 34% in Q3. This decrease is related primarily to the continued shift in our revenue mix from the Google network revenue to Google site revenue.  

In Q3 of 2005, R&D spending increased to 152 million from 96 million in Q2 or 9.6% of revenue, as compared to 6.9% of revenue last quarter. Excluding the IPR&D charge of 21 million, non-GAAP R&D totaled 131 million or 8.3% of revenue. The increase in R&D is due primarily to our successful engineering recruiting efforts. As we have stated for the last few quarters, you should fully expect to see growth in this expense line for the foreseeable future.  

On the sales and marketing front, sales and marketing expenses decreased from 7% last quarter to 6.7% this quarter, expressed as a percentage of revenue. In absolute dollars, spending increased 8% to 105 million from 97 million last quarter. This increase in spend reflects the natural growth of headcount and expenditures as we grow our business globally.  

On the G&A front, G&A increased 92 million in Q3 from 72 million in Q2 of 2005, an increase of 29%. On a percentage of revenue basis, G&A increased to 5.9% from 5.2% last quarter. This growth primarily reflects headcount increases in IT operations, human resources and recruiting, and finance and legal, which continue to be necessary to support the scope and scale of a business growing at our current pace.  

With respect to stock-based compensation, stock-based comp charges fell slightly this quarter to 46 million from 47 million last quarter. This number includes a smaller amount of stock-based compensation related to stock option awards issued previously, but now a growing component of stock-based compensation associated with grants of restricted stock units or what we call GSUs. Our non-GAAP results are net of these charges.  

Turning to operating margins, non-GAAP operating margins in the third quarter were 37.8% of revenues, compared to also 37.8% of revenues in the second quarter. Increases in R&D and G&A spending as a percentage of revenues were balanced by growth in higher-margin Google site revenue, resulting in steady-state margins quarter over quarter.  

Please note that as we have said in all of our public filings and as Eric has mentioned earlier, we intend to invest aggressively in our business when we see opportunities we believe will pay off in the long run, regardless of the short-term characteristics of the business. Our investments will be made in a thoughtful and measured manner.  

Let's now move to the income tax line. Our effective tax rate remained steady at 31% this quarter and continues to reflect the mix of business generated in the U.S. and the business generated through our Irish subsidiary. Our provision for income taxes was not materially affected by stock option activity, although we did realize a 105 million reduction in our income taxes payable as a result of this activity.  

We expect our effective tax rate to be approximately 30% for the full year of 2005, and we believe we should be able to maintain or reduce this rate in the long term. However, if future earnings recognized by our Irish subsidiary are not as proportionally great as we expect, our effective tax rate will be higher than our expectations.  

In terms of foreign exchange, we experienced a $23 million unfavorable impact to our revenue line from Q2 to Q3 as a result of an increase in the value of the dollar -- the U.S. dollar, primarily against the euro.  

Turning to the liquidity front, net cash provided by operating activities for Q3 totaled 647 million, as compared to 625 million for Q2. Free cash flow, another alternative measure of liquidity, is defined as cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures. This quarter, we generated $354 million in free cash flow. Our capital expenditures in the quarter were 293 million, compared to 157 million last quarter, and primarily reflect acquisition of additional land and office space to support our headquarters in Mountainview, California, as well as the purchase of production servers and networking equipment.  

As I suggested previously, we are now estimating capital expenditures for 2005 of roughly $800 million. Our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balances were just over 7.6 billion at September 30, up from 2.9 billion at the end of last quarter. The increase is primarily attributable to our follow-on equity offering, in which we raised 4.3 billion to support the future growth of our business.  

On the DSO front, DSOs increased slightly to 31 days from 28 days last quarter. This increase reflects the growth of our international business, where credit terms tend to be longer, as well as extended credit to certain customers in the United States.  

On a worldwide basis, we grew to 4989 full-time employees as of September 30, as compared to 4183 as of June 30 and 2668 as of September 30, 2004.  

Before I turn it over to Larry, I would like to update all of you with respect to the Google Foundation. We have pledged a $90 million cash contribution to our foundation in the fourth quarter. As this is a nonrecourse, nonrefundable donation, it will be recorded as an expense in Q4 and presented as a separate line item on our P&L.  

We don't expect to make further donations to the foundation for the foreseeable future. Over the next 20 years, we plan to donate or invest roughly 1% of our equity as of the IPO date. This equates to 3 million shares. These shares or their cash equivalents will be donated/invested over time in the Google Foundation.  

The $90 million cash contribution in Q4 equates to roughly 300,000 shares. Therefore, roughly 2.7 million shares of the 3 million allocated will remain available for investment in the foundation. In addition, we plan to donate or invest 1% of our profit on annual basis. We may also make investments in for-profit enterprises with a social objective. These equity investments will be recorded on our balance sheet. To the extent that they become impaired, we will have to recognize the appropriate write-downs on those investments when and if they occur.  

And with that, I'd like to turn the call over to Larry.  

LARRY PAGE, FOUNDER AND PRESIDENT, PRODUCTS, GOOGLE INC.: Thank you, George. Last quarter, we gained a lot of momentum in our goal to make the world's information universally accessible and useful. We were very happy with our progress, introducing quite a new number of new products and services. We celebrated our seventh birthday in September by launching a significantly expanded search index. It's about 1000 times larger than the index we had when we started. That makes Google three times larger than any other search engine, by our estimates.  

We've also done more work to personalize the Internet experience, with free downloadable applications like Google Desktop 2 and Google Talk. Desktop 2 has a desktop outlook search and a sidebar that is always there and gives you a snapshot of personalized information like e-mail, weather and photos in real-time. Google Talk is an instant text and voice messaging tool based on an open network.  

Google Local and Maps have been combined so people can get a local search and mapping information in one place. Google Earth has gained popularity since it came out in June, and in September, we updated it with data layers that index stories and images from National Geographic.  

We announced enhancements to Google Video and Blogger. Google Video is now available on more platforms with better viewing windows and controls without having to download any special Google software. And now we have Google Blog Search, a new service based on Google search technology that lets users search for blogs and posts.  

We introduced some new enterprise-level products and services. Companies can now offer Google Desktop Search on their employees' computers. And we lowered the price of the Google Minis, so small businesses can get an enterprise-level search solution at a better price.  

Getting people connected to information wherever they are continues to be a focus area for us. One highlight is a bid we've submitted to offer free wireless Internet access to the city of San Francisco. This is an opportunity to make San Francisco a test ground for new location-based technology.  

Finally, we continue to work hard on Google Print. This is an effort to create a giant card catalog of books online. Google Print search results only show snippets of a book unless we have the publisher's or author's permission to show more. This effort will ultimately help authors and publishers sell more books and users everywhere find the information they are looking for.  

Now, I will turn the call over to Sergey.  

SERGEY BRIN, FOUNDER AND PRESIDENT, TECHNOLOGY, GOOGLE INC.: Thank you, Eric. I have a few things to cover, including an update on our advertising programs, some key hires and industry collaborations, and an update on Google.org and the Google Foundation.  

Advertising continues to drive most of our business and we continue to expand our advertising products. The site-targeted advertising program we launched in Q2 has been widely adopted. More than 25% of Google's top 100 advertisers have run a site-targeted campaign, and the feedback has been positive.  

We're continuing to test the placement of ads from our vast advertising network into select U.S. print publications to connect publishers and advertisers. Ads from this program are currently running in PC Magazine and Maximum PC, and hundreds of other publications have expressed interest in participating.  

Internationally, we launched Picasa International, and we've extended our advertising sales and operations forces into several new territories. We've opened a sales office in Stockholm and plan to open offices in Tel Aviv and Poland. There were a number of announcements in China, including a new authorized reseller program and Google Local for China, as well as Google University Search and Google Public Service Search. These services offer free access to search for universities.  

In Q3, we completed over 20 new deals, including Univision.com and Sun, and renewed over 20 of our partnerships to distribute AdSense and search services around the world. Our agreement with Sun will allow millions of people who download the Java run-time environment to get the Google toolbar, and we look forward to working with them to find more ways to extend our mutual technologies.  

Our recent announcement with NASA Ames Research Center to collaborate on four areas of technology also includes provision for Google to develop up to one million square feet of land at Moffett Field. We're working on our preliminary plans and will keep you updated as things progress. We also look forward to working with them on a number of other projects.  

You may have seen some coverage on our initial investment into Google.org, the philanthropic effort we discussed in our Annual Report. Under the umbrella of Google.org, we've created the Google Foundation and have funded that with $90 million. As George mentioned, this doesn't hit the books until Q4, but we wanted to mention it because it's an important first step in our commitment to donate 1% of our equity and profits toward philanthropic efforts. This commitment is going to reflect the broader Google.org structure we've created, of which the Google Foundation is just one part, although that part is the one that has received the $90 million right now.  

I would also like to highlight several additions to our team in the past few months. Dr. Kaifu Lee has already started working on our new R&D center in China, and we welcome Dr. Vin Cerf, one of the fathers of the Internet, as our Chief Internet Evangelist, and Dr. Shirley Tilghman, the President of Princeton University, as our newest board member.  

Eric, over to you.  

ERIC SCHMIDT: Well, thanks very much, Sergey. Let's finish up here and get to your questions. We had another exceptional quarter, despite our expectations going into it. We're very much sticking to what we said in our original founders' letter about continuing to focus on end users and on the quality of information and advertising that they all need.  

What I'm particularly happy about this -- we're happy about this -- is how well it's working at scale. Internet access is becoming so ubiquitous, so practical, our lives are continuing to move online and change the way we live and do business. We focus on access to the information as much as the search itself because you need both.  

So with this reality, people are increasingly demanding more intuitive, personalized technologies, and we're building them. We believe that the most direct way to access the world's information is and will continue to be through Google. I encourage you to view our results as driven by a business model for instant and seamless access to the world's information, driven by the most relevant and complete set of information, and that's what people really care about. And we obviously have been able to innovate, because we built quite a talented team and enough computing power to enable it.  

Thank you for continuing to travel this road with us, if you excuse the metaphor, as we work to become the leading provider of access to the world's information. Look at our U.S. operation, our international operations, you can see it's really working very well.  

So with that, Larry, Sergey, George, Jonathan, Omid and I would like to take your questions one at a time. If there's time after everyone has had a first chance, we will of course come back with any more follow-up questions. So operator, can you begin the first question?  

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Scott Kessler, S&P Equity.  

SCOTT KESSLER, ANALYST, S&P EQUITY: I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about your plans to provide free Wi-Fi access to the city of San Francisco. What is the underlying business rationale? Do you plan on trying to do similar things in other areas of the country? Thanks a lot.  

LARRY PAGE: This is Larry. We are excited about expanding Internet access in general. We think it's really good for our business. As people have better access to the Internet, they do more searches and they use our services more. And so the San Francisco Wi-Fi is an experiment to see how we can provide some new services and also software, as we mentioned, localized software and things like that, in environments where people have really good access to the Internet. But we haven't announced plans to do anywhere else besides San Francisco yet.  

OPERATOR: Ben Schacter, UBS.  

BEN SCHACTER, ANALYST, UBS WARBURG: Congratulations on the quarter. I'm not going to ask about the quarters, because I'll let it speak for itself for now, but I want to talk about a big picture and discuss how you guys view alternative modernization methods to the current pay-per-click model, specifically what you think about pay-per-call, pay-per-action models and how they might work within Google's framework. And do you have a time frame in mind where you might introduce or at least test some of these methods?  

And also potentially related to that, could you comment on reports that you've been testing direct feeds from some potential classified ads partners and the thoughts you might have on the usefulness of Google potentially acting as a classified ad aggregator? Thanks.  

ERIC SCHMIDT: Thanks very much. Jonathan, do you want to take it?  

JONATHAN ROSENBERG, VP, PRODUCT MANAGEMENT, GOOGLE INC.: I think that was a pretty extensive question. I think I will defer to Omid on some of the pay-per-click and pay-per-call models, because I haven't been too much involved in that. I think the main ways we're really trying to focus on opportunities for increasing monetization, probably the biggest opportunity there, is what I think you've seen us do with the site targeting efforts, and that's really grown substantially in this last quarter. And basically what that does is it lets advertisers choose ways to add their ads and pay by CPM or an impression-based model.  

Omid, why don't you take the pay-per-click component?  

OMID KORDESTANI, SVP, GLOBAL SALES AND BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT, GOOGLE INC.: As Jonathan said, we're trying to really understand how best advertisers want to work with us. So, throughout this year, we've done a lot of work with our agencies and our sales force to really understand how do we bring this accountability to media, and we haven't really announced any specific products in that area, and just focused on finding the best way to bring the same kind of accountability we brought to CPC advertising in our current format and extend it beyond that.  

OPERATOR: Martin Pyykkonen, Hoefer & Arnett Investment Bank.  

MARTIN PYYKKONEN, ANALYST, HOEFER & ARNETT INVESTMENT BANK: Question on the AdWords versus AdSense mix. Obviously, the more the AdWords mix improves relative to AdSense, it allows you to spend more, essentially, on R&D and sales and marketing. And I'm just curious on the mix, to what extent that's a mix that you're driving or it's a natural evolution, etc., because obviously, that would give you some flexibility kind of going forward.  

And then secondly, the buzz out there is a lot about the paid clicks per search going up pretty significantly, and I'm just wondering in terms of your optimizing and working for advertisers what you're doing in that space to the extent it's algorithmic or other steps in that area.  

GEORGE REYES: This is George. I'll take sort of the mix question. We've been through a couple cycles on mix. Early on, it was a Google.com-driven business. And then we began in 2002 and 2003 to really build out the partner network. And that of course drove TAC up. And what we're seeing now, and it was rather precipitous this quarter, is very robust 20% growth in Google.com, with relatively modest 7% growth in the partner network. So we've been through cycles on this, both rich Google.com cycles and somewhat lean Google.com cycles, and it all depends at the rate -- really the driver is the rate at which the partner network is growing.  

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: This is Jonathan, just following up on our own monetization efforts. Basically, the way to understand the dynamics of what's driving most of that is you really just look at both ends of the advertising spectrum. And I think what you'll see is we're monetizing the business better at the global FORTUNE 1000 front, where we're coming up with lots of new product functionality that lets us reach customers, again, with site targeting and a lot of the aggressive ads quality improvement work that we've been doing to make the ads better targeted and more effective and increase their ROI.  

And then at the other end of the spectrum, and this is probably a significant component, too, if you look at the smaller advertisers in the small business space, we're developing lots and lots of ways of making it much easier for them to come onto the network and advertise. So the growth is coming in terms of the number of advertisers and the fact that we're giving them both tools at either end to monetize more effectively.  

OPERATOR: Jeetil Patel, Deutsche Bank Securities.  

JEETIL PATEL, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: A couple of questions. How do you think about kind of extending your ability to take existing advertising products and other services and bundling them together, such as potentially a PPC- and CPM-based product model, or maybe advertising and other areas that are ancillary to advertising and lead generation?  

And then secondly, you're halfway there with a performance-based model. How do you think about eventually looking to shift your advertising product to maybe a percentage-of-sale basis, which kind of seems like the most efficient model in terms of helping generate transactions for your advertisers?  

OMID KORDESTANI: This is Omid again. Again, as I said earlier, we are really looking at ways to bring this accountability and extend it to kind of the directions you're talking about. And one example I can give is ways that we try to simplify it for advertisers to bid basically one price and not have to have kind of different pricing models for their network, be it content sites or the search sites. And then we introduced technology called Smart Pricing, which allows us to kind of value traffic from different sites in different ways, and we do that by considering conversion information.  

So, again, built into the way the ad system is working to the way the network is working today, we're continuously looking for ways to make it simple, but bring it as close as possible to the ROI metrics that everyone is interested in.  

OPERATOR: Mark Mahaney, Citigroup.  

MARK MAHANEY, ANALYST, SMITH BARNEY CITIGROUP: You started off, Eric, by talking about some success, I think maybe recently, with the FORTUNE 500. Is there any way you can quantify that? I know at your analyst day earlier in the year, you had a number of your penetration amongst the FORTUNE 1000. Was there something particular that happened -- I know you have some new products -- but that really accelerated that penetration, and any update on what that level of penetration is? Thank you.  

ERIC SCHMIDT: The biggest change that was done in the sales force had to do with verticalization. We actually organized ourselves, of course, into a set of vertical teams that call one or two levels higher than they were before. Omid, do you want to describe that a little bit?  

OMID KORDESTANI: Sure. One of the major initiatives that I'm very proud of our organization really executing on this year was across the board trying to leverage the best channels to serve our customers. So internally, we call it -- we like to work with our customers the way they like to work with us. So be it through a third-party agency or coming to us directly online or working with our direct sales force.  

So what we've done is really made it very smooth for our customers and transition as many accounts to best channels that are best set up to serve them. So throughout the year, we've, as Eric mentioned, we have taken our field organizations and pushed them into an industry focus and have them both call and service accounts with an intention to the industry, the metrics in that industry, and again leverage all of our channels both within Google and our partners to service our customers the best way possible.  

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: This is Jonathan just following up. I think the really biggest component there is having, along with the sales force changes, moving into the brand budgets with the big FORTUNE 500 customers. And you know, I think this is a big secular trend that is benefiting Google and other online properties.  

So in addition to the new products that we've been launching, we're just seeing consumers spending more time online, and there are many examples, if you look at Paramount Pictures and others who are using multiple Google products with the launch of new movies like Hustle and Flow to spend more online across inventory that they weren't previously given access to.  

OPERATOR: Marianne Wolk, Susquehanna Investment Bank.  

MARIANNE WOLK, ANALYST, SUSQUEHANNA INVESTMENT BANK: Two quick questions. First of all, I was wondering if the Smart Pricing you referred to would benefit Google's network more than its partners -- just trying to understand why you're growing so much faster than your partners. Do the partner sites have as many of the new third links? And secondly, can you talk about some of the efforts you're making in the enterprise area? Thank you.  

OMID KORDESTANI: Sure. This is Omid. We believe, actually, as we look across a network, there's different characteristics we're seeing. There are some sites that are very commerce-focused that do perform better than our own inventory. So Smart Pricing really is designed to -- for the most part to take and really put a discount in areas where we see traffic that's just not as converting as well as we expect. And again, this is an area we're really focused on improving with additional science and focus on ROI metrics.  

In terms of the growth and kind of the mix in the quarter, it really had to do with the fact that Google is continuing globally to gain share in search, but a lot of our partners are doing as well. So it's -- again, as George mentioned, the metrics -- the shift was more toward our own properties. But in general, I think the across the board, both our partner network contributed well and the performance of our products really enhanced the monetization capability this last quarter.  

In terms of the enterprise business, we've really been focused on -- similar to the other parts of our business, serve the customers the way they want to work with us. We had a lot of focus on the government sales with our high-end systems and search clusters, but the Mini product itself is doing extremely well, and we have a lot of new customers, both in the SMB market as well as the kind of larger deployments with government and major FORTUNE companies.  

OPERATOR: Imran Khan, J.P. Morgan.  

IMRAN KHAN, ANALYST, J.P. MORGAN: One question. Can you talk a little bit about what's your motivation for adding a third link, and how did that impact your click-through rate or overall yield in terms of volume or monetization this quarter? Thanks.  

LARRY PAGE: This is Larry. I think that's a very good question. You would think sort of when we add more advertising links, we're just sort of increasing revenue, but decreasing quality or something like that. But when we really do this, we actually do more complex things. So we decide when to show the ads or not. And we can actually increase quality and revenue.  

So, typically the changes we make we think are going to do that, and we're usually correct about our predictions. But I think you'll see us make very many changes like that. We certainly would like to make very many changes like that in the future. And we just typically have a pretty long list. It's hard for me to go into the specifics of that, but like I said, generally we try to increase both quality and monetization when we make changes like that.  

OPERATOR: Mary Meeker, Morgan Stanley.  

BRIAN PITZ, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: It's Brian Pitz for Mary. On Yahoo!'s call the other day, they mentioned picking up former Google advertisers such as iVillage. Can you talk through what you guys are doing on the AdSense front to aggressively pursue and retain your publishers? And separately, would you give us any insight into the drivers of revenue for search this quarter or how those factors are trending? Thanks a lot.  

SERGEY BRIN: This is Sergey. I think that you hit the nail on the head with the sort of your former question, or the latter question to answer the former. The primary thing we work very hard for our AdSense publishers is to make sure they have good monetization, as well as a good user experience. And I think we're executing very well on that by virtue of developing the ad technologies, which are in many ways similar to the search technologies. They increase both end-user quality and relevance, as well as monetization.  

Now, there have been a handful of losses of accounts, relatively small ones. And I haven't seen any particular pattern. From what I -- I know that iVillage had some specialized functionality they were very interested in, sort of, and they weren't looking so much at the core monetization, which is what most publishers are interested in.  

OPERATOR: Robert Peck, Bear Stearns.  

BOB PECK, ANALYST, BEAR STERNS: It's Bob Peck here. My question relates around AOL, and while I know you can't comment on any rumors and speculation in the market, what I was wondering is if you could elaborate a little bit further about some of the other synergies right now you have with your partner, aside from just being a partner -- whether it be engineers working closely together, whether it be IM or VoIP integration. And while you're touching on that topic, if you could talk a little bit longer term on what you see as far as what Yahoo! and Microsoft are doing with their IM integration and where VoIP and IM ultimately could go as far as cross-platform integration?  

ERIC SCHMIDT: This is Eric. I feel like you've answered your question in the question. Of course, we can't comment on any rumors. I will tell you that AOL has been our longest and in many ways tightest partner for many, many years. We have teams that collaborate on a wide variety of activities. They have expanded their base. We study advertisers together. There are a number of areas of technology involving advertising and video and so forth that have been collaborative in nature. And that work continues, and we hope it will continue for many, many years. So they're a very, very, valued partner and we hope it will be true forever.  

With respect to the VoIP and instant messaging integration, it would really require me to speculate on some products that we are building and the structure of the industry, and of course we don't do that. It's obvious that instant messaging and Voice over IP are going to become very, very significant components of people's online experience. Google, as you know, has a product in that area called Google Talk, which we introduced over the quarter, which looks like it's doing extremely well.  

It may be helpful to say right at the top that we don't do the same thing as everyone else does. And so if you try to predict our product strategy by simply saying, well, so-and-so has a this and Google will do the same thing, it's almost always the wrong answer. We look at markets as they exist and we assume that they're pretty well served by their existing players. We try to see new problems and new markets using the technology that others use and that we build.  

OPERATOR: Christa Quarles, Thomas Weisel Partners.  

CHRISTA QUARLES, ANALYST, THOMAS WEISEL PARTNERS: First, I was wondering if as you look at free Wi-Fi mobile services, is your vision that three years from now, you'll still be monetizing all of that primarily through advertising? Or you see yourselves incorporating another revenue line?  

And then the second question would be just to comment on your views on thin client computing. Obviously, you started on a relationship with Sun. You have a history at Sun. I'm just wondering should we see cheap devices out there at some point and just your thoughts on that.  

ERIC SCHMIDT: For the first part of that question, Jonathan?  

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: I'm sorry. The second part was thin client and the first part was--?  

CHRISTA QUARLES: The idea that either -- will you always be monetizing through advertising?  

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: There are certainly products that we have today that we monetize in ways other than advertising -- Urchin, Google Earth, the enterprise product. But right now, the engine that really is driving our current economic prosperity is this big seachange that we've seen from transitioning off-line dollars to online. And if you look at the relative opportunity there, I think what you're going to see is that there's going to be significant more money transitioning into the pay-per-click model that we've evolved, and you're going to see the other types of efforts along with the brand advertising increasingly growing.  

I also think you're going to see other platforms that we'll be able to apply the ad network to, and we've been doing some experimenting in some of those areas with prints and magazines. And I think you'll see some continued growth there. But the main focus is absolutely going to be this seachange in advertising.  

So the second part of the question was really about sort of thin client models, and again, you're using a term that means a lot of things to different people. We prefer to think about it in terms of what does the end-user actually want? And the end-user basically wants to see the same kind of information on any device, anywhere, all the time. So if you call that thin client, then that's what we mean, and if you mean something else by thin client, then that's not what we mean.  

And the technology has moved to the point where it's possible to have a unified online experience that expands your mobile phone, your personal computer, all the new devices that are coming out in the next few years, and Google intends to be the primary mechanism for access and search of all that information. As we highlighted earlier, we've done a large number of our interesting deals with mobile operators already as part of that initial thrust.  

With respect to Sun, Sun has turned out to be a very valuable partner with respect to toolbar distribution and potential distribution of other open source technologies, and that's an important component of bringing end-user services to all these new devices to really give people choice as to which platform they really want to use.  

OPERATOR: Anthony Noto, Goldman Sachs.  

ANTHONY NOTO, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: I heard -- you guys have done an excellent job of leveraging the search productivity cycle elements and taking this information and driving better click-throughs coverage in PPC as well as leveraging site-targeted advertising. And I was wondering if you would comment on how those factors compare in the United States versus international on a relative basis? Is international at 30% of what you're doing in the United States? Is it at parity?  

And then someone mentioned going after other platforms. I was wondering can site targeting be done in IPTV with branded advertising through the television platform? Thank you.  

OMID KORDESTANI: This is Omid. We are -- to answer your question, internationally, again, we don't break down specific numbers. But what I can say is that one, as Eric noted last quarter, we're extremely busy building our capabilities. And what we're seeing is that this model is truly working very similarly across the globe. The transition to accountable media is happening. The interest in kind of the spectrum of advertisers from local advertisers to the large FORTUNE companies is happening.  

In China, for example, we recently signed four resellers that are doing a great job of bringing us new customers. And frankly, in areas where people -- probably some of these customers don't even have PCs. These advertisers are being set up by these resellers to purchase packages of clicks, in effect.  

So I think the metrics really all have to do with the maturity of the market. So in UK is obviously our strongest market, and obviously for us we're doing really well in Japan. But in terms of specific update, we're not breaking those down at this point. And the second question I think Jonathan would like to address.  

JONATHAN ROSENBERG: I was just following up on the first component of international. But the main thing that you really want to look at -- we tend to have a cycle as you look at each of these countries, and obviously this was led primarily in the U.S., and then you see in particular some of the Western European countries a little bit behind in terms of the amount of -- in terms of just the maturity of the online market.  

If you look internationally across the world, I think the main issue in terms of predicting the dynamic in the countries broadly is the scope of commerce. And so you see some countries where there isn't as much user behavior and interest in engaging in commerce online, or they don't have the shipping infrastructure to allow the transaction for goods and services to be consummated online. And so I think there's some areas there where some of the international areas are in kind of much more nascent stages of online commerce where you don't see the monetization.  

OPERATOR: Safa Rashtchy, Piper Jaffray.  

SAFA RASHTCHY, ANALYST, PIPER JAFFRAY: Congratulations on another awesome quarter. I wanted to dig in a little bit. I know you answered the (indiscernible) question with some of the questions that were asked. But I'd like to if I could dig into the discrepancy, which I believe is the biggest you've had so far in the growth of Google network and compared to your partners. I think Omid was talking about maybe alluding to potentially a market share gain that might have helped. Could you talk a little bit more about is this a stage of product introduction that you test on the Google network that we could see some of this in the coming quarters, come up within your partners, or is there a more permanent shift of traffic, or are there other things at play here?  

OMID KORDESTANI: It's Omid. I'll let others add any comments if you see fit here. I think we are actually observing this very, very closely, and what we're finding is some of the major partners we see in this space are long-term contracts that we've already established. And so there's not kind of significant big partnerships that we could established in the near term. And so the search network is pretty stable for us.  

We still see there is tremendous opportunity in the content network, and we're busy servicing that, both with our field organizations and our online services. So I think it's just the nature of how the traffics are evolving. You know, partners are spending on ways to -- on marketing to bring traffic to their sites. So in certain quarters, we see that have an effect on the traffic of the network. We see them changing their formats of ads versus -- the amount of ads they show versus the amount of search they show.  

So again, I think the trends are continuing and we're doing really well with our search properties and growing the share, and the partners are stable with us with their long-term contracts. And we're focused on the new areas like content targeting and site targeting to hopefully expand opportunities for everyone.  

ERIC SCHMIDT: Hi, Safa. Thank you. Good question. On the marketshare front, we do a lot of internal studies, and I know some of you guys do as well. And basically from what we can tell, it looks like we're holding or gaining marketshare, really, in virtually all markets. So I think the general trends that you read about and the external studies that you've seen are accurate.  

OPERATOR: Heath Terry, Credit Suisse First Boston.  

HEATH TERRY, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE FIRST BOSTON: I was wondering if you could talk just a little bit about Gmail. You know, as we continue to go through the beta period here, can you talk about just some of the trends that you're seeing, whether it's in signups, whether it's in click-through and monetization there. How does monetization within Gmail compare to what you see within your broader search business, and how would you have us think about the opportunity within mail for Google down the road?  

SERGEY BRIN: This is Sergey. We're very excited about Gmail, but at this stage we're looking at it as still a platform off of which to build rather than sort of a big revenue driver in itself. The kind of services that we're able to launch off of it, for example, Google Talk, that was mentioned earlier, but also many others that we're testing, we think it's a very interesting area to be in. We think there's a lot of innovation to be had just with e-mail, but also with the related communications areas and just dealing with people's important information, which I feel in most of our cases we have just a huge amount of information that's important to us that's in our e-mail. So we still view this as a platform for us to build off of, to experiments off of.  

OPERATOR: Due to time constraints, we'll take our final question from Paul Keung at CIBC World Markets.  

PAUL KEUNG, ANALYST, CIBC WORLD MARKETS: Very impressive revenue growth. I was wondering how much of the growth this quarter came from new products like the Google SMS, RSS ads or from the new initiatives like site targeting when you compare it with the more traditional monetization products. Or perhaps another way to think about it is would it be fair to say that you're accelerating sequential growth, which admittedly did not expect to be entirely due to these products and initiatives?  

ERIC SCHMIDT: This is Eric. When we look at the quarter, we see improvements in monetization across the board. The growth occurs by virtue of the focus on quality, building out the network, extending our partners, adding more advertisers -- it really spans all of the categories that you described. So it's not a single product that we introduced that somehow caused it to happen. It's a discipline around new product innovation that really touches across the entire portfolio of the Company.  

So with that, it looks like we're out of time, and I want to start by -- end by saying I really appreciate people taking the time to be on the call, to listen, to study what we're doing. Things are obviously going very well here. What you're seeing is you're seeing, I think, the consequence of a systematization of a business that's really about results and advertiser results, results around information, a metrics-driven model for end-users and for advertisers that has really, really scaled.  

What is great about this business is that it can be extended very, very broadly. The underlying principle that we've talked about, the principles of innovation, of how we manage our engineering teams, the focus around technology, creativity, the culture that has been built, in my opinion, will deliver these kind of results, these kind of opportunity for many years to come. This is a very, very, very big space that we are in. And that's why it's exciting to be part of Google.  

Thank you all so very much for spending time with us.  

OPERATOR: Once again, ladies and gentlemen, that concludes today's call. Thank you for your participation. You may disconnect at this time.  

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]  

   CO
goog : Google Inc.
   IN
i8395464 : Internet Search Engines | iint : Internet/Online Services
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | c22 : New Products/Services | gussec : Securities and Exchange Commission | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | ginda : Independent Agencies/Regulatory Bodies | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
FDCH e-Media, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020051103e1ak002bf
  


 HD
 Q2  2005 Google Earnings Conference Call - Final  
   WC
9,791 words
   PD
21 July 2005
   SN
FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.    

   LP
OPERATOR: Thank you for standing by and welcome to today's Google Incorporated second-quarter 2005 earnings conference call. This call is being recorded. Now at this time I would like to turn the conference over to Liz Bier (ph), Director of Business Optimization. Ms. Bier, Please go ahead.  

LIZ BIER, DIRECTOR OF BUSINESS OPTIMIZATION, GOOGLE: Great. Thanks very much. Good afternoon. Welcome to our second-quarter earnings call. On the call today are Eric Schmidt, Chief Executive Officer; George Reyes, Chief Financial Officer; Larry Page, founder and President of Products; and Sergey Brin, founder and President of Technology.  

   TD
This call is being webcast from the investor relations portion of our website. Additionally, our press release issued a few minutes ago is now posted on our site. A replay of this call will be available beginning in a few hours.  

Some of the comments we will make today are forward-looking, including statements regarding our operational performance, growth in online advertising, our continuing ability to grow and innovate, the expected effect of advertising and Internet usage seasonality on our business, our expected traffic growth, fluctuations in traffic acquisition costs as a percentage of revenue, the growth patterns of our AdSense network and our Google websites, our continued focus on international operations, our expense growth, especially in R&D, our future operating margin, our anticipated levels of stock-based compensation charges, our future provision for income taxes and effective tax rate, and the future effects of click fraud. These statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated by these forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include a variety of factors, some of which are beyond our control.  

These forward-looking statements speak as of today, and you should not rely on them as representing our views in the future. We undertake no obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date they were made.  

Please refer to our SEC filings, including our report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2005, for a more detailed description of the risk factors that may affect our results. Copies of these documents may be obtained from the SEC or by visiting the investor relations portion of our website.  

Also, please note that certain financial measures we use on this call, such as free cash flow and adjusted EBITDA, are generally expressed on a non-GAAP basis, and therefore have been adjusted to exclude certain items such as charges in connection with stock-based compensation and in-process R&D. A presentation of the most directly comparable GAAP financial information for the quarter ended June 30, 2005 and the reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP financial measures are included either in the substance of this conference call or in the financial statements accompanying today's earnings release, which, as previously mentioned, are available on our investor relations website.  

With that, I would like to turn the call over to Eric.  

ERIC SCHMIDT, CEO, GOOGLE: Thanks very much, Liz. I want to thank everyone for taking the time to get on our call this afternoon and welcome you all to Google.  

We had a very strong quarter -- US business very strong; international business very strong; numerous product introductions and very strong user adoption across the board. What we're going to do is have George, our CFO, take you through the financials. Larry will take you through some of our most interesting end-user products. Sergey will talk about some of our international operations and our advertising products. And I will return with some vision comments and statements of where we're going. Then we will be very happy and interested in taking your questions.  

I do want to remind everyone, and I think everyone on the call knows this, that we don't give guidance. I would like to emphasize that Q2 and Q3, particularly Q3, the one that we're now in, that we will be announcing in October, is historically a slower quarter for sequential growth for both Internet traffic and for advertising expenditures as to the summer patterns and international behavior and that kind of thing. Last year's quarter was particularly strong in Q3 because of improvements in our ability to monetize traffic and perhaps because of the publicity surrounding our IPO approximately a year ago.  

I also want to make sure everyone knows that we're going to continue to aggressively invest in our business. We see very, very big and wonderful opportunities ahead of us, just as we've done in Q2. And you should expect that to continue for quite some time.  

So with that, George, let's turn it over to you and you can take us through the results.  

GEORGE REYES, CFO, GOOGLE: Thank you Eric. I'm personally very pleased with our results for Q2 of 2005, especially given the seasonality of Q2 and Q3. So what I would like to do now is begin to walk you through the income statement.  

As you can see, our revenues grew sequentially by 10% as our top line grew from 1,384,000,000 -- as our top line grew to 1,384,000,000 from 1,256,000,000 last quarter.  

Operating income for the quarter was 476 million. This compares to 171 million in Q2 of 2004, an increase of 178% on a sequential basis. Our operating income increased 7.4% from 443 million in Q1 of 2005. Please note that like previous quarters our reported operating income for this quarter includes a non-cash charge related to stock-based compensation. This quarter the charge is 47 million as compared to 75 million in Q2 of 2004 and 49 million in the first quarter of 2005.  

Net income for the second quarter was 343 million as compared to 79 million for last year's second quarter, an increase of 334%. Net income this quarter is down from the 369 million we reported last quarter because we accrued taxes at a rate of 31% this quarter versus a 19% rate last quarter, primarily reflecting the GAAP accounting for certain tax benefits related to stock option activity which reduced our tax expense last quarter, but were recorded as equity this quarter.  

This quarter we achieved a net margin of 24.8% as compared to the net margin of 11.3% we achieved in the year-ago second quarter.  

Diluted net income per share for the second quarter was $1.19 on 287 million diluted shares outstanding compared to $0.30 in the second quarter of 2004 on 266 million shares outstanding and $1.29 for the first quarter of 2005 on 287 million shares outstanding.  

Net cash provided by operating activities was 625 million for Q2, an increase of 18% over net cash provided by operating activities of 530 million for Q1 of 2005.  

Adjusted EBITDA -- and by that we mean net income before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization and non-cash, stock-based compensation charges and in-process R&D -- increased by approximately 42 million or 8% to 590 million, or 43% of revenue in Q2 from 548 million or 44% of revenue in Q1 of 2005.  

Capital expenditures for the quarter totaled 158 million compared to 142 million during the first quarter of this year.  

Let's now talk about revenues. As mentioned previously, total revenue grew to 1,384,000,000 this quarter. As in recent quarters, our Google sites again grew faster than the Google network, showing sequential growth of 12% as compared to 8% growth for the network on a sequential basis. Revenue from our own sites increased to 737 million in Q2 from 657 million in Q1, and represented 53% of total revenue this quarter as compared to 52% in Q1. Revenue from the Google network increased to 630 million in Q2 from 584 million in Q1. The network represented 46% of total revenue compared to 47% last quarter.  

On the international front we remain intently focused on non-US opportunities. We consider the long-term international opportunity compelling. This quarter international operations contributed 39% of total revenue, consistent with the first quarter.  

As we have discussed in the past, Q4 and Q1 are the strongest quarters for the advertising industry and for Internet usage, while Q2 and Q3 are traditionally weaker with Q3 generally the weakest of all quarters. For a number of reasons, not the least of which was the introduction of an important improvement in our advertising product and the publicity surrounding our IPO, last year's third-quarter results were unusually strong. In 2005 we are tracking to traditional advertising and Internet traffic seasonality and we expect that to continue. Therefore, as you contemplate your third-quarter estimates, I encourage you to factor in what you know about both domestic and European summertime seasonality, as well as the increasingly significant contribution from Europe, by far the largest of our international markets, to our top line.  

Let's now move to our cost structure, beginning with cost of revenue, followed by a walk through each of the line items in our P&L to give you a better sense and understanding of our investments. Let's start with cost of revenues.  

At Google cost of revenue is comprised mainly of traffic acquisition costs, or TAC, expenses associated with the operation of our data centers, credit card processing charges, and other transaction fees and amortized expenses associated with purchased and licensed technologies. In the second quarter these costs rose to 597 million or 43% of revenue from 545 million, also 43% of revenue, in the previous quarter. TAC, or the revenue we share with our partners, increased to 494 million in Q2 from 462 million in Q1 of 2005. Some of these costs reflect revenue share agreements, while other parts reflect certain guaranteed payments that we have discussed previously.  

As we mentioned last quarter, our TAC as a percentage of ad revenue will fluctuate from quarter to quarter for many reasons, including the performance of our partners and the specific arrangements we have made with them, as well as our own revenue mix.  

Moving to the R&D front, in Q2 of 2005, R&D spending rose to $96 million from 79 million in Q1 or 6.9% of revenue as compared to 6.3% of revenue last quarter, an increase in absolute dollars of 21%. The increase in R&D reflects our strong hiring efforts, as well as increases in R&D-related facilities expenses and investments in technology.  

We are pleased to have many new talented engineers joining us this summer. We echo our comments of last quarter where we said that great engineering is the foundation upon which we have built Google. So you should fully expect to see continued growth in this expense line in the coming quarters.  

On the sales and marketing front sales and marketing increased as a percentage of revenue sequentially to 7% from 6.6% last quarter, while increasing in absolute dollars to 97 million from $83 million, an increase of 17%. This primarily reflects the growth of our US and European sales efforts and the continued growth of promotional and advertising expenditures to support our worldwide expansion.  

Turning to G&A, G&A increased to 72 million in Q2 from 57 million in Q1 of 2005, an increase of 25%. On a percentage of revenue basis, G&A increased to 5.2% of revenue from 4.6% last quarter. This growth reflects the continued effort to attract the highest caliber talent to build out the infrastructure necessary to support a company of our scope and scale.  

Specifically, Q2 saw notable increases in professional services and our Sarbanes-Oxley compliance efforts, as well as audit services.  

On the stock-based compensation front, charges fell modestly this quarter to 47 million from 49 million last quarter. This number includes a smaller amount of stock-based compensation related to stock option awards issued previously, but a now-growing component of stock-based compensation associated with grants of restricted stock units or what we call Google stock units or GSUs. This quarter we granted 61 million GSUs as compared to none in Q1, a trend we previously stated we would continue throughout the year. The expense related to these GSUs will be recognized over a four-year vesting period and will reduce our reported operating profit.  

The net result of all of these matters we've been discussing is that our operating margin on a GAAP basis was 34.4%, down from our reported operating margin of 35.2% last quarter. Recapping what we stated above, this decline reflects an increase as a percentage of revenue in cost of revenue, research and development, sales and marketing, and G&A, offset very slightly by a decrease in stock-based compensation as a percentage of revenue.  

Please note, as we have said in all of our public filings, and as Eric mentioned earlier, we intend to invest aggressively in our business when we see opportunities we believe will pay off in the long run regardless of other short-term characteristics of our business. Therefore, you should not expect us to link our spending to revenue growth patterns. Revenue growth is seasonal; expense growth with many new hires coming on board in the summer along with other timely expenditures, is not seasonal. We reinforce that comment today and reiterate our previously issued caution that over time and for a variety of reasons operating margins may decline.  

Let's now talk about income taxes. Well, here is some particularly good news -- there is very little of interest to report on our income tax line. As we suggested last quarter, our effective tax rate of 31% reflects the mix between the portion of our business generated in the US and that generated through our Irish subsidiary. Unlike the past few quarters, our provision for income taxes was not materially affected by stock option activity, although we did realize a 143 million gross increase to our income taxes receivable as a result of this activity.  

We continue to expect our effective tax rate to be less than 30% for the full year of 2005, and we believe we should be able to maintain or reduce this rate in the long-term. However, if future earnings recognized by our Irish subsidiary are not proportionally as great as we expect, our effective tax rate could be higher than our expectations.  

On the foreign exchange front, for Q2 we experienced a 12 million unfavorable impact to our revenue line, or roughly 1% of revenue quarter-over-quarter. This was primarily due to the weakening of the euro and the pound. On a year-over-year basis, we experienced a $21 million favorable impact from these same currencies.  

On the net income front, we generated income of 343 million or 24.8% of revenue. As mentioned earlier, this is down from 369 million or 29.4 we reported in the first quarter of this year because we accrued taxes at a 31% rate this quarter versus a 19% rate in the prior quarter. A year ago in the second quarter we achieved a net margin of 11.3%.  

Let's move to the liquidity section. Net cash provided by operating activities for the quarter ended June 30 totaled 625 million as compared to 530 million for Q1 of 2005, an increase of 18%. In the second quarter of 2004 we generated 163 million in cash flow from operations.  

Free cash flow, another alternative measure of liquidity to GAAP net cash provided by operating activities, is defined as cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures. This quarter we generated 467 million in free cash flow.  

Our capital expenditures in the quarter were 158 million as compared to 142 million last quarter, and primarily reflect investments in our global infrastructure and real estate. We view these investments as critical components of our strategy as ultimately the quality and reliability of our services are key competitive differentiators. CapEx in the year-ago quarter was 96 million.  

Adjusted EBITDA -- and by adjusted we mean before the non-cash, stock-based compensation charge and in-process R&D -- is another alternative measure of liquidity to GAAP net cash provided by operating activities. Adjusted EBITDA increased by approximately 42 million or 8% to 590 million or 43% of revenue in Q1 from 548 million or 44% of revenue in the March 2005 quarter.  

The reconciliations of adjusted EBITDA and free cash flow to the GAAP measure of liquidity, net cash provided by operating activities is set forth in our earnings release. A copy of this release is posted on our website.  

Our cash, cash equivalent and marketable security balances were more than 2.9 billion at June 30, up from 2.5 billion at the end of the last quarter. The increase was primarily attributable to cash generated from operations.  

Days sales outstanding increased to 28 days from 27 days last quarter.  

On a worldwide basis we grew to 4183 full-time employees as of June 30 as compared with 3482 as of March 31, 2005 and 2292 as of June 30, 2004.  

One final topic from me before I turn the call over to Larry. There has been a great deal of attention in the media about click fraud. Let me reiterate what we have been saying for some time. Click fraud is an issue we take very seriously and continue to resource accordingly. Thanks to the efforts of our team, it has never been a material problem for Google and we work very hard to make sure that it stays that way. While we cannot promise that we will be able to prevent all instances of click fraud, we're very pleased with the results to date.  

And with that, I would like to turn the call over to Larry.  

LARRY PAGE, FOUNDER AND PRESIDENT OF PRODUCTS, GOOGLE: Thank you George. We believe that one of the most competitive advantages for us is the pace at which we innovate. Last quarter brought many new products, features and services to our users.  

There were several developments in mapping. At the beginning of the quarter we integrated the Keyhole technology we acquired last year into Google Maps. This added a satellite view and made navigating the map much easier. This enhanced Google Maps product inspired so many developers to write their own applications to interact directly with our product that we introduced the Google Maps API so that developers can embed Google Maps into their own web pages with JavaScript.  

At the end of the quarter we also introduced a free enhanced version of Keyhole which we now call Google Earth. This new product includes 3-D buildings and terrain, integrates local search and video playback of driving directions.  

Google is also determined to personalize and make your Internet experience better. We introduced personalized homepage options for users who want to bring together Google functionality in one place. The personalized homepage lets users read their e-mail, see news headlines, and get driving directions and other information all from their own Google homepage.  

We also introduced My Search History, which allows users to keep a record of their past searches so that they can find them faster than starting from the same search again later. More recently we integrated My Search History as a feature to Google Personalized Search, which we introduced on Google Labs and which improves users Google search experience by taking into account what they've looked for in the past.  

To make browsing faster, we offer Google Web Accelerator also on Labs which speeds the delivery of web pages as users navigate the web by pre touching (ph) and compressing data.  

Video was another important area with many new developments. We recognize the vast majority of video content is not online yet, and we want to help make that happen. So early last quarter, we introduced Google Video Upload Program that enables content owners worldwide to upload their digital video files. Next we added many new TV channels, including ABC News Now, Discovery Channel, The Food Network, here!, CNN, TLC, and Animal Planet among others. At the end of last month we announced Google Video Playback, which offers the Google Video viewer a free browser plug-in that enables users to watch videos they signed with Google.  

We also made progress with our other major content acquisition program, Google Print. Thus far we have signed up publishers from around the world covering many languages and we continue to scan books at major libraries with which we have partnered.  

As we work to make off-line information searchable online, we have committed to respecting and taking a conservative approach to how we handle other peoples' content, just as we have with all of our web search services. We've already built considerable copyright protections into these products and we respond quickly when users and copyright owners let us know about any problems.  

Some have raised concern about our initiatives. This is not unexpected. Technology advances almost always raise questions and challenges, and we think that's a healthy part of the pioneering work we're trying to do at Google. We will continue to consult and work with our industry partners to make sure we fairly balance the needs and rights of content providers with the value we believe these new forms of content will offer to users.  

In the past quarter we also introduced an enterprise version of our Google Desktop Search Application, adding new enterprise-level security, configuration and deployment controls. We also added a mobile feature to Blogger which enables users to post their blog from a mobile phone and photos if they have a camera phone. And we made it easier to post photos to Blogger from a computer too.  

In the mobile area we made Google local and driving directions more accessible via mobile phones. And we launched Google Mobile Web Search, a new service that enables people with mobile phones to access and index on web pages specifically designed for mobile phones.  

I would now like to turn the call over to Sergey.  

SERGEY BRIN, FOUNDER AND PRESIDENT OF TECHNOLOGY, GOOGLE: Thank you Larry. I'd like to update you on our advertising programs. The online advertising market continues to grow, and we continue to attract advertisers based on the ROI accountability and scale of our ad network.  

We've also been addressing the needs of brand-focused advertisers. In April we introduced site-targeted advertising. With this, advertisers can more precisely target consumers by placing their ads on specific sites they select. These ads are priced using CPM bidding and compete for placement on a site with other CPM and CPC ads in our auction. Our CPM systems are distinct from others, however, because advertisers still pay only the minimum price needed to run an ad on that site. And advertisers using site targeting can choose from multiple text and image ad formats. Dozens of our largest advertisers are already using this new program.  

We believe large and small advertisers are not served well today. And as a result we will continue to innovate to meet their demands.  

I would also like to share a bit with you about international developments. We have continued to expand internationally, both geographically and with products. This quarter we opened our first offices in Latin America, one in Sao Paulo, Brazil, the other in Mexico City, Mexico. Just yesterday we announced the acquisition of Akwan Information Technologies, the leading Latin America search technology company based in Brazil. With this acquisition we're also opening our first R&D center in Latin America. It's an important market for us where Google already has a strong base of users and we're looking forward to growing even more there.  

In Europe we announced our Nordic regional office in Stockholm, Sweden, and we added a new managing director for Germany, Austria, Switzerland and Scandinavia. Europe is a strong region for Google and we're continually scaling operations and product offerings to meet the business opportunity there.  

In China we've opened a rep office in Shanghai. And this week we announced plans to open an R&D facility in China this quarter led by Dr. Kai-Fu Lee, a renowned computer scientist who recently joined us and will serve as Vice President of Engineering and President of Google China.  

Our international product developments included extending our popular Google Maps product to the UK; making Google Desktop Search available in Chinese, Japanese and Korean; introducing eight new languages for Gmail, including Chinese, Japanese and Korean. We also launched a promotion with T-Mobile featuring Google Search on all their high-end handsets in Germany, Austria, and the UK. And we signed partnership with Thomson Directories to be a reseller of Google AdWords across the UK.  

Lastly, I'd like to update you on our Founders Award program which we've mentioned previously. This continues to be an important program at Google, an important part of our efforts to attract and retain the world's best talent. In the last quarter we awarded $20 million to six teams for their significant contributions. These awards are given in restricted stock and vest over four years. The Founders Award program is just one example of the creative ways we design our compensation programs to be fair, incentive building, and industry-leading.  

Eric, back to you.  

ERIC SCHMIDT: Thanks very much Sergey. We're nearing the one-year mark of our IPO, and in the last year we have certainly learned a lot as a public company. But as I reflect back on it, I think we're very much the same core company with the same core values. And we're really focused as a Company around the innovation for end users.  

When we look at the landscape we pay attention to a number of important technology trends, key ingredients that are changing the way we go about our lives and the way the world does business -- broadband, particularly wireless; mobile devices; cheap, powerful PCs; the proliferation of content and applications available online. When we talk about our mission we often focus on the organizing the information part, but access to that information is also critical because access to the Internet is becoming ubiquitous through access to wireless sites at cafes and airports, mobile devices with greater and greater functionality. We have announced some deals in that area this quarter. Powerful, cheap PCs often equipped with WiFi also means more and more people are online and that they're spending more of their time online.  

Content is also moving online. Larry mentioned this. Readers are getting their news online. Video content is increasingly available online. Paper maps have given way to digital online applications. Increasingly we're not tethered to our own computer. Applications that we use are online, not just on our computer. For example, people are accessing their e-mail from any computer, not just their office desktop.  

So taken together these few illustrative technology developments illustrate how our lives are moving online. And Google, if you look at our products of Gmail, the mobile offerings, the video efforts, Google Maps, some of the ones we have highlighted, others that you all know about, we're innovating and aiming very much to be a leader as our lives move online and as users demand increasingly personalized technologies. The most direct way to access the world's information will be through Google. We're very excited about the talent we have assembled, the scale that we can operate in, the computing power of the technology that we have built here, and all of the innovation that is now enabled by all of this. We hope you will continue to travel with us everyday here at Google. We're very much going to be the leading provider of access to the world's information.  

So with that, Larry, Sergey and I and George would like to take your questions. I'd like to remind you that we have enough time just for one question. And if there's time after everyone has had a first chance, we will come back with any follow-up questions.  

With that, Operator, would you like to begin?  

OPERATOR: (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS) Mary Meeker, Morgan Stanley.  

MARY MEEKER, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: I really wanted to ask a question about the opportunities in the video space. Larry, you talked about some of the stuff you're doing there with upload.video.Google.com. The search experience today for video is still not what it can be. In fact, it's a long way from it. There's certainly some resistance in the industry to tagging a lot of the video that's out there, setting it up for search. There are certainly concerns about monetization. It feels to us like it's a big opportunity for all players. Do you think the next 12 months will be a breakthrough period for the space? How are you working with the content providers out there? How do you think you make progress? Or is it more of a two to three year breakthrough time period?  

ERIC SCHMIDT: In the video deals we're trying very much to respect the content owners' rights and the way their business models work. They're very interested in access to this new channel. We already have the upload mechanism that you cited in your question. And we are doing partial playback. Some of the videos are available, and we're working on ways to pay the content owners. We're also building digital rights management solutions that will allow their rights and their concerns about copying and illegal copying and that sort of thing to be addressed. All of those deals and all of that product will ship in the next 12 months. So I think you'll see a material change in how people use videos.  

With respect to the searchability, virtually all of the interesting content that we've talked to have closed captioning of one kind or another as a starting point. And historical documents are being converted to include that.  

Next question.  

OPERATOR: Imran Khan, JPMorgan.  

IMRAN KHAN, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: You recently announced that you're reducing minimum bid for high-quality keyword to as low as $0.01. I was wondering if you could just talk about the motivation behind this change, like what is your intent and outcome of this. Are you looking for higher click through, higher conversion or better user experience?  

ERIC SCHMIDT: This is one of the changes that we've made that increases quality. By varying the minimum bid there are certain keywords and keyword markets where low price indicates low quality and there are some where lower price means higher quality. So every change we've made in the advertising system is ultimately correlated to a quality improvement. I wouldn't just focus on that one change because remember we make numerous changes that are consistent with quality, and that just happened to be the one that people noticed.  

OPERATOR: Lauren Fine, Merrill Lynch.  

LAUREN FINE, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: I'm wondering if you could give us more of a breakdown from a financial perspective on the international versus domestic breakdown of revenue in the quarter and the relative growth rates.  

ERIC SCHMIDT: George, go ahead.  

GEORGE REYES: Could you repeat it?  

ERIC SCHMIDT: The question was --  

LAUREN FINE: The breakdown between international and domestic revenues.  

GEORGE REYES: We actually don't break that out, but suffice it to say that our international revenues were very strong. They were 39% of revenue, and you really see that in the materials that are on our website. So it's a 61-39 split.  

LAUREN FINE: And the relative growth rates, how much faster was international than maybe total revenue growth?  

GEORGE REYES: International is just performing really well, and I will leave it at that. It's a strong part of our business.  

OPERATOR: Anthony Noto, Goldman Sachs.  

ANTHONY NOTO, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Thank you very much. If you look at the growth rates on a year-over-year basis in the second quarter on a gross revenue basis for Google web sites versus Google network web sites, it appears that the Google web sites grew at about 114, 115% which is a slight slowdown from the year-over-year growth rate in the first quarter of about 160.5%. The Google network web sites, on the other hand, actually accelerated to 82% year-over-year growth from 75%. I'm just wondering is that acceleration for Google network web sites on a year-over-year basis, is that due to new partnerships, better monetization at the network sites or some other underlying trends?  

ERIC SCHMIDT: Anthony, I would caution you to not focus too much on quarter-to-quarter differences in that. These are long-term deals and partnerships. The Google web growth did well, as you mentioned. The partners did particularly well, and that's because a number of them had a strong user growth and also did even better revenue growth than we had expected, which is great for them and great for the network. But there's also seasonality there as well. Some of the partners have different distribution structures, US versus international mixes. So I wouldn't get -- I would look for a trend over more than just one quarter.  

OPERATOR: Mark Mahaney, Smith Barney.  

MARK MAHANEY, ANALYST, SMITH BARNEY: In the past, the last two quarters you've made some comments about pricing flexibility you thought that the format had, what sort of receptivity advertisers had to current prices and potentially to higher prices. Can you give us an update on what kind of response you're getting from your ad buyers to pricing trends?  

ERIC SCHMIDT: We've done pretty extensive studies about this question, and all of the data that we get, both in the United States and internationally, is that we're still very much the low-cost provider of revenue, if you will, on a cost per revenue dollar basis. The estimates that we come up with -- and these are estimates; it's hard to prove them -- are that it's between a factor of two and a factor of four. In other words, 25% of the cost of any of the other choices.  

We have subsequently analyzed popular keywords, less popular keywords. You can always find one keyword where the pricing is really correct and other ones are under-priced. So if you look at the universe of keywords, it appears to us correct to say that there's significant room for the combination of the auction, more advertisers, more demand, to cause the prices to rise, which is obviously good for Google. There's no evidence right now that at least in aggregate we have topped any of the major categories or markets.  

OPERATOR: Michael Gallant, CIBC World Markets.  

MICHAEL GALLANT, ANALYST, CIBC WORLD MARKETS: I was wondering if you could update us on US local and your kind of go-to-market strategy. It represents in my mind probably a bigger opportunity than your current business, but probably a bigger challenge in terms of capturing the economics. I was hoping you could kind of talk a little bit about kind of the go-to-market strategy there and how it's going to be different potentially than the way you're set up today.  

SERGEY BRIN: Excellent question about the local. We're focusing on building the local business much as we built the web search business originally. That is creating a great user value with the most comprehensiveness and relevance in the results. And you can see that in our products such as maps, such as Google Earth, such as the partnerships that we're forming. And local services are obviously a very -- have high potential monetization also, which we're focusing on. But that is secondary at this point because we feel that there's so many products to develop and create so much more usage. I think that's the number one thing for us to do right now.  

OPERATOR: Jordan Rohan, RBC.  

JORDAN ROHAN, ANALYST, RBC: I was hoping somebody over there could give me some commentary on the type of seasonality that you're discussing here, particularly by geography. Do you have some understanding within Europe whether the UK is more or less seasonal than Germany, France, Italy, Spain? Or the state of growth, how rapid is the growth in those smaller markets in Europe?  

ERIC SCHMIDT: We have not broken out the specifics in these other countries. It is traditional, as you know, for the European business to slow during the common overlapping holiday period for folks in those countries. There's some seasonality in the United States as well, but it's primarily driven by Europe. And our European business in aggregate is growing so quickly and is such a strong driver of both revenue and profits that we're more and more exposed to that seasonality. So if you look at, say, three years ago it was a small component driving it, and now the effect of it is much more visible in our revenue and profitability.  

OPERATOR: Bob Peck, Bear Stearns.  

BOB PECK, ANALYST, BEAR STEARNS: Congratulations. I wanted to focus on a bigger picture question here. Sergey or Larry, could you maybe focus on some of the changing technologies and how they are affecting search, particularly RSS and how you have seen the success of RSS so far, and ultimately how you look at tagging and how you think tagging will impact the business going forward?  

SERGEY BRIN: Yes, we're excited by all the wealth of developments going on out there, RSS among them, because these are great things that can improve our comprehensiveness and freshness.  

In addition, you mentioned tagging. And the various forms of more precise user-generated kind of structures data that we're able to get, I think the better the search experience we will be able to produce. Now today the amount of the latter that is out there is fairly small. But it's indicative of potential in the future.  

OPERATOR: Mark May, Needham & Company.  

MARK MAY, ANALYST, NEEDHAM & COMPANY: Just wondering if you can give us a sense of the percent of revenues from the Google sites that you're generating from some of the newer properties, Gmail, maps, etc.  

ERIC SCHMIDT: We have typically not broken out the details. We don't actually prioritize revenue for the new products very high compared to user adoption. We have the benefit of a strong ad network and this amazing technology in the advertising system across both Google and the Google network properties that we were talking about earlier. So we have had the luxury of being able to develop the end-user adoption for Gmail, local maps and so forth.  

Over a year or two they typically become quite profitable. But initially they often are released without even any advertising support. It makes sense to me that eventually with adoption rates of Gmail which is doing so very well, and then the local search, local advertising which is this huge market, they should become very, very large drivers of revenue for Google. But they're not today.  

OPERATOR: John Tinker, ThinkEquity.  

JOHN TINKER, ANALYST, THINKEQUITY: I wonder if you could update us a little on Orchid (ph). I understand it's very strong in Brazil where you're expanding it. What are your plans in the social networking space?  

SERGEY BRIN: You're absolutely correct. Orchid's growth in Brazil has been phenomenal, and it's surpassed anything any of us could have imagined even a few months ago. Right now, being such a popular product, we're focused on adding functionality, as well as scaling the systems various ways. It's also important to us that usage of Orchid help us drive usage of many of our other products. These are efforts that we're beginning to undertake as well.  

OPERATOR: Heath Terry, Credit Suisse First Boston.  

HEATH TERRY, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE FIRST BOSTON: I was hoping you could talk a little bit about the developments that have been happening in China. Clearly you've been active in that market or activity in that market seems to have picked up recently. I was wondering if you could just talk about the challenges that that market specifically poses for you, particularly as it relates to things like the distribution model or the distributor model that's used there and the government's content filtering requirements.  

LARRY PAGE: I think China is obviously a very exciting market in general and also for Google. We have actually a very significant market share in China. We're just ramping our business operations there, which Sergey mentioned briefly. I think there's tremendous opportunity for us there with our existing market share to make money through advertising, like we do in other places. There's a very successful model used in China with distributors who comb the countryside and are very effective in selling things. And we expect to be working with some of those in the future.  

OPERATOR: Richard Keiser, Bernstein.  

RICHARD KEISER, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN: I was hoping you could just speak a little bit about your efforts in the mobile space given that we're probably going to have some pretty advanced handsets coming out in the US in the second half of this year. Your current capabilities with SMS seemed, I guess, pretty early in development.  

LARRY PAGE: I think there's tremendous promise in all sorts of mobile services, and we're getting very significant usage now on many of our mobile services. I couldn't be more excited about the things that are going to happen in the pretty short term, next couple of months, around mobile services. And access to things like maps and other products we have I think are going to be very significant.  

OPERATOR: Safa Rashtchy, Piper Jaffray.  

SAFA RASHTCHY, ANALYST, PIPER JAFFRAY: Congratulations on a great quarter. I wondered if you could give us some color on what drove tremendous growth that you had this quarter. I know that you're not terribly keen to break the components into volume versus pricing, but just looking at the broad picture obviously volume with the seasonality of Q2 couldn't have been very high. It appears that you have had tremendous gain in monetization. Could you give us some color on where that's coming and to what degree we can assume this continued increase in monetization of searches that you're getting?  

GEORGE REYES: So I think overall we're delighted having posted 10% revenue growth. And it was sort of a slow build throughout the quarter. So there was really nothing unique to generating that level of growth. So we're feeling really good given what a typical Q2 looks like. But beyond that I'm not sure I can really give you more color.  

OPERATOR: Mark Rowen, Prudential.  

MARK ROWEN, ANALYST, PRUDENTIAL: I wanted to follow-up on the question on local search. First of all, can you give us a sense of what percentage of the searches on your own web sites are local in nature? And second, when I look at your local search, I see most of the sponsored links are national advertisers, guides and things like that. And I assume that ultimately the goal is to get the local businesses to take those sponsored spaces. Can you talk about how difficult you think that's going to be, and what kind of timeframe you would look at, and what the challenges would be to getting those small businesses to come to you?  

SERGEY BRIN: I think it's difficult, but it's very, very doable. In particular, I would say today we get -- I don't know the exact percentage breakdown offhand. I don't recall the exact reports. But there's a large percentage of local related searches that are happening on our main site in addition to those that happen on local.google.com or maps.google.com.  

In terms of the advertisers on those sites, we do have a number of national advertisers. And yes, we would hope to extend that with local advertisers. But even on the national advertisers we're making progress to direct people to their local sites when there's an appropriate Wal-Mart nearby or Costco nearby or what not.  

I would also say just on the traffic part I think we will gradually have more and more sophisticated technology so that more and more of the searches on our main web site will either automatically or by user knowledge gravitate towards our local properties.  

OPERATOR: Jeetil Patel, Deutsche Bank Securities.  

JEETIL PATEL, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK SECURITIES: You've got quite a few different animated products in the labs area, including personalization. You've actually made available some of these from an API standpoint or availability kind of work with some of the applications or products that you created. I guess do you envision longer-term that the personalization capabilities ultimately gets also syndicated out such that My Google interface can actually travel with me as I travel across the Web? Is that something that could actually get into syndication like you've done with search?  

LARRY PAGE: That's a great question. Yes, I would expect that all of our services -- we're always very open to providing them to other companies. Personalization is very important for that to actually work over all the information that you use on the web. So I think that's definitely a good idea, and I'm sure you'll see things like that from us over time.  

OPERATOR: Evan Rothschild, Founders Asset Management.  

EVAN ROTHSCHILD: I was wondering if you could explain further the seasonality you were talking about in the third quarter. Are you referring more to revenues or profits? And what kind of -- is it on a sequential growth or a year-over-year growth that we're talking about?  

GEORGE REYES: So the answer is, as I suggested in my remarks, Q2 and Q3 are difficult quarters with Q3 being the more difficult of them. And that's always been the case. I guess what I was trying to suggest earlier on is that the year-ago Q3 was masked because there was a lot of activity around our IPO, as an example. But fundamentally, between Q2 and Q3 they're both weak quarters. Q3 tends to be the one that is more exacerbated, especially in our case where Europe is really delivering a very high level of contribution to the business. And you all can appreciate sort of the seasonality that goes on in Europe in the month of August, as an example. So that's what I was trying to convey in my remarks.  

OPERATOR: Lauren Fine, Merrill Lynch.  

LAUREN FINE: I am just wondering if you could give us a sense of the contribution sequentially that AOL Europe might have made on the network revenues.  

ERIC SCHMIDT: We're just not going to get into that level of detail, and we really haven't.  

OPERATOR: Youssef Squali, Jefferies & Co.  

YOUSSEF SQUALI, ANALYST, JEFFERIES & CO.: I guess I have a question for Sergey again. On slight targeting, can you talk a little bit about what needs -- what do you guys need to see before you take that product out of beta and take it from dozens of advertisers to hundreds or thousands? Is TAC similar to that of AdSense? And have you started supporting rich media?  

LARRY PAGE: We have -- first of all, that's a long question. We started to support richer media types than we have in the past. And for example, some degree of animation in our image ads. I think we're going to be -- unlike sort of the end-user products which tend to stay in beta for a long period of time, these products which both generate revenue and/or financial transactions going on, we tend to ramp quite quickly. And I would expect it to be available very, very soon to all advertisers.  

Also, on traffic acquisition costs, I don't think our arrangements with the sites that we partner with are going to be different in nature. I don't have a specific breakdown of exactly what those are like though. But I would expect it to be quite similar.  

OPERATOR: Ben Schachter, UBS.  

BEN SCHACHTER, ANALYST, UBS: I'm curious to know how consumer acceptance and usage patterns compare to your original expectations regarding maps and Google Earth. And also, following up on the RSS question from earlier, when you introduced the personalized homepage back a couple of months ago at that factory tour, I believe Marissa or someone at the Company indicated that an update would happen within one to two months including full RSS support. I was just wondering if you could update us on that.  

LARRY PAGE: I think definitely maps and Google Earth have far exceeded our expectations for popularity. And I love the products, but it seems that everybody else really loves them too.  

In terms of the RSS support, I'm not really familiar with the details of that.  

OPERATOR: Marianne Wolk, Susquehanna.  

MARIANNE WOLK, ANALYST, SUSQUEHANNA: I was just wondering if you could talk to us about some of your direct selling efforts. We had heard that you were speaking more directly to the Fortune 500 now. I was wondering how that's playing out in terms of driving more usage of Google by the Fortune 500 and how they're looking at adopting your display network.  

ERIC SCHMIDT: We've done exactly that. And at the end of June we managed to in addition to having obviously very, very good results in our US operation, we also did a reorganization of our direct selling organization to focus completely vertically. So the US direct sales is now organized in vertical groups, each of which has its own sales executives, directors and so forth. And they have account plans and they have marketing plans on a per (indiscernible) grouping, automotive or pharmaceutical or whatever.  

The other thing that we've done is that the sight targeting products, essentially the ones that are new, need to be explained even to existing customers to be sold. So there's been a significant training and marketing program in the US field.  

The largest customers -- the Fortune, if you will, 500, 1000 kind of customers in the US -- typically have very common buying patterns. They typically have a single group that buys all forms of media. And we can now call on them with more than a single product offering.  

So I would prefer not to characterize the revenue opportunity there except to say it's quite large. The reason we did the reorganization is so that we could take advantage of the obvious suitability of our advertising products, both the traditional ones, the network ones and now the site targeting products, to provide them with essentially advertisers and ultimately customers.  

We're doing a number of other things involving specialized integration with people's content web sites and other ways in which we become deeper partners inside those firms which you will see announced over the next year.  

OPERATOR: Jim Friedland, SG Cowen.  

JIM FRIEDLAND, ANALYST, SG COWEN: All my questions have been answered.  

OPERATOR: Christina Quarles, Thomas Weisel Partners.  

CHRISTINA QUARLES, ANALYST, THOMAS WEISEL PARTNERS: One thing that we noted just with the network growing slower than the Google owned property was that -- or one comment we had heard from SEMs was that a lot of advertisers are choosing to opt off the network because of lower conversion rates. I was wondering if you could put that in context relative to query growth at Google versus your network and if that has any veracity with it at all.  

And then also if you could touch on Google Wallet. I think, Eric, you made a statement as to what it won't be in terms of store value person to person, but if you could maybe extrapolate on that.  

ERIC SCHMIDT: I would encourage you not to extrapolate from anecdotal evidence. In fact, the revenue growth, the advertising growth in the Google network has not been materially negative effectively by opting out. In fact, it's the reverse. You can see we had quarter-over-quarter, which is not necessarily a trend, even stronger growth in the Google network, as was discussed earlier. So we don't see the data that you mentioned in your premise of your question, although there may be an isolated incident where that's true.  

With respect to payments, there was confusion in the market and people were writing all sorts of articles speculating on our entering the market into person to person stored value systems. And that market is extremely well served by PayPal and some others, and we don't see a need to enter that market at this time.  

We are exploring additional ways in which we can handle and essentially extend our advertising network to make merchants even happier; literally make them even more powerful, even better integrated. And that is the direction. We would prefer not to preannounce those products, and so simply what we will say right now is that we're not going to go into the person to person stored value business, simply because that market is already well served, and it's not needed in order to extend the power of our advertising network, which is doing so well right now.  

OPERATOR: Troy Mastin, William Blair & Co.  

TROY MASTIN, ANALYST, WILLIAM BLAIR & CO.: I wonder if you could try to give some insight to us as to how far along the continuum, so to speak, you are in your monetization efforts. So are we in the seventh inning maybe, to use a baseball euphemism?  

LARRY PAGE: I think we're still in the first inning, if that. And basically we spend a lot of time here having very interesting meetings about more monetization. A tremendous amount of engineering work that goes on and analysis of what's happening. And every day there are new and significant ideas to improve the user experience, the monetization that advertisers get and the efficiency of how all that stuff works together. So I couldn't be more excited about the opportunities there to improve the products in ways that help users and make more money for everybody involved.  

OPERATOR: Douglas Anmuth, Lehman Brothers.  

DOUGLAS ANMUTH, ANALYST, LEHMAN BROTHERS: I just had a couple of questions about the hiring process that you were talking about earlier, George. It looks like you hired about 700 people this quarter on a net basis. I'm wondering, in the past you have said you'd had trouble hiring as many people as you would like, is that still the case? And then you mentioned the seasonality, and for the last couple of years we've seen net hiring peaking in 2Q. Is it reasonable to expect that trend to continue going forward?  

GEORGE REYES: Yes. I think what we did this quarter is we made an explicit decision that we wanted to accelerate hiring, and that's really why you see the increase in headcount. And that's why I made that comment about we're going to sort of unlink the revenue cycle from the cost cycle to some substantial degree because we're in the process of building out what we think is a company that can drive lots and lots of revenue going forward. So these were all very explicit decisions.  

ERIC SCHMIDT: So, I'd like to thank everybody for listening, participating; thank George, Larry, Sergey for this.  

We're obviously very proud of our results. The business is very good here at Google. And I think, again in reflecting on it and thinking about it, it's really because we have figured out ways to stay focused on end users and innovation. We're sticking to the focus that we talked about in the original founders letter around getting all the world's information online. And we have been able, even with the growth and so forth, to be able to track the very best and brightest around the world, to stay very focused on that mission. And we're just beginning on making that happen.  

So again, thank you very, very much for your time, and we will talk to you next quarter. Thanks.  

[CCBN reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES CCBN ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. ]  

   CO
goog : Google Inc.
   IN
i8395464 : Internet Search Engines | iint : Internet/Online Services
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | gussec : Securities and Exchange Commission | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | ginda : Independent Agencies/Regulatory Bodies | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
FDCH e-Media, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020050804e17l002pk
  


 HD
 Q1  2005 Google Earnings Conference Call - Final  
   WC
9,549 words
   PD
21 April 2005
   SN
FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.    

   LP
OPERATOR: Welcome to the Google Inc. first-quarter 2005 earnings conference call. Today's call is being recorded and for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the conference over to the Director of Business Optimization, Ms. Liz Bier (ph).  

LIZ BIER, DIR. OF BUSINESS OPTIMIZATION, GOOGLE: Good afternoon. Welcome to our first-quarter earnings call. On the call today are Eric Schmidt, Chief Executive Officer; George Reyes, Chief Financial Officer; Larry Page, founder and President of Products; and Sergey Brin, founder and President of Technology. This call is being webcast from the Investor Relations portion of our website. Additionally our press release, issued a few minutes ago, is now posted on our site. A replay of the call will be available beginning in a few hours.  

   TD
Some of the comments we will make today are forward-looking including statements regarding our operational performance and execution over the long-term; the prospects for growth in online advertising and our leadership position in this industry; our continuing ability to grow and innovate; the focus of our development efforts and the future implementation of recently announced products; our expected traffic growth; the growth patterns of our AdSense network and our Google websites; the performance of our partners; our continued focus on international operations; our expected investments in R&D; our future operating margins; our anticipated levels of stock based compensation charges; our future provision for income taxes and effective tax rate; the anticipated impact of the Ask Geeves acquisition; and anticipated future effects from click fraud.  

These statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated by these forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include a variety of factors, some of which are beyond Google's control. These forward-looking statements speak as of today and you should not rely on them as representing Google's views in the future. We undertake no obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date they were made.  

Please refer to our recent SEC filings including our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004 for a more detailed description of the risk factors that may affect our results. Copies of these documents may be obtained from the SEC or by visiting the Investor Relations portion of our website.  

Also, please note that certain financial measures we use on this call, such as free cash flow and adjusted EBITDA, are generally expressed on a non-GAAP basis and therefore have been adjusted to exclude certain items such as charges in connection with stock based compensation and in process R&D. A presentation of the most directly comparable GAAP financial information for the quarter ended March 31, 2005 and the reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP financial measures are included either in the substance of this conference call or in the financial statements accompanying today's earnings release which are available on our Investor Relations site. And with that I would like to turn the call over to Eric.  

ERIC SCHMIDT, CEO, GOOGLE: I'd like to thank everybody for joining us once again for our first-quarter 2005 conference call. I'm going to begin with a few introductory comments, then George will go over our financial results in more detail. After George goes through the numbers Larry and Sergey will offer their regular quarterly commentary.  

We're obviously very happy with our first-quarter results. As you know by now from seeing the release, we again had a record quarter in revenue, but even more importantly earnings. I'm particularly proud of our sound execution throughout this period of very, very rapid growth. Again, this quarter Google innovated, grew and delivered strong financial results while concurrently strengthening our relationships with both our advertisers and our users.  

Now of course I want to be very clear and remind you that this may not always be the case. Our focus remains very, very clearly and steadfastly on the long-term growth. And in the meantime once again we have a quarterly earnings report about which we, and we hope you, are very, very pleased. We are going to continue our long-standing policy of not providing forward guidance, so no change there. And I would also encourage you not to rely on any estimated metric that you hear to try to formulate how our business works. As we've discussed before, no single estimate of metric is a very good precise predictor of how we're doing as to the way our ad system actually performance.  

So with that, George, now I'll turn it over to you to discuss results from last quarter.  

GEORGE REYES, CFO, GOOGLE: Thank you, Eric. Before diving in let me provide you with a quick refresher on the presentation of our financial statements. As always when we discuss revenue we are referring to gross revenue or the revenue we generate prior to any revenue share payments that we pay to our partners. As all of you know, those payments are known as TAC or traffic acquisition costs. While our financial statements are prepared on a GAAP basis and report gross revenue, some of you discuss our revenue on a net basis defined as gross revenue less TAC. For those of you that choose to track our results in this way, net revenue can easily be derived by subtracting traffic acquisition costs provided in our earnings release and later in this discussion from our gross revenue.  

Having said all that, let's dive into our Q1 results. 2005 is off to a very healthy start. Coming off a seasonally very strong Q4 we achieved meaningful revenue growth and continued strong year-over-year progress. Revenue in Q1 nearly doubled to $1.26 billion from 652 million in last year's first quarter, representing year-over-year growth for the quarter of 93%. On a sequential basis our first-quarter revenue increased 22% over the quarter ended 12/31 of 2004, a rate with which we are very pleased given advertising industry seasonality and our exceptionally strong Q4 growth.  

Operating income for the first quarter was 443 million, this compares to 155 million in Q1 of 2004, an annual increase of 185%. On a sequential basis our operating income increased 46% from 303 million in Q4 of 2004. Please note that like previous quarters, our reported operating income for this quarter includes a non-cash charge related to stock based compensation. This quarter the charge was 49 million as compared to 76 million in Q1 of 2004 and 60 million in the fourth quarter of 2004.  

Net income for the first quarter was 369 million as compared to 64 million for last year's first quarter, an annual increase of 477%. Diluted net income per share for the first quarter was $1.29 on 287 million diluted shares outstanding compared to $0.24 in the first quarter of 2004 on 264 million shares outstanding and $0.71 for the fourth quarter of 2004 on 286 million shares outstanding.  

Net cash provided by operating activities was 530 million for Q1, an increase of 44% over net cash provided by operating activities of 368 million for Q4 of 2004. Adjusted EBITDA -- and by adjusted EBITDA we mean net income before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization and the non-cash stock based compensation charge and in process R&D -- increased by approximately 123 million or 29% to 548 million or roughly 44% of revenue in Q1, up from 425 million or 41% of revenue in Q4 of 2004. Capital expenditures for the first quarter totaled 142 million compared to 59 million during last year's fourth quarter.  

Let's now dive deep into the details of the quarter. As we have discussed in the past, Q4 and Q1 are the strongest for the advertising industry while Q2 in Q3 traditionally demonstrate significantly lower rates of sequential growth. At this point we see no reason why we wouldn't track that industry growth pattern. That said, for our first quarter we are particularly pleased with our sequential growth rate of 22% given that it follows a robust 28% rate of increase between Q3 and Q4 of 2004. We attribute the strength to increase traffic and our ability to monetize that traffic.  

Our own Google sites again grew faster than the Google network this quarter, showing growth of 24% as compared to 19% growth for the network on a sequential basis. Revenue from our own sites increased to 657 million in Q1 from 530 million in Q4 and represented 52% of total revenue this quarter as compared to 51% in Q4. Revenue from the Google network, the third party sites that display ads provided by Google, increased to 584 million in Q1 from 490 million in Q4. The network represented 40% of total revenue compared to 48% last quarter. We attribute this healthy growth to organic traffic growth, continuing expansion of our AdSense for content network, and a full quarter of our partnership with AOL Europe, slightly offset by advertising seasonality.  

While on the topic of the network I would like to digress for just a moment to comment on the proposed acquisition of our partner, Ask Geeves by Interactive Corporation. Our contract with Geeves runs through 2007 and will continue through this change in control. We wish our partner well with this very exciting transition.  

As we have previously discussed, we are very focused on the non U.S. portions of our business that are in front of us. International operations contributed 39% of total revenue in the first quarter as compared to 35% in the fourth quarter. We are pleased that our efforts overseas are paying off handsomely. In addition to the organic momentum we attribute a portion of this international growth to a full quarter of the online relationship with AOL Europe. We continue to call out international operations as an area of significant focus for us this year.  

Let's now shift gears and talk about our cost structure. Let's start with cost of revenues. At Google cost of revenue is comprised mainly of traffic acquisition costs, or TAC, expenses associated with the operation of our data centers, credit card processing charges as well as other transaction fees, and amortized expenses associated with purchased and licensed technologies. In the first quarter these costs rose to 545 million or 43% of revenue from 454 million or 44% of revenue in the previous quarter.  

TAC, or the revenue we share with our partners, increased to 462 million in Q1 from 378 million in Q4 of 2004. TAC reflects the aggregate portion of our revenue that we share with our partners. Some of these costs reflect revenue share agreements while other parts reflect certain guaranteed payments that we have discussed previously. As we mentioned last quarter, TAC as a percentage of revenue was particularly low in Q4 primarily as a result of our very strong revenue growth during that quarter. As a reminder, our TAC percentage will fluctuate from quarter-to-quarter for many reasons including the performance of our partners and the arrangements we have with them.  

Shifting now to operating expenses, in Q1 of 2005 R&D spending fell to 79 million from 87 million in Q4 or roughly 6.3% of revenue as opposed to 8.5% of revenue last quarter. Please recall that in Q4 R&D spending increased by $10 million as a result of a one time in process R&D charge associated with an acquisition we made during the period. As we have said many times, great engineering is the foundation on which we have built Google so you should fully expect to see an increase in the growth rate of this expensed line in the coming quarters.  

Sales and marketing declined as a percentage of revenue sequentially to 6.6% in Q1 from 7.4% last year while increasing in absolute dollars to 83 million from $76 million. G&A increased sequentially to 57 million in Q1 from 52 million in Q4 of 2004, an increase of 10%. On a percentage of revenue basis G&A decreased to 4.6% of revenue. The absolute growth reflects the continued build out of the systems, processes, personnel and infrastructure required to operate a company on our scale.  

Shifting gears and talking about stock based compensation, stock based comp continues to trend downward to 49 million this quarter from 60 million in Q4 of 2004. The recognition of stock based compensation related to stock awards issued up until now will continue to trend downward. However, our stock based compensation will experience upward pressure as a result of grants of restricted stock units or what we call GSUs, Google stock units. Although no GSUs were granted in the first quarter of 2005, we expect to grant significantly more GSUs to our new and existing employees over the remainder of 2005 than the 12 million worth we granted in 2004. The expense related to these GSUs will be recognized over a four year vesting and will reduce our reported operating profit.  

Moving to operating margin, our operating margin on a GAAP basis was 35.2%, up from a reported operating margin of 29.4% last quarter. This improvement was primarily the result of declining expenses as a percentage of sales in each line item of our operating expenses other than TAC. In general this improvement could be characterized as being the result of rapid revenue growth. As always we reiterate our previously issued caution that over time and for a variety of reasons operating margins may decline.  

Now onto one of our favorite subjects, income taxes. So here's a surprise -- once again our income tax discussion merits some explanation. In the first quarter of 2005 several items had a material benefit on either the provision for income taxes reported on the P&L, our income taxes receivable or both. Our effective tax rate of 19% in the first quarter was significantly lower than the 34% effective tax rate realized in the fourth quarter of 2004 for two reasons.  

The first reason for a lower tax rate is attributable to a greater portion of our earnings in 2005 being recognized by our Irish subsidiary. These earnings are taxed at a substantially lower statutory rate than the combined effect of our U.S. federal and state income tax rates. The second reason is the result of having realized an increase to our income taxes receivable of $152 million related to both ISO's and nonqualified stock option exercises. The disqualifying disposition benefit from the ISO's resulted in a reduction to our provision for income taxes of $49 million. Without this reduction our non-GAAP effective tax rate would have been 30%.  

Although employee stock option activity may result in increases to our income taxes receivable in the future, we do not expect to realize further meaningful reductions to our provision for income taxes as a result of any subsequent disqualify dispositions. We expect our effective tax rate to be in the 30% range for the full year of 2005 and we believe we should be able to maintain or possibly reduce this rate over the long-term. However, if future earnings recognized by our Irish subsidiary are not as proportionately great as we expect our effective tax rate will be higher than our expectations.  

Moving on to net income -- as a result of all of these pieces, in the first quarter we generated net income of 369 million or 29.4% of revenue. This is up from 204 million or 19.8% of revenue reported last quarter. A year ago in the first quarter we achieved a net margin of 9.8%.  

And lastly, let's discuss liquidity. Net cash provided by operating activities for the quarter ended March 31st totaled 530 million as compared to 368 million for Q4 of 2004, an increase of 44%. In the first quarter of 2004 we generated $208 million in cash flow from operations. Adjusted EBITDA, and again we mean EBITDA before non-cash charges like stock based compensation and in process R&D, is another alternative measure of liquidity to GAAP net cash provided by operating activities. Adjusted EBITDA increased by approximately 123 million or 29% to 548 million or 44% of revenue in Q1 from 425 million or 41% of revenue in Q4 of last year. With that, I'd like to turn it over to Larry.  

LARRY PAGE, CO-FOUNDER, PRESIDENT OF PRODUCTS, GOOGLE: Thank you, George. We were very busy this quarter launching dozens of new products and features. We always focus on the needs of users. One example of that this quarter is the customization of Google News. In March we enhanced this product by making it possible for users to customize it to fit their needs. Users can now choose the sections, customize sections and change the number of headlines among other ways to customize.  

We also improved our popular desktop search product, taking it out of beta and adding features including search over PDFs and the meta (ph) information stored with music, image and video files. It now supports Firefox and Netscape browsers, Thunderbird and Netscape e-mail clients and comes in nine languages. We also have languages to gmail, we're up to 13. We introduced rich text formatting to gmail which enables users to change fonts, use colors, highlight and use bullets. Also we just announced an increase in storage. All gmail users now have at least 2 GB of storage and our plan is to continue growing that capacity for users to keep up with their growing needs.  

In February we released a new beta version of the Google toolbar, containing our work to enhance users' experience on the Web. Google also entered into the video space announcing the extension of our search capability to new service that enables users to search the contents of television programs from leading TV content providers. These include PBS, the NBA, Fox News and C-SPAN among a growing list of others. What we've done for the Web Google aims to do for television.  

Earlier this month we also started an experimental service allowing users to upload video to Google with the aim of allowing them to distribute and monetize their video content. In the mobile area we released two new local services that enable people on the go quickly -- to quickly and easily connect to the information they want from their mobile phone or wireless device. From local business listings to interactive street maps users can now access Google local information via a mobile Web browser and driving directions using Google SMS.  

We've had many product developments and offerings related to maps, too. We introduced Google maps in February enabling users to get directions and navigate maps with an amazing user experience. We later integrated that with our Google local products and then most recently with Keyhole, giving maps users easy and intuitive access to satellite imagery just by clicking the satellite link.  

In March Google announced the Google Local Business Center. This free tool enables businesses to easily add or update their listings that appear in Google Local. The Google Local Business Center enables them to more effectively reach consumers searching on Google Local with accurate, useful and up-to-date information. By enabling these businesses to easily add or edit information whenever they like their content is always current.  

In the enterprise area we launched the Google Mini, a search appliance that enables small to medium businesses to search and access their information using Google Search. This integrated hardware/software product indexes all content within a company's Intranet or public website. Users can search their contents with the same simplicity and relevant results as they can on Google.  

Earlier this monthly reduced the price and increased the capacity for our enterprise search appliance products making them even more valuable to businesses. The price for the Google Mini is $2995 and the entry-level Google search appliance is $30,000. At the same time we introduced all of these new products and features we remained the most focused on our core technology, Search. Improving freshness, relevance and indexing more and more Web pages. In addition to these improvements to core efforts we increased or image search index to over 1.1 billion images. Sergey, over to you.  

SERGEY BRIN, CO-FOUNDER, PRESIDENT OF TECHNOLOGY, GOOGLE: For my part, I'd like to cover a few developments in our ads programs and changes in our compensation programs. Larry outlined some of the exciting developments in our consumer facing products. I'd like to share some of the things we've done to improve our advertising programs. One move we made was to help publishers by allowing them to use electronic funds transfers for AdSense publishers so that they can receive payments faster and eliminate foreign currency banking charges in 15 countries. We also increased to 43 the number countries we accept checks in local currencies.  

On January 21st we announced the AdWords API. It's a free Google AdWords beta feature that enables developers to create computer programs that interact directly with the AdWords system. It is designed for developers representing text savvy advertisers and the ecosystem of third parties which includes search engine marketers, agencies and other online marketing professionals who manage multiple client accounts or large campaigns. Examples of the types of programs that can be built with the AdWords API include campaign management and reporting and traffic estimation.  

On March 28th we announced our intention to acquire a company called Urchin, a Web analytics company. With Urchin's technologies we want to provide Website owners and marketers with the information they need to optimize their user's experience and help them generate a higher return on investment from their advertising spending.  

This past quarter we made a change in our affiliate policy aimed at enhancing the user's experience and improving ads quality. What this means is that we no longer show multiple ads within the same visible URL for a single search query. We've already seen the benefits of making this change; it has resulted in an increased number of choices for users.  

Before I turn the call back to Eric, I want to share with you some changes we've made in our compensation programs at Google. In the last earnings call I outlined our new Founders Award program. This program offers recognition and financial awards for major innovations and value creation within the Company. The awards are given in restricted stock units, which we call Google stock units, vesting over four years.  

We have made another recent change involving Google stock units. Stock options remain a very important component of our reward programs since they offer very meaningful opportunities for Googlists to share in the Company's growth. However, potential stock price volatility may result in disproportionate rewards that are unrelated to individual performance or contributions.  

Under our new program newly hired employees will receive a smaller number of traditional stock options and an additional component of Google stock units which convert to shares of Google stock when they vest. The number that vest will reflect both the Googler's individual performance and his or her option price -- strike price relative to other employees who started at about the same time. We believe that this approach promises two important goals -- it reduces pay distortions created by the potential of stock price fluctuations either positive or negative and it provides a better incentive by more directly time rewards to individual performance. Eric, over to you.  

ERIC SCHMIDT: Thanks very much, Sergey. Before we open up this whole thing for questions I want to close with a couple of thoughts about our business. We're inspired by the challenge of solving large problems that affect large numbers of people here at Google and we're all about finding ways to solve new problems that have not been addressed yet. We don't look for ways to refine existing solutions; our mission is much bigger and more experimental than that. We encourage our engineers who are widely know 20% time, which I know everybody has heard about already, to consider ambitious projects in areas where others are not exploring.  

Being an innovator at Google does not been working on a better mouse trap, it means innovators at Google are genuine pioneers and scientists relentlessly seeking out and encroaching on big, big problems that matter to lots of people. Now working on big problems means focusing on the long-term. Now sometimes a long-term benefit will come from several smaller efforts and investments over time. But there will also be instances where in order to address the really big problems that motivate our Company, we'll make moves that are single large strokes in the name of long-term goals.  

Whether it is in these combinations of smaller moves or larger single efforts, we will continue to innovate, to build, to experiment and to listen to our users and advertisers. I want to thank all of you once again who are following our progress -- investors, users, partners, advertisers -- our success so far has very much been the result of all of you working with us. So with that, Larry and Sergey and George and I would like to take your questions.  

Let me just remind everybody that we'd like to do questions one at a time and if there's time, after everyone has had a first chance, we'll come back for more follow-up questions. So with that, operator, are you able to get the Q&A started?  

OPERATOR: (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS) Robert Peck, Bear Stearns.  

ROBERT PECK, ANALYST, BEAR STEARNS: Congratulations, absolutely a great quarter. I guess for my one question what I wanted to focus on was could you give us any sort of color and clarity around the pricing trends you've seen both broken out either via AdSense or AdWords? And also a little more color around the volume that you've seen and where you're seeing the volume pick up specifically.  

ERIC SCHMIDT: We continue to see broad growth across the U.S. and international markets. I said last time and I continue to believe that we're just at the beginning of the scale of this -- the penetration of this kind of technology. So we're not seeing saturation in key markets; in fact, there seems to be plenty of upside. We have been able to add many, many more advertisers in the last quarter and we benefit from that, our international components and our local components. Said there's nothing to call out that's anomalous aside from good news from the standpoint of stronger aggregate revenue growth, better advertising network partnerships and a larger number of satisfied advertisers.  

OPERATOR: Lauren Fine, Merrill Lynch.  

LAUREN FINE, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: I'm just wondering I guess in that same vein, at your analyst day you had talked about your penetration of the Fortune 1000. I think you at that time were up to 227 and I'm wondering if you're continuing to see the kind of progress there that you'd like to see.  

ERIC SCHMIDT: We are. We are in the process of making changes in our direct sales force to even more fully cover the very large Fortune 1000. It's become clear that that is a vastly under penetrated space. These companies spend many, many, many millions on advertising and we'll typically be working with one or two divisions as opposed to the whole corporation. Those changes are underway during the year and we think that that will give us much, much better coverage across the entire enterprise.  

We've also made other product changes that are very significant. Historically it was difficult to do single billing for all the different divisions and the kinds of things that larger customers care a lot about. So we have now have both an engagement sales plan as well as the underlying technology and billing strategies that will allow people to really see the benefit of this model.  

We're also beginning to see people who are interested in using the Google advertising network for more of a branding component in what they do, although by no means does this replace their traditional branding budgets. So they're beginning to see the benefit of working with us to make sure that their name and their products are broadly known throughout the world.  

OPERATOR: Emran Khan, J.P. Morgan.  

EMRAN KHAN, ANALYST, J.P. MORGAN: Your international revenue growth seems like it accelerated during the quarter; it was up like it seems 36% sequentially compared to roughly 30% last quarter. So George, you said that you signed AOL Int'l. I was wondering if you could give us a sense, what's the real organic growth and can you comment on the coverage in the international market compared to U.S.? Thanks.  

GEORGE REYES: I think AOL is a strong partner and this is really seeing through their first quarter of them under our belt. It was a very broadly spread level of growth throughout Europe and it's something that we've been working on very hard in cultivating for the better part of a year or more than that. So I think it's really the fruits of all that labor that are starting to pay off along with new leadership in Europe.  

ERIC SCHMIDT: Let me add that we're going to be investing a lot of our management time and investment in taking care of the opportunity in Europe. It's clear that Internet adoption rates are accelerating. So even though Europe, in terms of GDP performance, is not growing terribly quickly, Internet adoption rate is very, very fast by our measures and metrics right now. And we benefit to the degree because of the investments that we've made there. So we're likely to see very, very strong international European performance for the foreseeable future and we're excited about that.  

OPERATOR: Youssef Squali, Jefferies.  

YOUSSEF SQUALI, ANALYST, JEFFERIES & CO.: Your TAC this quarter went up to 79.1%, that is up from 76.7. Is that all related to AOL or is that also related to other deals? I'm assuming primarily internationally where TAC there may be a little higher.  

GEORGE REYES: This is George and I'll take a shot at that. There is a couple of things that you have to keep in mind. First of all, as we suggested last quarter TAC was exceptionally low because of how robust the revenue growth was in Q4. That is point one. Point two, as we also said, one of the drivers of that in Q4 of last year was that we happened to benefit from some partners with lower rev shares. Lastly, the point I would make is that TAC will fluctuate and it in fact has over time. Just to give you some random data points here, TAC in Q1 of '04 was 81%, it then dropped to 77% and now it is clicked back up to 79%. To think that TAC is going to be on a steady path of decline is not a good assumption. It will fluctuate.  

OPERATOR: Mike Gallant, CIBC World Markets.  

MIKE GALLANT, ANALYST, CIBC WORLD MARKETS: I was wondering if you could talk about some of the new product initiatives that you spoke of about like Google News and some of the other potential revenue generators like Froogle. Are those businesses generating significant amounts of revenue yet? If not, when do you think those businesses really start to ramp? How should we think about those kinds of revenue opportunities on those products? Thanks.  

LARRY PAGE: I think -- we actually don't think about it exactly that way. And the reason why it's a bit more complicated for us is that many of the products that I mentioned are very well integrated into Google's main search product. For example, when you search for a product and you've got a listing from Froogle, maybe a very large percentage or the majority of people actually get those listings by searching directly on Google and getting a listing through Froogle that's shown on Google at the top using what we call one box.  

So I think -- when we think about these products we think about them as improving our core product for our users and also we look at those products as generating a lot of distribution for those products through our core search. And from those metrics I think we're doing very, very well both on improving the user experience and on improving our ability to monetize and get the right information to consumers.  

OPERATOR: Troy Mastin, William Blair.  

TROY MASTIN, ANALYST, WILLIAM BLAIR: I was hoping you could give us an update on any thoughts you might have with regards to taking your advertising to more of a graphical level or brand advertising level? Thanks.  

ERIC SCHMIDT: We have a number of efforts going on along those lines to get our advertising to be more sort of graphical and so on. I think you'll see us roll those out in much greater force over our content network than through our network of sites that we have in order to give basically consumers a better experience, provide some targeting for that information which is currently -- there's a pretty minimal amount of targeting, and also to create a bigger market for those kinds of advertising. I'm very excited about the opportunities.  

OPERATOR: Heath Terry, CSFB.  

HEATH TERRY, ANALYST, CSFB: I was wondering if you could give us an idea -- we hear a lot about the slow summer period in the Internet space and if we look back at Q2 of 2004 for you we saw 13% growth there. Can you give us an idea to what degree that there were things there that offset the normal seasonality just to kind of give us a way to look at this current quarter and what we should expect over the summer realizing -- not asking for guidance here.  

ERIC SCHMIDT: Last summer we introduced a new ad service pretty much at the beginning of Q3 and there's no question that our Q3 growth, which as I remember was really quite strong historically, was positively affected by the introduction of that new product. I don't know if we will have a product of that magnitude over the summer that would help, so it may not be directly comparable when you go back and you look at Q2 and Q3 of last year.  

We do know that because in the Internet the summer is lower from a traffic perspective it does affect our model. It's difficult for us to even internally estimate that because we are constantly making product improvements and we roll them out as soon as they're ready and those are a net positive impact on revenue. So although you have somewhat slower traffic growth, you also have the -- from the standpoint of a modeling perspective, unpredictable positive impact of these product introductions.  

OPERATOR: Scott Kessler, Standard & Poor's Equity Research.  

SCOTT KESSLER, ANALYST, STANDARD & POOR'S EQUITY RESEARCH: Could you talk a little bit about what contributed to the increase -- the significant increase in capital expenditures for the quarter? Thanks a lot.  

ERIC SCHMIDT: We continue to invest in our -- the technology that is required to provide services at the scale we operate at. And one of our core values here is to build differentiated and very, very sophisticated hardware platforms. And I think that's been widely discussed. So we continue to invest at a level that's consistent with what's needed to really deploy these new services. George, do you want to add some of the details here?  

GEORGE REYES: Sure. I guess what I would just remind you of is that in Q4 of last year we only spent $59 million, so really we didn't -- whether it's issues on shortages of components or whatever it is -- we didn't really get our fill in Q4 of last year. And the second thing, as I'm sure most of you have read the K, really we're looking to do substantially more this year than we did last year and I think the number that's in the K is about half a billion dollars in CapEx. So hopefully that helps better calibrate you on that. And unlike last year, in that 142 there are some facilities additions so it's not just all raw computing power, though most of it is.  

OPERATOR: Ben Schachter, UBS.  

BEN SCHACHTER, ANALYST, UBS: Congratulations on a great quarter. I know you guys have said you're not building a Google Web browser, but are you working on something that will allow users to access Web information without using Explorer or Firefox? In other words, will I be able to get to Google.com content on my PC using Google software?  

ERIC SCHMIDT: To some degree you can already with the Desktop Search product that we are shipping. The goal of the Company is to build applications that work and solve very large end-user problems. I'd rather not have us speculating on the specifics. They're products that we've not announced, not built, not shipped yet. So far you can see the really amazing things that are possible inside of the browser architecture if you look at maps which is a technological breakthrough -- we're very proud of.  

OPERATOR: Marianne Wolk, Susquehanna.  

MARIANNE WOLK, ANALYST, SUSQUEHANNA: I had a quick question about monetization. I was wondering if you could compare U.S. monetization to the UK and then elsewhere and give us a sense of whether they're all about the same or whether the UK and outside of the UK and Europe are just starting to catch up with the U.S.? How much more room is there from that perspective? And then a second question on AdSense for content, did that grow sequentially? It was unclear.  

GEORGE REYES: So the answer is it did grow sequentially and it's a very solid business that delivers a lot of revenue and earnings to us. On the international question, each of the countries is at their appropriate sort of scale and state, and one metric that you could use is just look at Internet penetration. And depending on where they are on the technology adoption curve and the advertising network curve, their RPMs tend to increase over time. There is literally the revenue that we can get from the kind of services that we provide.  

But they're very much country, culture and access dependent countries that have more broadband; we do better in countries that have stronger GDP growth, we do better in countries that have stronger online advertising that's already in place, we do better than --. But in general the message is positive but it is very country specifics. So the UK would differ from France which would differ from Germany, etc.  

OPERATOR: Anthony Noto, Goldman Sachs.  

ANTHONY NOTO, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Eric, I was wondering if you could comment on monetization. Last quarter you had talked to the fact that that was a big driver of growth and again George mentioned it this quarter. And so I was wondering if you could comment on the sequential change magnitude basis and click through rates and how that may have compared internationally versus domestically?  

And the other thing that I thought was interesting is that it was mentioned that branded advertisers are looking at paid listings from a branding benefit. Is there some type of innovation that you could create where you have a pricing format that's for a branded experience as well as a click through experience, i.e. some type graphic that pops up as you roll over your mouse or something more imaginative than that of course?  

GEORGE REYES: Anthony, was that eight or ten questions?  

ANTHONY NOTO: I figured the magnitude of your out performance allows me to ask more questions.  

GEORGE REYES: Eric will take care of that.  

ERIC SCHMIDT: With respect to your product idea, we welcome product ideas from users. There are many ways in which the advertising model that we have been able to pioneer here now can be extended and we're looking at a number of them. We don't (indiscernible) know which one is going to work so we try them and test them. And we will be constantly testing these newer models. There's clearly an opportunity -- we already are shipping, as I think you know, image ads; we can target them better, extend them in various ways so that's an obvious product direction for us.  

With respect to the click through and conversions, as I indicated in my opening comments, I would really encourage everybody not to use estimates of those to try to model what's really going on. No single set of estimates appear to me to be accurate enough predictors and I don't want people to be misled.  

OPERATOR: Rafi Raschi (ph), Piper Jaffray.  

RAFI RASCHI, ANALYST, PIPER JAFFRAY: Congratulations on a great quarter. I wanted to ask you about MSN and the competition that you are facing or maybe facing more in the future as they develop their search capabilities. In particular, if you could talk a little bit -- maybe this is getting a little too technical -- but I was curious to know from you, Sergey Brin, especially, what are your plans to move to 64-bit architecture given that MSN is on that platform? And what advantages do you think such a move offers and how (indiscernible) it can be and is it in your current expenditures plan to do that? Thanks.  

SERGEY BRIN: I think the underlying architecture is completely invisible to end-users, so we're going to make architectural decisions based completely on the optimization and the cost issues and so forth and ultimately we're just going to drive the best possible user experience off the engines we have underneath. I do not expect that the particular choice of architecture or even the mix of multiple architectures in our system is ultimately going to be a significant deciding factor in the success of our service (inaudible).  

OPERATOR: Mary Meeker, Morgan Stanley.  

MARY MEEKER, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: George, I was going to ask you how the half a million dollars in CapEx might affect the business model, but I'll pass on that. But Larry, you talked about upload.video.Google and the opportunity to monetize that over time. Sergey talked a little bit about payment systems for advertisers. Could you give us a sense of how you think upload.video.Google might play out and how the monetization aspect of it might play out and how a payment mechanism might play out for other parts of the business? Thanks.  

ERIC SCHMIDT: About upload.video.com -- thanks, Mary, for your question. Like we said, it's an experimental service, we've launched collect a lot of video and help distribute and monetize it for people. And like many of the efforts we do at Google, we're not sure exactly what the details will be like for that and in fact we're just accepting videos now, we're not distributing them yet, but we hope to. So we have a number of very innovative products like that and we're hopeful a lot of them work out really well.  

OPERATOR: Jordan Rohan, RBC Capital Markets.  

JORDAN ROHAN, ANALYST, RBC: I'm going to ask the click fraud question in a slightly different way than you may have heard it in the past. It seems like your sites are growing much faster than the sites of your affiliates. I know there's a possibility and an option for advertisers to deselect the affiliate network in the AdSense for content option when they place bids. Do you think there's a move afoot to favor Google -- listings on Google websites as opposed to the affiliate networks because of click fraud? Is click fraud playing into this at all? Any perspective would be much appreciated.  

SERGEY BRIN: I know the click fraud question has received a lot of attention and so forth. I just would like to go through a few top-level thoughts about click fraud. First, that so far there's not been a material issue for Google and I think we're managing click fraud very well. We have a sophisticated technology that detects click fraud and we're able to just eliminate it right off the bat. That's not to say it's foolproof, but I'm not saying that nothing gets by.  

Secondly, we have a fairly complex advertising model and charging model and so forth that gives us some advantages over other ad networks that are per click ad networks that make us not equivalent to them and I think give us some advantage.  

Finally, we're moving to a world where we're able to show very, very clear value to advertisers in a way that's been unprecedented I think in any form of advertising before. And in fact going beyond clicks to conversions with the services we've already deployed like conversion tracking and the new tools that we are going to deploy both via for example the Urchin acquisition and others that we're developing internally. Ultimately I think that we're going to provide the best possible very clear and transparent value to advertisers of any systems that I've seen.  

So I think that we are very optimistic. Now also on your question in terms of adding sites, that's exactly the case. You need to have the monitoring and data in place so that you can have a very large open network and yet still be able to filter out sites that -- well, maybe they have click fraud or they just don't perform that well in which case you don't necessarily filter them out but you need to reimburse them, just lower for that reason. And I think we're getting all of the data and technologies in place to be able to do that extraordinarily well.  

OPERATOR: Jim Friedland, SG Cowen.  

JIM FRIEDLAND, ANALYST, SG COWEN: Can you give us an idea of in terms of the size of the buckets of your revenues in the core paid search product in terms of percentage of revenues related to retail terms, travel terms, finance terms, etc., at least the biggest buckets?  

ERIC SCHMIDT: We don't really break those categories out. It's difficult to give really precise estimates in that. I can give you a flavor of it. They're all quite well represented now in our model and we're not overly dependent on any particular category or sort of one concern that people have expressed before. So we're pretty well diversified across all of the categories now.  

OPERATOR: Douglas Anmuth, Lehman Brothers.  

DOUGLAS ANMUTH, ANALYST, LEHMAN BROTHERS: Can you provide some more detail on how Google is working with advertisers to help run their campaign and how the jump start program and the acquisition of Urchin fits into the strategy going forward? Thank you.  

ERIC SCHMIDT: I can start by saying that for larger advertisers we have teams that work with them; we have a sales team, technical support we have what are called maximizers. And these maximizers work to make sure that the creatives really work. The sophisticated customers now have many, many thousands of programs, campaigns and keywords and so we brought out a set of automated tools that allow them to submit, rank, change and in fact dynamically change through a set of APIs that were discussed earlier so that they can really change what they're doing every hour, every day literally every minute. There's a fair amount of work that's done on-site with the larger customers to make that happen.  

SERGEY BRIN: I would add to that a little bit that we have a broad range of advertisers today -- both the very large to very small ones. The system is optimized somewhat for the middle which is why we're doing additional work, as Eric mentioned, for the very large advertisers to allow them to manage even better their huge campaigns as well as for the lowest end to make things simple. The existing system is really designed to allow advertisers to advertise very efficiently and get really good ROI out of their spending. But we need to achieve a greater level of simplicity for newcomer advertisers that are smaller, too.  

OPERATOR: Christa Quarles, Thomas Weisel.  

CHRISTA QUARLES, ANALYST, THOMAS WEISEL: I noticed that you opened gmail up to everybody this quarter. I was wondering if you could highlight the total number of registered users you might have for the product. And then I noticed that you were using the same registration for the search history product and I was wondering if you view that as developing into a behavioral advertising product or if you just see that as adding to your relevancy algorithm to determine placement? And then George, if you could tell us what the FX benefit was in the quarter. Thanks.  

SERGEY BRIN: On the gmail note, it is not broadly available in the sense that anybody can just come to the site and sign up. There were some tests that we ran where it did not require an invitation but rather some set of users was selected from the Google website to receive accounts directly. We haven't broken out specifics that -- on number of users, but we're very happy with the way the service is growing and, more importantly, with the feedback that we're getting from the users.  

On the search history, MySearchHistory launch is designed with the only intent of dealing with the real user issue which is that you sometimes find something you want or you try to find it and you can't remember the search you did or you don't want to do the same one again and things like that. It's really designed to be a great research tool with the end-user in mind. I don't think anybody has a thought about advertising with respect to that. And you had a question for George also, right?  

GEORGE REYES: So the FX benefit Q4 to Q1 was $14 million. And it was benefit.  

OPERATOR: David Garrity, Caris & Co.  

DAVID GARRITY, ANALYST, CARIS & CO.: A very simple question here, but it's probably one important to everybody. Obviously doing a phenomenal job of converting your revenues into free cash flow. And I know that there is an issue here with respect to current shareholders of the stock wishing to find liquidity over time. Would you ever think about instituting a buyback program to channel your excess cash towards buying in stock from people who wish to sell who are employed by the Company?  

ERIC SCHMIDT: Thanks for your question. Such programs may or may not make sense in the future as the Company grows and so forth. But we certainly made a decision at the moment to stay focused on the current model which is to accumulate the cash. There are lots and lots of interesting things that we'll be doing over the next year or two for which we may need some of that cash. So we certainly have no plans to do what you're describing.  

OPERATOR: Jeetil Patel, Deutsche Bank.  

JEETIL PATEL, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: If you look at other media besides the Internet, can you talk about how your solutions and technologies can fit across other media to add value to the consumer experience in terms of accessing information and services whether it be helping them program content for say cable companies or potentially generate revenues or just basically pay for content? Is that something that as you look at the longer-term fits into the mold of what may be available from a brand permission standpoint for Google?  

ERIC SCHMIDT: We always start these questions by asking the end-user benefit question. And we've been fortunate that there's a very large space where targeted advertising, which is the kind of paper performance, return on investment of advertising that Google is in the business of really does provide end-user value. So as we think about your question, which we do discuss internally, we would only do those in areas where we could see a real end-user benefit, more targeting something more useful than what is available to them today.  

And I think we could probably together speculate on 20 such categories where an existing model would benefit from the kind of technology that Google has managed to build. We've talked earlier and I've said before that this advertising network that -- auction based, competitive, very, very dynamic, very international -- is a beautiful thing. And we're certainly going to extend it as broadly as we can.  

OPERATOR: John Tinker, ThinkEquity Partners.  

JOHN TINKER, ANALYST, THINKEQUITY PARTNERS: Could you just update us a little on what's happening in France hence that there was an issue with ASP and do you see that broadening into something bigger or was this a one-off?  

ERIC SCHMIDT: We've got a number of situations where we've become an important part of the distribution of information and we're in constant discussions with all of the various players. So in every one of the cases that you can think of which has received some press coverage which may ultimately result in a dispute even a legal dispute, what we're really doing is we're talking to them without going into the specifics of ASP or any of the other ones that have been mentioned in public discussions. Our strategy is to work with copyright holders and to find something that works. We very much have a goal of making all of this information accessible and useful while respecting ownership rights, distribution right, etc. And we work very hard on that.  

OPERATOR: Thank you. And due to time constraints I'd like to turn the conference back to our speakers for any additional or closing comments.  

ERIC SCHMIDT: Thank you, again, for spending so much time. I'm obviously very -- basically thanks, everybody, for spending the time. I think we are very, very busy here at Google. We run the Company based on the model that we've discussed. We're very, very focused on end-users. This notion of this cycle of better end-users -- better products, focused on end-user innovation and then the advertising revenue that flows in the model that we've discussed is a very, very powerful engine and one that we're very much focused on taking advantage of to the benefit of everyone. So with that, thanks again and we will talk to you in a quarter.  

OPERATOR: Thank you for your participation on today's conference call. You may disconnect at this time.  

[CCBN reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES CCBN ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. ]  

   CO
goog : Google Inc.
   IN
i8395464 : Internet Search Engines | iint : Internet/Online Services
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | gussec : Securities and Exchange Commission | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | ginda : Independent Agencies/Regulatory Bodies | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
FDCH e-Media, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020050505e14l002sh
  


 HD
 Q4  2004 Google Earnings Conference Call - Final  
   WC
9,762 words
   PD
1 February 2005
   SN
FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.    

   LP
OPERATOR: Good day and welcome everyone to the Google Inc. fourth-quarter and end of year earnings 2004 conference call. This call is being recorded. With us today from the Company is the Chief Executive Officer, Dr. Eric Schmidt; the co-Founder and President of Technology, Mr. Sergey Brin; the co-Founder and President of Products, Mr. Larry Page, and the Chief Financial Officer, Mr. George Reyes. At this time, I would like to turn the call over to the Head of Corporate Communications, Mr. David Krane. Please go ahead, sir.  

DAVID KRANE, HEAD OF CORPORATE COMMUNICATIONS, GOOGLE: Thank you. Good afternoon. Welcome to our fourth-quarter and year-end earnings call. On the call today are Eric Schmidt, Google's CEO; George Reyes, our CFO; Larry Page, Google co-Founder and President of Products, and Sergey Brin, Google co-Founder and President of Technology. This call is being webcast from the Investor Relations portion of our website.  

   TD
Additionally our press release issued a few minutes ago is now posted on our site. A replay of this call will be available beginning in a few hours. Some of the comments we will make today are forward-looking statements, including statements regarding our operational performance and execution over the long-term, the prospects for growth in online advertising and our leadership position in this industry, our continuing ability to grow and innovate the focus of our development efforts and the future implementation of recently announced products, our expected traffic growth, the growth patterns of our AdSense network and our Google websites, the growth of certain of our facilities, our continued focus on international operations, our expected investments in R&D, our future operating margins, our anticipated levels of stock-based compensation charges, and our future effective tax rate. These statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated by these forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include a variety of factors, some of which are beyond Google's control. These forward-looking statements speak as of today, and you should not rely on them as representing Google's views in the future. We undertake no obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date that they were made.  

Please refer to our recent SEC filings, including our quarterly report filed on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2004, for a more detailed description of the risk factors that may affect our results. Copies of these documents may be obtained from the SEC or by visiting the Investor Relations portion of our website.  

Also please note that certain financial measures we use on this call such as free cash flow and adjusted EBITDA are certainly expressed on a non-GAAP basis and, therefore, have been adjusted to exclude certain items such as charges in connection with stock-based compensation and in the case of our Q3 and annual results with certain non-recurring charges in connection with the settlement of a dispute. The presentation of GAAP financial information for the quarter ended September 31, 2004 and the reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP financial measures are included either in the substance of this conference or in the financial statements accompanying today's earnings release which is available on our Investor Relations website.  

With that, I would like to turn the call over to Eric.  

ERIC SCHMIDT, CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER, GOOGLE: Thanks, David. I would like to thank everybody for joining us on the call today. Let me begin with a few introductory comments, then George will go over our financial results in some more detail. After George goes through the numbers, Larry will then highlight some product and advertising accomplishments of last quarter, and Sergey will follow that with updates on significant deals and a discussion of talent, retention and recruiting -- a big priority of Google.  

We are extremely pleased with this quarter. As you know by now from seeing the release, we again had a record quarter. We innovated, we grew, we executed, and most importantly, we continued to strengthen our relationship with our users.  

Before we share too much more about the past quarter, I do want to emphasize again our long-term approach to our business. Google will continue to take risks and make investments we believe will deliver over the long-term.  

As is clear from our results this quarter, this approach may also translate into exceptional short-term results, which is great, but we remain disciplined in our focus on and most committed in the long-term. This is especially important to remember, and let me say it again, we have such strong quarterly results as we just announced.  

George, now I would like to turn it over to you to discuss our financial results in some detail. George?  

GEORGE REYES, CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER, GOOGLE: Thank you, Eric. My objective for this portion of the call is to help you better understand our performance during the December quarter of 2004. While we know that it is customary for companies to detail the results of both Q4 and the full year, we would like to do things a bit differently. I would prefer to spend the majority of my time helping you to better understand our Q4 results and will only touch lightly on the annual numbers rather than droning on about how the fourth quarters add up. We will instead use the additional time for Q&A.  

As we noted last quarter, when we discuss revenues, we are referring to gross revenue with the revenue we generate prior to any revenue share payments that we pay to our network members. As all of you know, these payments are known as TAC. While our financial statements are prepared on a GAAP basis and report gross revenue, some of you discuss our revenue on a net basis defined as gross revenue less TAC. For those of you that choose to track our results this way, net revenue can be easily derived from the financial data section of our Investor Relations website.  

One additional housekeeping item before we get started. As you will recall, our authority results last quarter included a 201 million non-recurring non-cash charge associated with a legal settlement. This charge significantly reduced our reported GAAP operating income. As a result, any sequential growth rate comparisons for our operating income or margins this quarter will be distorted. Therefore, for the remainder of today's discussion, when we refer to our sequential rates of growth for operating or net profit, we will be comparing this quarter's results against Q3 results before this onetime charge s we believe this is the most appropriate way to characterize our actual rates of sequential improvement.  

Okay, now onto the highlights for the quarter. We are extremely pleased with the results for the December quarter of 2004. Coming off a very strong Q3, we saw further strong seasonal acceleration in our rate of sequential revenue growth. Revenue in the fourth quarter more than doubled from 512 million last year to 1.03 billion this year, representing year-over-year growth for the quarter of 101 percent. This quarter for the first time in our history we believe that we have become the Internet's largest generator of online advertising revenue. This statement holds true whether you analyze our quarterly results before or after our revenue share payments to our network members.  

On a sequential basis, our fourth-quarter revenue increased 28 percent over the quarter ended September 30, 2004 above and beyond the very strong 15 percent sequential growth we realized between Q2 and Q3 of 2004. Operating income for the fourth quarter was 303 million. This compares to 86 million in Q4 of 2003, an annual increase of 250 percent.  

On a sequential basis, again using GAAP results, our operating income increased 2625 percent from 11 percent in Q3 of 2004. Adjusting for the settlement charge, operating income grew 43 percent sequentially from the 212 million we earned last quarter. Please note that like last quarter our reported operating income for this quarter includes a non-cash charge related to stock-based compensation. This quarter the charge was 60 million as compared to 68 million in the third quarter and 85 million in Q4 of 2003.  

Pretax income on a GAAP basis increased from 89 million in Q4 of 2003 to 310 million in the fourth quarter of this year, an increase of 247 percent. This represents a sequential increase of 44 percent from the 216 million we reported last quarter after adjusting for the settlement charge. Net income for the fourth quarter was 204 million as compared to 27 million for last year's fourth quarter, an increase of 649 percent. Diluted net income per share for the fourth quarter was 71 cents on 286 million diluted shares outstanding compared to 19 cents as reported on a GAAP basis for the third quarter on 275 million shares outstanding.  

Cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments for the fourth quarter were nearly 2.1 billion compared to 1.9 billion at the end of the third quarter of 2004. This increase in liquidity is primarily attributable to the strong free cash flow generated during Q4 of 2004. Adjusted EBITDA -- and by adjusted we mean EBITDA before the nonstock non-cash stock-based compensation charge, the Q3 non-recurring settlement charge, and in process R&D -- increased by 104 million or 32 percent to 425 million or roughly 41 percent of revenue in Q4, up from 321 million or again roughly 40 percent of revenue in Q3. Capital expenditures for the fourth quarter totaled 59 million compared to 78 million during the year's third quarter.  

The summary of our annual results is as follows. Revenues increased 118 percent to 3.2 billion as compared to 1.5 billion in fiscal 2003. International revenues accounted for 34 percent of total revenue this year, up from 29 percent in fiscal 2003. Operating income increased to 640 million from 342 million in 2003, an increase of 87 percent. If we again adjust for the 201 million settlement charge in the third quarter related to the settlement of legal disputes, operating income for the year rose to 841 million, a 146 percent increase over annual operating income reported in 2003.  

We are particularly pleased that our growth rate this year accelerated over the 84 percent increase in operating income we achieved between 2002 and 2003. Our operating margin for the full year of 2004 increased to 26.4 percent from the full-year margin of 23.4 percent we achieved in 2003.  

In all cases our operating income includes non-cash charges for stock-based compensation. In 2003 the charge totaled 229 million, and in 2004 the annual charge was 279 million.  

On a GAAP basis, net income for the year was 399 million, an increase of 278 percent over the 106 million we reported for 2003. Earnings per share increased to $1.46 on a share count of 273 million shares as compared to 41 cents on a share count of 257 million for 2003. During 2004 we generated cash flow from operations of just under $1 billion at 977 million. This number is up 147 percent from our 2003 cash flow from operations of 395 million.  

Capital expenditures for the year totaled 319 million, up from 177 million in 2003. Free cash flow, which is an alternative non-GAAP measure of liquidity, is derived by subtracting capital expenditures from cash flow from operations in 2004 totaled 658 million as compared to free cash flow generation in 2003 of 219 million.  

Let's dig a little bit deeper now into the details of Q4. As you know, the fourth quarter is typically a strong one for our sector, and this year was absolutely no exception. Once again we saw an increase in the quarter to quarter growth rates as revenue increased sequentially by 28 percent, following on the heels of a surprisingly strong sequential increase of 15 percent between Q2 and Q3 of 2004. We attribute this strength to a strong holiday traffic growth, continued improvement in our Google.com and Google network monetization rates and to a lesser extent new partnerships launched during the quarter. We are very pleased to report that this quarter revenue growth was evenly distributed between our Google sites and our Google Network sites, which grew by 29 percent and 28 percent respectively on a sequential basis.  

Revenue from our own sites increased to 530 million in Q4 from 412 million in Q3. Revenue from our sites represented 51 percent of total revenue this quarter, the same as last. Revenue from the Google Network -- the third-party sites that display ads provided by Google -- increased to 490 million in Q4 from 384 million in Q3. The Network represented 48 percent of total revenue. The Network's quarter-to-quarter growth of 28 percent was a significant increase over the Q2 to Q3 sequential increase of 11 percent.  

We attribute this increased growth rate to strong seasonal patterns, improvement in the monetization rate of our Google Network sites, and the continuing and strong growth of our AdSense for Content network and also the mid-November edition of AOL Europe to the AdSense for Search network. The network's rapid growth is a tangible demonstration of the mutual benefits realized by Google and by our valued partners as we work together to improve the quality of online advertising globally.  

Just like last quarter, our international operations contributed 35 percent of total revenue in the fourth quarter. We attribute the strength of our international operations primarily to our increased focus on this portion of our business. And as many of you know, we are delighted to add a significant new partner, AOL Europe, to our network this quarter. As we look ahead, we expect our international operations will continue to be an area of increasing focus in 2005.  

Let's now shift gears and talk about our cost structure. Let's start with cost of revenue. As a reminder, cost of revenue at Google is comprised mainly of traffic acquisition costs, expenses associated with the operation of our data centers, credit card processing charges, as well as other transaction fees, and the amortization associated with license technologies and other intangibles.  

In the fourth quarter, these costs rose to 454 million or 44 percent of revenue from 362 million in the previous quarter or 45 percent of revenue. TAC or the revenue share we pay to our partners increased from 303 million last quarter to 378 million in Q4. TAC decreased as a percentage of Google Network revenue this quarter in part because we saw exceptional revenue performance in several partners with guaranteed minimum payments, resulting in fewer nonperforming deals and an overall higher margin for our AdSense program. Also some of the decrease in TAC as a percentage of revenue traces back to the fact that this quarter a greater portion of the network revenue was derived from members with whom we generally have lower revenue share obligations.  

In Q4 of 2004, R&D spending rose to 87 million from 57 million in Q3 or 8.5 percent of revenue as opposed to 7.1 percent of revenue last quarter. This increase includes a $10.4 million charge related to end process R&D associated with recent acquisitions. Over time we expect to incur other similar charges as we acquire other interesting technologies. As we have said many times before, great engineering is the foundation upon which we have built Google. So going forward you should expect to see additional substantial investments in R&D.  

Sales and marketing decreased sequentially from 8.1 percent of revenue to 7.4 percent of revenue, while increasing in absolute dollars from 66 million to 76 million. G&A increased from 41 million to 52 million sequentially, an increase of 27 percent. Primary drivers were the continued buildout of the systems, processes and personnel required to operating a growing public company.  

Within these numbers, we made substantial investments in our payments, billing and IT infrastructure specifically. Stock-based compensation charges continued to trend downward to 60 million this quarter from 68 million in Q3. Future changes in this line item are a function of the deferred stock-base compensation currently on our books, future grants and upcoming changes to stock compensation rules. These non-cash charges will continue to reduce our reported operating profit and may make it more difficult to accurately compare our results with companies that do not have similar charges.  

Our operating margin on a GAAP basis was 29.4 percent, up from a reported margin of 1.4 percent last quarter. Adjusting for the $201 million charge last quarter our operating margin was 26.3 percent in Q3 of 2004. This improvement was primarily due to the reduced stock-based compensation charges as a percentage of revenue as mentioned above, reductions in TAC as a percentage of revenue, and to a lesser degree reduced sales and marketing expense as a percentage of revenue. These reductions were partially offset by the increase in R&D spending. As always, we reiterate our previously issued caution that over time and for a variety of reasons operating margin may decline.  

Okay, now to the numbers I'm sure all of you have been waiting for, income taxes. Once again, the numbers merit some explanation.  

In the fourth quarter, several items had a material benefit on either the provision for income taxes reported on our P&L, our income taxes receivable or both. The first item is a reduction to our provision for income taxes of 24 million related to stock-based compensation charges recognized prior to the IPO for unexercised non-clause. As you might recall, we had a similar reduction last quarter. We recognized the final reduction to our provision for these options in the fourth quarter.  

Going forward as we continue to recognize post-IPO stock-based compensation, we will also record a reduction to our provision for income taxes and a deferred tax asset. Once these options are exercised, we will then realize the actual reduction to our income tax obligation.  

The second item on the tax front this quarter is a reduction to our provision for income taxes and an increase to our income tax receivable of $42 million related to incentive stock option disqualifying dispositions. This reduction to our provision may not be non-recurring in terms of significance going forward since it is very difficult to predict the behavior of option holders as they assess their option exercise strategies. We cannot predict the extent of disqualifying dispositions in the future, and as a result, we cannot predict any related reductions to our provision for income taxes in subsequent periods. As a result, it is likely we will experience volatility in our quarterly effective tax rate.  

The third item on the tax front is an increase to our income tax receivable of 36 million as a result of the exercise of warrants. This had no effect on our provision for income taxes in the current period. The net result of these items was a $66 million reduction to our provision for income taxes this quarter. Therefore, we recorded a provision for income taxes of 106 million on our P&L in the fourth quarter or an effective tax rate of 34 percent. We expect our effective tax rate before these items to generally trend lower over the longer-term to a rate below 35 percent.  

Let's move to net income. In the fourth quarter, we generated net income of 204 million or 19.8 percent of revenue. This margin is up from the 6.5 percent we realized last quarter. A year ago in the fourth quarter we achieved a net margin of 5.3 percent.  

On the liquidity front, net cash provided by operating activities for the three months ended December 31st of 2004 totaled 354 million as compared to 238 million last quarter, an increase of 49 percent. In the fourth quarter of 2003, we generated 87 million in cash flow from operations.  

On the EBITDA front, adjusted EBITDA -- and we mean EBITDA before non-cash stock-based compensation charges, the non-recurring settlement charge and in process R&D -- is another alternative measure of liquidity to GAAP net cash provided by operating activities. Adjusted EBITDA increased by approximately 104 million or 32 percent to 425 million or roughly 41 percent of revenue in Q4 from 321 million or roughly 40 percent of revenue in Q3.  

The reconciliation of adjusted EBITDA to the GAAP measure of liquidity net cash provided by operating activities is set forth in our earnings release. A copy of this release is posted on our website.  

Free cash flow, an alternative measure of liquidity to GAAP net cash provided by operating activities, is defined as cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures. This quarter we generated 309 million in free cash flow. Our capital expenditures in the quarter were 59 million as compared to 78 million last quarter and primarily reflect investments in our global infrastructure. We view these investments as a critical component of our strategy as ultimately the quality and reliability of our services are key competitive differentiators. Our cash, cash equivalent and short-term investment balances were more than 2.1 billion at December 31st of 2004, up from 101.9 billion at the end of last quarter. The increase was primarily attributable to cash generated from operations.  

Day sales outstanding increased to 28 days from 26 days last quarter. On a worldwide basis, we grew to 3021 full-time employees as of December 31st as compared to 2668 employees at September 30th of 2004.  

As you can compute, our productivity as measured by revenue per employee continues to far outpace that of our competitors.  

And with that, I would like to turn the call over to Larry.  

LARRY PAGE, CO-FOUNDER AND PRESIDENT OF PRODUCTS, GOOGLE: Thank you, George. Google is striving to achieve many things. In looking at our product developments over the past quarter, two important themes are visible. Both demonstrate our commitment to users.  

The first is our passion for collecting and making accessible more and more of the world's information. Second is our dedication to perpetually improve the user experience, which means not just delivering more information but delivering just the information you want and making the interfaces and tools easy-to-use. Our core technology search reflects both of these themes. We are focused sharply on core quality and relevance in search, perpetually improving our search precision impressions. We keep building more advanced systems for (inaudible) the Web, creating more sophisticated indices to sort what we find.  

We also increased our index size. In November we announced a near doubling of our Web index to more than 8 million pages. In December we announced our offer to several of the world's premier libraries to digitize their collections and make them searchable online. This will ultimately include millions of books. We believe there is an enormous amount of information that is not currently searchable online, and our library project reflects our desire to take that content and make it more easily available.  

Another product which we acquired in October also adds to the amount of information offered by Google. Keyhole delivers a multi terabyte database of images and mapping information that lets users fly around the world from their home computer, as well as locate a hotel, school or park. This is an excellent addition to our product offering to users, and we plan on integrating and building on it over time as the localization of search becomes more important.  

In October we announced Google Desktop Search which enables users to search their e-mail files, Web history and chats. This product has proven to be very popular, and user feedback has been very positive. We are continuing to develop this technology, and we plan on updating Google Desktop Search soon with even better functionality.  

Another product that has made accessing information easier for users is our SMS product which was launched in October. It enables people who are away from their computers to get information instantly by other mobile phone or other handheld device.  

Already in this quarter we have made announcements about new products that deliver more information that users want. Just last week we announced Google Video. With this, users can search the content to television programs from leading TV content providers. And we introduced Picasa 2, a new version which added editing tools and other advanced features to this already innovative photo management offer.  

In the coming weeks and months, Google will be delivering more product improvements, new products that personalize, localize and internationalize. We had a great fourth quarter, and we have more exciting things coming.  

I would also like to share some significant developments in our ad program. Google has been making strategic investments that help us take advantage of the great growth in the online advertising sector. These investments are in three areas.  

First, Fortune 1000 customers and their advertising agencies. Second, the structure of our sales and operation teams in advertising. The third developing a strong ecosystem around Google's advertising programs. We devoted more people and training resources to our Fortune 1000 customers and their agencies, teaching them and learning more ourselves in the process about how to most effectively use online advertising. We have been conducting formal training with agencies, showing them how to bring measurable accountability to their clients' advertising investments, the investment accountability of online advertising with a great driver growth that is becoming more so. In fact, the measurable benefit of online advertising helped many of our Fortune 1000 customers to build online and AdSense marketing teams with our in-house marketing departments.  

Second, Google has made structural changes in our sales and operations teams. We now organize them vertically by industry and are already seeing the benefit of that change. It has increased our effectiveness with advertisers, our teams that work with particular types of advertisers whether they are large consumer advertisers or global B2B companies, know the metrics, competitive landscapes and more effective campaigns for those specific kind of advertisers and their industries.  

The third area of investment is in supporting and developing ecosystem of advertising professionals to help fuel our advertising programs. In November we introduced the Google Advertising Professionals Program, which provides tools for and trains professionals who manage Google AdWords accounts on behalf of advertisers. It offers certification for those who pass a manual certification exam and meet other requirements. This program empowers the third parties that have prospered around Google's AdWords programs.  

Google is not only innovative in the way we develop products and technology, we are creative in our work with customers, too. Sergey, over to you.  

SERGEY BRIN, CO-FOUNDER AND PRESIDENT OF TECHNOLOGY, GOOGLE: Thank you, Larry. As Eric mentioned, I would like to discuss our partner growth and our investment and talents. In the past quarter, we have signed up a number of new AdSense partners, including the India Times, (inaudible) and Reuters America. In Europe we announced the multiyear agreement with AOL Europe. We have also renewed long-term partnerships with sites such as virgin.net, shopping.com.uk, CNet and Excite Japan.  

We also formed a very important alliance with BellSouth. This is a multiyear agreement that makes them the first authorized AdWords reseller. Individually and combined, all these deals and partnerships and many others demonstrate the strength of the relationships with our partners this past quarter.  

Now let me talk about some of our investments in our people. We have had substantial growth in research and development over the past year. We continue to grow our R&D centers at our Mountain View headquarters, New York and Santa Monica. We have also funded a new center in Kirkland, Washington. Internationally, we now have R&D in Zurich, Bangalore and our newest center in Tokyo. We are actively recruiting in each of these locations and are drawing on talent from Europe, India and Japan respectively.  

Great engineers are all over the world, and we aim to attract the best and brightest from every corner of the globe.  

Before I hand the call over to Eric, I would like to say a little bit about attracting and keeping the world's best talent. The competition for great people is strong, and our business depends on success in this area. Google continues to attract and recognize the best talent in many creative ways. As with many fast-growing public companies, one of our challenges is to sustain the appeal and culture of a startup. We want to attract innovators, entrepreneurs and people who are excited about creating new products, services and businesses.  

One of the most recent and unique efforts to do this is our Founders Award. This program offers recognition and financial rewards for major innovations and value creation within the Company. These are not just small cash bonuses, but awards that typically go to small groups of people and can be as large as millions of dollars per person.  

We awarded two of these in the last quarter. One for a team's accomplishment developing a new advertising technology, and the other to a team that designed and built an innovative business process. The two team awards last quarter totaled $12 million. In several cases, the individual portions of those awards substantially exceeded the value of options held by the employees. Thus, Founders Awards provide a rich financial upside to teams that make great contributions.  

This is both a great internal incentive and recognition, as well as a way to attract new employees who might otherwise opt for a startup. These awards are not executive pay programs, but aimed at individual contributors and manager level employees. The award size is also not predetermined. There is no target, but reflects the value created for the Company.  

The awards are given in restricted stock units vesting over four years without a one-year cliff. The two awards we made last quarter are just the start, and we hope to give many more such awards based on the tremendous accomplishments of our employees. This new program is just one of many ways we are able to attract and retain the world's best talent.  

Eric, over to you.  

ERIC SCHMIDT: Well, thanks a lot, Sergey. That was great. 2004 and the last quarter were very, very exciting times here at Google. We believe 2005 will turn out just to be just as exciting. We are fortunate to have such a talented group of people contributing to our business. We are even more fortunate to have a loyal dedicated community of users to customers and partners.  

We run Google focused very much on user benefit, and I think you can see the impact of what we're doing. We appreciate all of the feedback we are receiving, some of it challenging us, some of it expressing appreciation. We are perpetually learning and experimenting at Google as we remain grateful to everyone who contributes to Google in so many different ways.  

And with that, let's -- we have talked a lot -- let's take your questions. Please note there are quite a few people on this call. We want to take your questions one at a time. If after giving everyone one chance there is time, we will come back for some follow-ups. Please help us with this process by truly limiting yourself to a single question. So, operator, can you begin the process?  

OPERATOR: (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS). Scott Kessler, Standard & Poor's Equity Research.  

SCOTT KESSLER, ANALYST, STANDARD & POOR'S EQUITY RESEARCH: I was wondering if you could talk about some of the drivers of growth internationally? Clearly it is no secret that you guys have prioritized international as an important area of growth. I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about how you are attacking that particular marketplace, particularly from a sales perspective?  

SERGEY BRIN: The international growth has been tremendous, and obviously there are many very fast growing markets. We have expanded our sales offices. I don't have the exact number for you right now, but there are over a dozen international sales offices.  

But another important key is the international product development. We have over this past quarter we have launched localized and then internationalized versions of probably a half-dozen products at least. And while we have also invested in the international R&D organizations that I mentioned, so the best technology, for example, for i.e. mobile phone users will probably come out of our Tokyo or our European R&D office because these are just substantially lower in the U.S..  

I expect that we are going to come out now that we have staffed these offices with many exciting new products just for the international markets.  

ERIC SCHMIDT: Scott, this is Eric. Let me just add that we are seeing improved monetization throughout our international operations, and a lot of that is just because the investments we've made in the last year or two. We have prioritized international expansion for 2005 extremely highly because we are seeing all the benefits that you can imagine from increased monetization, greater market share, stronger penetration, and we expect to do very very well internationally. Next question.  

OPERATOR: Anthony Noto, Goldman Sachs.  

ANTHONY NOTO, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Eric, I know on the last call you mentioned that you think the most important measurement is revenue, but you just mentioned monetization and George also mentioned it as a core benefit in the quarter. I was wondering if you could elaborate a little bit on the improvements in monetization in terms of underlying trends and coverage and cliff year rates and the products that drove those improvements?  

ERIC SCHMIDT: Well, as you know, we don't break out the exact formula because the systems that we use use very very complicated factors to determine when to show ads and how to accommodate everybody.  

What we have seen is a couple of things. We have seen increases in user traffic. We have also seen -- significant ones I might add -- we have seen significant modernization on a per click basis, and we've also seen significant quality improvements.  

The primary driver of the latter have been improvements in the technology that we used literally the network of computers that does add targeting, and we have been making product improvements in that basis that have been just throughout the last year. And when I think about each of the specific products, which both in dealing with higher quality ads, prioritizing poor quality ads lower, that sort of thing, some of those have really driven improvement in monetization. That improvement in monetization is then recognized as this very strong revenue growth that we saw.  

OPERATOR: Lauren Fine, Merrill Lynch.  

LAUREN FINE, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: Thank you. I guess back on international, could you give us a sense of what the growth rate was on the Google website versus affiliates?  

ERIC SCHMIDT: This is Eric. On a user basis or on a revenue basis?  

LAUREN FINE: Revenue basis.  

ERIC SCHMIDT: We don't have it in front of us. I don't know that we break it out. Let's see if we can figure it out.  

LAUREN FINE: Or just directionally if one grew faster than the other?  

GEORGE REYES: Yes. Just the domestic international -- are you asking the domestic international split?  

LAUREN FINE: I would take that, but I was asking specifically about just international.  

GEORGE REYES: This is George. I'm sorry. I did not quite understand the question.  

LAUREN FINE: I'm trying to get a breakdown, and I guess just to be clear domestic versus international, I'm trying to break out the growth rate of Google website versus affiliate but by geography. So domestic versus (multiple speakers) international.  

GEORGE REYES: We are not prepared to provide sort of a geographic breakdown at this point.  

ERIC SCHMIDT: We don't break it out on that basis on a sub-global region unfortunately.  

LAUREN FINE: Anything even qualitative that you could provide in terms of relative growth rates, relative proportion of revenue overseas coming from Google website versus affiliates?  

ERIC SCHMIDT: Again, we don't break it out. I could tell you that all sectors of our business have grown very rapidly, and I think we did highlight the AOL Europe deal, which has certainly helped us a lot.  

LAUREN FINE: I guess I will sneak in another question since you could not answer that. Just if you could talk about some of your -- what trend you would expect to see in your own advertising expense as you're rolling out new products?  

ERIC SCHMIDT: You're referring to the kind of marketing and advertising Google will be doing?  

LAUREN FINE: Yes.  

ERIC SCHMIDT: We have traditionally spent relatively little money on traditional marketing. We have done some ROI-based advertising because, of course, that is the business that Google is in. I don't see a material change in the amount of money that we're spending there, and my guess is it will scale with the business.  

We have not found a need to change the way we market our products or services. I think they are doing quite well at the current level of investment and the current tactics.  

OPERATOR: Emran Khan, J.P. Morgan.  

EMRAN KHAN, ANALYST, J.P. MORGAN: It seems like you guys gained market share in that your revenue grew faster than your major competitors. So I was trying to better understand, is it because of monetization rate or your core year volume growth was faster? What is the underlying growth that the U.S. growth was so strong compared to your competitors?  

GEORGE REYES: Well, as we indicated, we saw very favorable user traffic growth literally queries and people coming to Google, as well as to our partners on a query basis users literally.  

We also saw a compounding effect of the improvements in monetization. The former was we believe due to the improvements we made on the product perspective and the increasing reach of Google on the Internet worldwide. The latter is as much a function of deepening our ad network, strong growth in advertisers, the quality improvements that I highlighted earlier. So the compounding of the two effects is what contributes monetarily to very very strong revenue growth such as you saw.  

OPERATOR: Marianne Wolk, Susquehanna.  

MARIANNE WOLK, ANALYST, SUSQUEHANNA: I wonder since international has been strong and it is a focus, could you talk about what you're doing in Asia in particular and whether you are seeing any -- how the growth rate has been there relative to what you have seen in Europe and the UK? Are you starting to see a pickup outside of the UK? Maybe that is a better way to ask the question.  

ERIC SCHMIDT: We are, and again our international growth has been very positive both in terms of user traffic, as well as advertising revenue in essentially all international regions.  

What is interesting to me is how untapped those markets are. So any straightforward analysis of the number of Internet users, the market share, the number of people searching indicates huge both user as well as revenue potential as those markets emerge, hence the priority within the Company.  

On a relative basis, of course, the U.S. and Western Europe are the more mature -- if you want to use the term mature -- although they are growing very quickly, and the additional countries, the rest of the world if you will, are a huge new focus of the Company where we have hired additional executives, we are opening new offices in the obvious major countries and putting significant investment. And we believe that that will translate into significant revenue monetization and user traffic very very quickly.  

OPERATOR: Mary Meeker, Morgan Stanley.  

MARY MEEKER, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Yes, I wanted to expand on Anthony's question a bit in that relation to monetization. Could you talk a little bit about the relative monetization for the AdWords product versus the AdSense product, and perhaps also talk about the competitive landscape and how you think you stack up on the monetization front?  

ERIC SCHMIDT: Sergey, do you want to sort of explain a little bit about the history of that and how you drove the AdSense product and how it has played out differently?  

SERGEY BRIN: Yes. Our monetization comes from three primary areas. As you pointed out, there is the Google.com and the other domains that we own ourselves. There is AdSense that you pointed out which has two categories. AdSense for Search where we have many large search partners such as AOL, Ask Jeeves and so forth and globally. And both AdSense for Search, as well as the search traffic on our own site, have been able to grow very well because of improvements in our ability to target because of the growth in the number of advertisers and so forth. Fundamentally I expect that to continue.  

I mentioned just recently how we had been giving out Founders Awards for significant accomplishments in the targeting of advertising research. But the other very interesting piece is AdSense for Content, and that is the one where we are able to target advertising on sites that are not search sites. You see that on a number of publications like the New York Times and so forth, and actually thousands and thousands of sites all around the Internet.  

The ability to monetize that is we have used a huge untapped resource. We obviously started in that market just very recently, and I think that we are going to be able to see really big improvements. In fact, we are working on many big improvements that will increase the monetization there. I expect ultimately that will probably have a faster rate of growth in terms of monetization per impression on a percentage basis because it is so new and there are so many opportunities.  

ERIC SCHMIDT: We're driving the monetization assumptions in each of these businesses with a view that there are significant product and advertising network improvements that we can make, and we believe we will benefit from such improvements over the next year.  

OPERATOR: Youssef Squali, Jefferies & Co. Investment Bank.  

YOUSSEF SQUALI, ANALYST, JEFFERIES & CO. INVESTMENT BANK: Thanks a lot. George, I was wondering if you could quantify for us the point exchange effects on both top and bottom lines?  

GEORGE REYES: Yes, I would be glad to. So on the top line it is a much easier question-and-answer. Roughly we had a benefit of about $14 million you know, and it was a blend of the Pound and the Euro. A little bit tougher to sort of get to how it bleeds through the rest of the income statement, but the top line was about 14 million benefit.  

OPERATOR: Christa Quarles, Thomas Weisel Partners.  

CHRISTA QUARLES, ANALYST, THOMAS WEISEL PARTNERS: I just wanted to see if you could flesh out your local strategy a bit, if you could highlight how the BellSouth relationship has been going, and as well how you might think about monetizing and then just how the acquisition of Keyhole and your investments in Mobile might tie into that overall strategy?  

LARRY PAGE: Well, thank you for the question. This is Larry. We are very excited about the local advertising in general and also working with a number of partners like you mentioned to acquire local advertisers and to help us. This will serve customers who get the right information that they need, and there are many many different aspects of that with people finding local information really well.  

There is many data sources, many advertising sources and many access points for consumers such as Mobile and otherwise, and I think everyone is very excited about local. It will take some time to really develop all of these aspects of the services in a way that make it a huge, huge thing for us.  

So we are very bullish on local, but I think also people should understand that it will take time to get adoption of all these services and also to make them work really, really well.  

OPERATOR: Mark Mahaney, American Technology Research.  

MARK MAHANEY, ANALYST, AMERICAN TECHNOLOGY RESEARCH: Just two quick fact-checking questions. That 14 million FX, was that year-to-year or quarter-to-quarter? And then I think you said that international was 35 percent of gross revenue in the December quarter. Just please confirm that.  

And then the larger question is, you have not provided a lot of financial guidance, but one of the things you did signal in one of your filings was that network websites would not grow as fast as your own website. It came very close this quarter. Is that sort of thinking in your guidance similar with that change going forward, and is that just the bump up from AOL, or is there something that changed when you had that statement in your filing to when he recorded (multiple speakers) the numbers.  

ERIC SCHMIDT: I think the way sort of the landscape shapes out now is we really do expect the Google properties to probably edge out the network going into '05, but it is dynamic and that could change. That is point one.  

Your other question was on the 14 million that was quarter-over-quarter. (technical difficulty)  

OPERATOR: Martin Pyykkonen, Janco Partners.  

MARTIN PYYKKONEN, ANALYST, JANCO PARTNERS: On the pricing question, you had mentioned that monetization was a benefit. I am curious as you have set up some of the Fortune 1000 sales teams and industry focused, as you look into 2005, are you feeling good about the ability for prices to continue to increase on a pay-per-click basis, or are there any foreseen or trendline to any sort of advertising resistance? Clearly the off-line to online allocation has a lot of headroom, but I'm just curious what you are seeing in the trenches on pricing.  

ERIC SCHMIDT: We have studied this quite carefully, and we believe that the largest companies worldwide, the ones that we call directly on our sales force have many, many, many dollars and appropriate currencies to invest in our kind of online advertising.  

There does not seem now to be price resistance against the product that we are describing. It seems to be pretty much supply limited. Plus, of course, there is training and learning this new model, and we invest significant resources in our sales force and associated technical services to help those customers understand the real benefits of this.  

But to answer your question specifically, there has been no significant resistance with respect to pricing, and there appears to be significant headroom if it is required. But the demand for there is very very strong, and it's a very much an untapped market.  

OPERATOR: Mark Rowen, Prudential.  

MARK ROWEN, ANALYST, PRUDENTIAL: Can you give us a sense for how you think about diversification of your revenue stream? Because right now just about all of your revenue comes from sponsored links and sponsored search. And I was wondering if internally you have some sort of framework for diversifying the revenue stream, or is it really just a matter of when you come up with great products that you can figure out how to monetize, it will happen when it happens?  

ERIC SCHMIDT: Mark, we're very very satisfied with the robustness of the advertising network in total. We have managed to build at Google through with help a lot of people and partners and so forth a very very strong dynamic option-driven network that we believe is quite resistant to a lot of the competitive challenges people worry about.  

This network has been applied first to traditional text ads as you mentioned, more recently AdSense. We are using it to monetize GMail. We have many other products.  

So we're very very comfortable that that asset in the business is a very very strong one being internationalized, strengthened and so forth. It can be applied to a lot of new areas as well if we're going to continue to do that.  

We run engineering and development very much on an opportunistic basis. So we encourage our engineering teams to be as creative as possible, and as the products of their great work come out, it should be relatively easy easily monetized through this mechanism or some of the others that are underdevelopment.  

In addition to that, our Enterprise business, although a relatively smaller percentage, has had a number of significant product wins, customer wins, and it is doing well on a comparison basis to other Enterprise businesses, and that creates another form of diversification.  

OPERATOR: Jim Friedland, SG Cowen.  

JIM FRIEDLAND, ANALYST, SG COWEN: Related to your announcement of digitizing the Stanford, Harvard libraries, etc., are these exclusive deals, or is it something that you're just helping them get up and running on and it will be open to all search engines?  

LARRY PAGE: This is Larry. You know, we're very excited about the deals we have with libraries, and it has been something we have worked on for many years. I think you know while many of these are public institutions and we would not seek to restrict their ability to do things, I would say there has been significant investment by us both in working with the partners and the legal work that has gone on and also the operational work that has gone on that I feel pretty comfortable about. So we're very excited about this.  

OPERATOR: Douglas Anmuth, Lehman Brothers.  

DOUGLAS ANMUTH, ANALYST, LEHMAN BROTHERS: Thank you. I was hoping you could talk about CapEx spending and what specifically drove it lower in the fourth quarter? Did you see better pricing or better utilization of the platform?  

GEORGE REYES: So the answer to that question is, we really don't control all the knots and dials on CapEx. There is a whole bunch of logistical things that can get in the way of it. So you should think of our strategy going forward as it is an area that is going to continue to draw substantial investment going forward. When you see sort of a downtick sequentially quarter-over-quarter, it is because of reasons like there is a scarcity of data center space available or our machine build cycle gets tied up because of component shortages. So I would look at this as an unusual blip, but you should look for our investments in CapEx to continue to increase at pretty healthy rates.  

OPERATOR: Lanny Baker, Smith Barney.  

LANNY BAKER, ANALYST, SMITH BARNEY: I think you spent a little bit of time talking about AdSense for Content, but also in my mind kind of along the lines of what seemed to be from a consumer standpoint, material product innovations. You have had GMail I guess in beta for getting close to a year and I think Froogle, too.  

I was wondering if you can help us understand a), I guess those are all in the Google website's portion of the business or maybe AdSense for Content is not. Can you kind of just help us understand where those are in the income statement, and to what degree those are contributing to the Company's growth today versus six months ago, or even what percentage of today's revenue is coming from those new products?  

SERGEY BRIN: I think of the ones you mentioned the AdSense for Content is a very substantial revenue generator, even though we have not broken it out separate from AdSense for Search. But it is very important to us. It is growing. We're very excited about it.  

Some of the other products you mentioned, while Froogle is certainly older than GMail so it does contribute to revenue, it is in the Google.com line, but it is not -- that is not what we're trying to drive out of it at the moment. We continue to iterate on a product like that to make it the best possible experience, and we worry about monetization second.  

You will notice actually even properties like Image, Search and News right now have no monetization on them, and they had been around for a substantial amount of time. We just want to continue to develop those and focus on making it the best possible experience for the users, and later we will think about the monetization aspects of that.  

You mentioned also some GMail. Once again, that does contribute some revenue because we do run advertising on that. But we are currently focused very much on continuing to innovate and deliver the best possible e-mail experience on the Web, and I'm very proud of how far we have come on that.  

OPERATOR: John Tinker, ThinkEquity Partners.  

JOHN TINKER, ANALYST, THINKEQUITY PARTNERS: Could you just talk a little more about your move into search on the TV side and whether you see Microsoft's move with the media centers accelerating the convergence of the PC in the TV?  

ERIC SCHMIDT: This is Eric. We have been looking at search in many many different forms of media, and we identified an opportunity in the video product which we have just recently launched to try to help people find television shows they are looking for, etc.. That technology over time it should be possible to extend that to many many forms of video as they become available online. We are working hard with partners to make that technology and products available.  

It is important to know that that content is owned by companies other than Google, and so it is important that we have permission from them to make that search product over that content available. Again, we are working very diligently to make that happen.  

All of the companies in the industry are working again very hard, and all of us have a shared goal of getting the media industry's technology into a form that is more directly deliverable over broadband networks, that sort of thing, more searchable. I think all of the actions by all the players help in that cause.  

Having said that, it will take some time for that to happen because our media partners are often constrained by business structures that were developed over many years that they have to respect and we respect those as well.  

OPERATOR: David Garrity, Caris & Company.  

DAVID GARRITY, ANALYST, CARIS & COMPANY: I have a question about your ending permanent headcount number. It looks like the number is a net number, and I'm trying to back out a gross number for the third and fourth quarters in other words to see how many hires there were in those quarters.  

ERIC SCHMIDT: I'm not exactly sure what you mean by a net number versus a gross number (multiple speakers)  

DAVID GARRITY: Well, in the --  

ERIC SCHMIDT: I think of revenue in that way, but I don't think of people in the way.  

DAVID GARRITY: Okay. What I mean is there is a certain amount of hires and a certain amount of people leave the Company, and then at the end of the quarter, there is an ending permanent headcount number.  

ERIC SCHMIDT: Yes. Quite frankly, our attrition rates are, you know, very very de minimus. So you should not bake in any substantial level of attrition into whatever headcount projections you're trying to get to.  

DAVID GARRITY: Okay. So those numbers are going to be pretty close to how many hires there were?  

ERIC SCHMIDT: Yes, quarter-over-quarter, that is exactly right.  

DAVID GARRITY: Okay, great. Thank you very much.  

ERIC SCHMIDT: I want to thank everybody for spending so much time with us. We are obviously very, very pleased with how our fourth quarter went. We're very very confident of the approach we are taking, and we're very much looking forward to a successful 2005.  

With that, I'm very much looking forward to speaking with you in one quarter. Thanks very much to George, Larry and Sergey and the whole team that put this together, David Krane as well. Thank you very much.  

OPERATOR: Once again, ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude today's conference. You may now disconnect.  

[CCBN reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES CCBN ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. ]  

   CO
goog : Google Inc.
   IN
i8395464 : Internet Search Engines | iint : Internet/Online Services
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | gussec : Securities and Exchange Commission | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | ginda : Independent Agencies/Regulatory Bodies | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
FDCH e-Media
   AN
Document FNDW000020050215e121001gt
  


 HD
 Q3  2004 Google Earnings Conference Call - Final  
   WC
9,538 words
   PD
21 October 2004
   SN
FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
(c) Copyright 2004 CCBN and FDCH e-Media.  

   LP
OPERATOR: Good day and welcome everyone to the Google Inc. quarterly earnings conference call. Today's call is being recorded. With us today from the Company are the Chief Executive Officer, Dr. Eric Schmidt; the President of Technology, Mr. Sergey Brin; the President of Products, Mr. Larry Page; the Chief Financial Officer, Mr. George Reyes and the Corporate Communications Director, Mr. David Krane.  

At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Mr. Krane. Please go ahead, sir.  

   TD
DAVID KRANE, CORPORATE COMMUNICATIONS DIRECTOR, GOOGLE: Thank you and good afternoon. Welcome to our first quarterly earnings call as a public company. As you have just heard on the call today are Eric Schmidt, our CEO; George Reyes, Google's Chief Financial Officer; Larry Page, Founder and President of Products and Sergey Brin, Founder and President of Technology.  

This call is being Web cast from the Investor Relations portion of our Web site. Additionally our press release issued a few minutes ago is now posted on our Web site. A replay of this call will be available beginning in a few hours.  

Some of the comments we will make today are forward-looking statements, including statements regarding our operational performance and execution over the long-term, the prospects for growth in online advertising and our leadership position in this industry, our continuing ability to grow and innovate, the focus of our development efforts, our expected traffic growth, the growth patterns of our AdSense network and our Google Web sites, our anticipated levels of stock-based compensation charges, changes in our operating margins over time, our anticipated net income tax benefit for the fourth quarter of 2004, and our future effective tax rate.  

These statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated by these forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include a variety of factors, some of which are beyond Google's control. These forward-looking statements speak as of today, and you should not rely on them as representing Google's views in the future.  

We undertake no obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date they were made. Please refer to our recent SEC filings, including our quarterly report filed on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2004 for a more detailed description of the risk factors that may affect our results. Copies of these documents may be obtained from the SEC or by visiting the Investor Relations portion of our Web site.  

Also please note that certain financial measures we use on this call such as operating income, operating margins, free cash flow and adjusted EBITDA are generally expressed on a non-GAAP basis and, therefore, have been adjusted to exclude certain items such as charges and connections with stock-based compensation and certain non-recurring charges in connection with the settlement of litigation.  

A presentation of GAAP financial information for the quarter ended September 30, 2004 and the reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP financial measures are included either in the substance of this conference or in the financial statements accompanying today's earnings release, which is available on our financial Investor Relations Web site.  

I will now turn the call over to Eric Schmidt.  

ERIC SCHMIDT, CEO, GOOGLE: Well, thank you very much, and I would like to thank everybody for joining us on the call today. I am going to share some introductory remarks, and then George will review our financial results in some more detail. Then after George, we will have Larry who will offer his insights on the business strategy, followed by Sergey who will speak to our work with key partners, and then I will wrap up with specific observations about our performance and then we will move to a Q&A portion of the call.  

I would like to reiterate that we told potential investors from the start that Google is an unconventional company in many ways, and we made it explicitly clear that we expect to deliver the best results and strongest operational performance and the most consistent execution as we focus strictly on the long-term. We remain committed to these principles around running the business, and we believe that our future performance will continue to validate this approach over the long-term.  

Though we are optimized for long run performance, let me be first to say we're very pleased with the short run, in particular our performance on this past quarter. As you are all probably aware of by now from our news release, we have record revenues this quarter. George will share these results with you and illustrate that even since we completed our public offering, our management team remained focused on delivering quality products and services to users worldwide, strong operational performance, fiscal discipline and precise execution.  

I also want to reiterate that we do not plan to give earnings guidance in the traditional sense. Consistent with that, we are not going to be offering future guidance today, but will offer details about the quarter's results and insights about how we run the business.  

Now before I turn this over to George, I want to express our deep appreciation to investors and others who have worked with us and put trust in this unconventional company. George, now let me turn it over to you, and why don't you describe the financial results for the quarter?  

GEORGE REYES, CFO, GOOGLE: Thank you, Eric. My objective for this portion of the call is to help you better understand our performance over the past three months. So let's go ahead and get started.  

Please note whenever we discuss revenues in our conversations, press releases or SEC filings, we are referring to revenue prior to any revenue share payments, that is traffic acquisition costs made to our network members.  

Let's first discuss the highlights for the quarter. We are extremely pleased with the results for the September quarter of 2004. We delivered strong growth in both revenues and profits before non-recurring charges. Revenue in the third quarter increased from 394 million last year to nearly 806 million this year, representing year-over-year growth of 105 percent.  

On a sequential basis, our third-quarter revenue grew 15 percent over the quarter ended June 30th. Because of a material non-recurring charge of 201 million related to the previously disclosed settlement of our warrant and patent disputes with Yahoo!, we are reporting operating income on a GAAP basis in the quarter of $11 million. Operating income before this non-recurring charge was $212 million. This compares to 171 million through this year's second quarter. This represents a sequential increase of 24 percent before this non-recurring charge. On a year-over-year basis, our operating income on a GAAP basis decreased 83 percent from 67 million in the third quarter of 2003. However, before the non-recurring charge, operating income increased by 219 percent. Please note that our reported operating income includes a non-cash charge of 68 million for stock-based compensation in Q3 of 2004 as compared to 75 million in the second quarter and 74 million in Q3 of 2003.  

Net income for the third quarter was 52 million, as compared to 75 billion (ph) for the second quarter. This sequential decline reflects two non-recurring items. The after-tax effect of the non-recurring settlement charge that we just discussed of 119 million and a tax benefit of 46 million related to stock-based compensation charges recognized prior to our IPO. We will spend more time on these items later in the call.  

Net income before these non-recurring items was $125 million. Diluted net income per share for the third quarter was 19 cents on 274.7 million diluted shares outstanding compared to 30 cents for the second quarter on 266.3 million shares outstanding. Diluted net income per share for the third quarter was 45 cents before these non-recurring items. Cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments for the third quarter were nearly 1.9 billion compared to 549 million at the end of the second quarter of 2004. This increase in liquidity is primarily attributable to the proceeds raised in our initial public offering and to a lesser extent to free cash flow generated during Q3 of this year.  

Adjusted EBITDA, and by adjusted we mean EBITDA before the non-cash stock-based compensation charge, the non-recurring settlement and in process R&D, increased by approximately 44 million or 16 percent to 321 million. This is roughly 40 percent of revenues for this quarter from 278 million or roughly 40 percent of revenues in Q2. Capital expenditures for the third quarter totaled 78 million compared to 96 million during this year's second quarter.  

Let's now dive into the details. Let's start with revenues. While we expected to see a summer slowdown, that seasonal effect was muted this year by strong traffic and monetization growth at our Google sites. While we believe that flat revenue between quarters two and three may be the more likely norm, this year we recorded a 15 percent sequential increase.  

On our own Google Web site, our own Google Web sites accounted for 412 million of the total revenue in the quarter, representing 51 percent of total revenue and an increase of 20 percent over Q2. Revenue from the Google Network, those third-party sites that display ads provided by Google, increased to 384 million in Q3 from 346 million in Q2 and represented 48 percent of total revenue. This quarter to quarter growth of 11 percent compares to a sequential increase of 4 percent in Q2 as compared to Q1 of this year.  

While we continue to be very pleased with the growth of our AdSense business and continue to assign new AdSense for Content partners at rapid rates, these are generally smaller than our AdSense for search partners. At this point, we see no reason for this trend to change in the coming quarters.  

On the international front, our international revenues grew to 35 percent of total revenue. This is up from 31 percent last quarter. We continue to be very pleased with the progress we are making on this important front.  

Let's now switch gears and talk about our cost structure. We will begin with cost of revenues. As most of you know, cost of revenues are comprised mainly of traffic acquisition costs, as well as expenses associated with the operation of our data centers, credit card and other transaction fees and amortized expenses associated with purchase and licensed technologies. In the quarter, these costs rose 11 percent to 362 million from 326 million in the previous quarter. Cost of revenues decreased as a percentage of revenues from 46.6 percent in the second quarter to 44.9 percent in the third quarter. Primarily because of proportionately lower advertising revenues from ads on our Google Network member Web sites as compared to Google.com, which had the effect of lowering our traffic acquisition costs as a percentage of revenues.  

TAC, or the revenue shares we paid to our AdSense partners, increased from 277 million last quarter, representing roughly 80 percent of AdSense revenues to 303 million in Q3, representing roughly 79 percent of AdSense revenues. TAC decreased as a percentage of Google Network revenues this quarter because more of our AdSense revenue came from partners with whom we have generally lower rev share obligations.  

Let's now look at our operating expenses. Research and development expenses increased to 57 million or 7.1 percent of revenue, up from 46 million or 6.5 percent of revenues last quarter. This primarily reflects steady growth in our engineering team, the foundation of this Company. Sales and marketing held steady at 8.1 percent of revenue consistent with Q2 results. The absolute growth reflects the natural scaling of these expenses as the Company and our revenues continue to grow globally.  

On a G&A front, costs increased from 26 million to 41 million sequentially or an increase of 59 percent. The primary drivers were the continued buildout of the systems, processes and personnel required to operate a growing public company. We saw healthy gains in the legal, IT and recruiting functions to name a few. In addition, we continued our investment in our payments and billing infrastructure.  

Moving down the P&L to stock-based compensation, stock-based compensation continued to trend downward to 68 million this quarter from 75 million in Q2. As we previously discussed, we expect these charges to decrease in the fourth quarter of 2004 as well as in the years ahead. Nonetheless, the hefty non-cash charges reduce our reported operating profit and make it more difficult to accurately compare our results with companies that do not have similar charges.  

Let' now take a moment to discuss the non-recurring settlement of disputes. As mentioned earlier, this quarter's operating expenses include a onetime non-recurring non-cash charge of $201 million, which was the cost to us recognized in the third quarter of the previously announced settlement of our disputes with Yahoo!. This charge is partially offset by an associated tax benefit that reduced our provision for income taxes and our income tax obligation by $82 million.  

Our operating margin on a GAAP basis was 1.4 percent, down from 24.4 percent last quarter. Excluding the settlement charge of 201 million, our operating margin increased to 26.3 percent, up from 24.4 percent last quarter. The improvement was primarily due to proportionately lower advertising revenue from our Google Network member sites which resulted in lower traffic acquisition costs as a percentage of total revenue. The lower stock-based compensation charges for the quarter also contributed to the improvement.  

While our operating margin before the charge improved quarter to quarter, we stand by our previously issued caution that over time operating margins may decline for a variety of reasons.  

I think it is important to spend a few moments on income taxes. There are three non-recurring items that had a material benefit on either our provision for income taxes reported on our P&L, our income taxes receivable or both. The first item is a reduction to our provision for income taxes of 46 million in the third quarter related to stock-based compensation charges recognized prior to the IPO for unexercised nonqualified stock options. No reductions had been made previously to our provision for income taxes related to these charges, and the associated tax benefit is only now being recognized because of our transition from a private to a public company. As the accounting reflects a change in estimate for our provision for income taxes for the remainder of 2004, we will record an additional reduction to our provision in the fourth quarter related to these pre-IPO charges.  

In addition, as this accounting reflects a timing difference between our book and tax results, we have recorded a deferred tax asset on our balance sheet and not yet against our income tax obligations. Going forward as we continue to recognize stock-based compensation related to these options we will also record a reduction to our provision for income taxes and a deferred tax asset. Once these options are exercised, we will then realize an actual reduction to our income tax obligation.  

The second item is related to the charge we recognized for the settlement of disputes with Yahoo!. This non-cash charge, which was fully deductible for tax purposes in the third quarter, resulted in our recording a reduction to our provision for income taxes on our P&L and a reduction to our tax obligation on our balance sheet of $82 million.  

The third and final item is a reduction to our tax obligations of 52 million as a result of the exercise of warrants. This had no effect on our provision for income taxes in the current period. The net impact of all of this is that we recorded a net income taxes benefit of 37 million on our P&L in the third quarter compared to a $90 million provision and a 53 percent effective tax rate last quarter. We do not expect to recognize a net income taxes benefit on our P&L in the fourth quarter.  

In addition, our income tax receivable increased by 70 million during the quarter to 150 million at the end of September 30th of this year.  

We expect our effective tax rate for the fourth quarter and all of 2004 to be significantly lower than the 53 percent effective tax rate in the second quarter. We also expect our effective tax rate to generally trend lower over the long-term to a rate below 35 percent.  

Having said all of that, let's now switch gears and talk about net income. Net income was 52 million or 6.5 percent of revenue. This margin is down from 11.3 -- the 11.3 percent we realized last quarter, reflecting the after-tax impact of the settlement charge and partially offset by the tax benefit related to certain stock-based compensation recognized prior to the IPO as we have already disclosed and discussed.  

On the liquidity front, our net cash provided by operating activities increased to 238 million for the three months ended September 30th compared to 163 million for the prior quarter, primarily because of increased earnings before non-cash charges. Our net cash provided by operating activity continues to significantly outpace our net income growth.  

Adjusted EBITDA, and by adjusted EBITDA we mean EBITDA before the non-cash stock-based compensation charge, the non-recurring settlement charge and in process R&D, is another alternative measure of liquidity to GAAP net provided by operating activities. Adjusted EBITDA increased by approximately 44 million or 16 percent to 321 million, or roughly 40 percent of revenues in Q3, from 278 million, or again roughly 40 percent of revenues in Q2. The reconciliation of adjusted EBITDA to the GAAP measure of liquidity net cash provided by operating activities is set forth in our earnings release which was released earlier today. A copy of this release is posted on our Web site.  

Free cash flow, an alternative measure of liquidity to GAAP net cash provided by operating activities, is defined as cash provided by our operating activities less capital expenditures. Our free cash flow increased to 161 million for the three months ended September 30th compared to 66 million for the prior quarter. Capital expenditures were 78 million for the three months ended September 30th compared to 96 million for the prior quarter. Our capital expenditure level primarily reflects investments in our global infrastructure. We view these investments as a critical component of our strategy as ultimately the quality and reliability of our services are key competitive differentiators.  

Thanks to the successful completion of our IPO, our cash, cash equivalent and short-term investment balances were nearly 1.9 billion at September 30th, up from 549 million at the end of last quarter. The increase was primarily attributable to our net proceeds from the offering of approximately 1.2 billion as well as a result of the reasons previously discussed.  

Days sales outstanding increased to 26 days from 25 days last quarter, and on a worldwide basis, we grew headcount to 2668 full-time employees as of September 30th as compared with 2292 employees as of June 30. At just under 1.3 million on an annualized basis, our revenue per employee far outpaces industry averages.  

And with that, I would like to turn the call over to Larry.  

LARRY PAGE, PRESIDENT, PRODUCTS, GOOGLE: Thank you, George. I would like to share with you a little bit about our business strategy. At the highest levels, Google's business strategy is about identifying and solving problems that matter to many people on a global scale. The (inaudible) business with our core strengths in search and advertising use our successes there to spark innovation in new areas. It is clear to us that we have only begun work on our mission to organize the world's information to make it universally accessible and useful.  

Only a fraction of the world's information is indexed on our computers. We are perpetually working for ways to grow our indexes, develop new technologies for collecting and serving up the world's information, and making it useful to our users. Our technologies will significantly expand the definition of search and the scope and scale of our business. Examples of that in the current quarter are our recent expansion of the Google Print program, which makes off-line book content searchable, and the Google SMS service, which allows U.S. cellphone users to conduct Google searches on the go.  

Last week we announced Google Desktop Search, which allows users to search their e-mail files, Web history and shops. This new application makes it possible for users to find information on their computers as fast as easily as they can search the Web with Google. Making users computers searchable, this new product puts all their information easily within reach, freeing them from having to organize their data manually.  

While some have expressed concern about our reliance on online advertising, we believe this market is very large and that we are at its infancy. Online advertising is becoming a larger and larger proportion of global advertising spending and technology innovations will make online advertising only more effective and desirable over time. This is due to innovations like continually increased relevancy of ads for users and bringing greater cost efficiencies and pricing for advertisers. We are a leader in those innovations.  

Recently we began testing image ads in Google image search for more brand focus but still relevant advertising. Google has a rapidly growing broad and diverse base of advertisers. During the past quarter, our top 50 advertisers represented only 13 percent of our gross.  

To support our growth and innovation, Google has built and continues to expand our hardware infrastructure. We are known for experimenting and working on large-scale engineering projects. The size of our infrastructure and our reputation for innovation attracts the world's greatest engineering talent to Google. With these smartest people and the most powerful technology engine, Google has the means to innovate rapidly and with great scale. This infrastructure and talent combination is a competitive advantage to Google across all of our existing products and for the development of new products.  

Let me tell you more about how we manage product development. 70 percent of our engineering resources are focused on our core search and advertising products. We will continue to make these better. Also, a core focus for us is continued international enhancement in operation of these products. 30 percent of our resources are devoting to emerging businesses. Emerging businesses at Google include several of our products and services outside of search and advertising such as GMail, Blogger and the newly acquired Picasa. We think we're well-positioned for a long bright future with these areas of focus.  

I would now like to pass the call to Sergey.  

SERGEY BRIN, PRESIDENT, TECHNOLOGY, GOOGLE: Thank you very much, Larry. I want to talk a little bit about our advertising networks and partners. One of Google strengths as we've grown rapidly in a short bit of time is the strength of our advertising network. The effectiveness of our technology and the breadth of our advertisers have enabled us to secure deals with a diverse set of partners.  

Just this week in the current quarter, we won a syndication partnership with AOL Europe. This is an exciting win for us and furthers our presence and ability to serve advertisers in Europe. New partners in Q3 included Tiscali in Europe and Rakwatan (ph) in Japan.  

In addition, we were able to steer renewals with a number of existing partners. For example, in Q3 AdSense renewals included Ask Jeeves in the UK and the U.S. and Fujitsu in Japan. We continue to have great results in renewing existing business.  

One of the principal reasons we are having success with new business and renewals is the strength of our monetization. Google's programs bring great financial rewards to our partners because of our technology and advertiser breadth. As a result of the success of our partnerships, we have been able to offer even more targeted leads to our advertisers.  

We also earned important new business with our Google Search Appliance, National Geographic and Abbott Laboratories are just two examples from Q3, and we just announced this week the availability of the Google Search Appliance in Europe with key customers already deploying it including Morgan Stanley, the British Library and the United Nations.  

As you can see, our business is increasingly global. Larry and I just returned from a two-week trip around the world during which we opened our new European headquarters in Dublin and visited a number of countries in Asia. We see great opportunities all around the globe. As George said earlier, our international operations generated 35 percent of total revenue this quarter --in Q3 -- up from 31 percent last quarter. Our long-term future is very exciting.  

Eric, I would like to hand the call back to you.  

ERIC SCHMIDT: Well, thank you very much, George, Larry and Sergey. Before turning over to the Q&A session of the call, I would like to close by reviewing several of our key business accomplishments last quarter. In September we announced Google Alerts, which combined Google News Alerts and Google Web Alerts and brought a better easier to use interface. This product enables users to easily track news and other information on the Web about topics important to them. And we improved Google Local Service with enhanced features and a better user experience.  

Now we expanded in international markets and increased service to customers all over the globe. We launched localized versions of Google News in China, Japan and Korea. We launched a localized version of Google Local in Canada. We've released earlier this month in the UK a localized version of Froogle. We surpassed 100 Google domains, including new domains in countries such as Norway and Kenya. We provided greater international support for our publishers by releasing AdSense for Content in simplified Chinese, Korean, Turkish and Polish.  

We also made an important acquisition in Q3 when we acquired a company called Picasa, which enables users to manage and easily share additional photographs. That new service has proven to be very very popular with our users, and the Picasa product was already one of the leading photo management software packages before they joined Google.  

Now the numbers presented by George, the strategy explained by Larry, Sergey's description of our business deal activity and this summary of some of our business accomplishments over the last quarter demonstrate that this Company is delivering on its commitments, the commitments that we made when we announced our intention to go public. We are focused on the long-term. We're committed to our users. We are executing well and delivering results. And this is how we intend to continue to perform.  

So with that, I am eager and interested to hear your questions. Please note, as there are quite a few people on the call, we will take your questions one at time, and if after giving everyone a chance there is time, we will come back for follow-up questions of course. Please help us with this process by truly limiting yourself to one single question.  

And with that, operator, shall we began?  

OPERATOR: (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS). Anthony Noto. Goldman Sachs.  

ANTHONY NOTO, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Thank you very much. I was wondering if you could share with us two underlying metrics for the business -- volume of leads generated in the quarter and then price per lead?  

ERIC SCHMIDT: This is Eric. Thank you for that question. We have generally not given the specific numbers around the formulas in terms of both CPC, CPM etc. because our system is more complicated than that, and it uses those as inputs, but it is not a full predictor for how the business is growing. So in general we have not been releasing that information.  

ANTHONY NOTO: Is there some metric that you would be willing to share with us that would relieve to that level of activity per user?  

ERIC SCHMIDT: In general we have preferred not to. We believe that a more accurate model is aggregate revenue growth. If you look at it on a per user basis because of the complexity of our model and because of all the different kinds of products we have, it is difficult to come up with a single metric that is an accurate predictor that would not mislead people.  

OPERATOR: Lanny Baker. Citigroup.  

LANNY BAKER, ANALYST, SMITH BARNEY: The capital expenditures relative to the revenue level came down this quarter, George, from where they have been in prior quarters. Did something happen differently? Was there an inflection point hit, passed in the quarter that changed that number?  

GEORGE REYES: You know, there was really nothing dramatic about the slowdown in the capital expenditures. We're trying to drive more efficiency and better capital utilization, but I would not read some forward-looking trend into this thing.  

ERIC SCHMIDT: Let me add that we are continuing to invest in capital. We believe that the capital investments we're making are incredibly strategic as both a competitive weapon and they enable a new generation of products that are not yet released, and we've indicated that capital expenses should increase over the long-term.  

OPERATOR: Heath Terry. Credit Suisse First Boston.  

HEATH TERRY, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE FIRST BOSTON: You've got several products like Froogle and GMail that are still in the beta stage, some that have been there for a while. Can you talk to us how about those products are progressing, to what level they are actually contributing to revenue at this point, and how you expect those to develop over the next 12 months or so as we hopefully see some of those come out of beta?  

ERIC SCHMIDT: Well, if you take a look at the two that you named, Froogle is a much more mature product than GMail. Froogle contributes in the advertising network model that you are well aware of. And more importantly, with Froogle, we've been able to use the technology that Froogle uses across our index in embedding it in our underlying understanding of information.  

So the future of Froogle is, in fact, much more integration with our core businesses and so forth. So it is a strong component, and it will morph and change in more and more features that are specific to that but also touch all of the rest of the site.  

In GMail's case it's only been out for five or six months. It is a tremendous success. It is still very early in its development. We have a very very long list of product features, so I would say it's much earlier. Our products tend to stay in beta for a very long time. Both have been incredibly successful and will have a very very strong future here.  

HEATH TERRY: And can you give us an idea to what degree those two, as well as maybe some of the other ones that you consider important like Blogger, are contributing to revenue at this point?  

ERIC SCHMIDT: It is difficult to give you a specific percentage because we monetize Google across all of the properties, and the network effect to the contribution from the various components is very hard to measure. So in general the new sites are a small percentage if you measure it that way. In other words, not a material number.  

On the other hand, they are strategic because the people who use them tend to be much more likely to use the advertising services. They are much more sophisticated users. They tend to use the site a great deal more.  

So one of the approaches that we take is that we bring these products on with an understanding that they increase total site loyalty, total brand loyalty, total usage of the Company.  

OPERATOR: Marianne Wolk. Susquehanna.  

MARIANNE WOLK, ANALYST, SUSQUEHANNA: I want to try that maybe a different way. I was just wondering how fast you think the advertising market for pure search grew q-over-q this quarter? Clearly it did not grow fast as you did. I'm just trying to get a sense of how much you are benefiting from new products like AdSense and Froogle and the rest?  

ERIC SCHMIDT: We should not speculate on the overall advertising market. That is for others to study. What we do know is that the amount of demand that exists for the kind of advertising we do is really quite large and in many ways unmet. The evidence that we have from customers is that this is not a marketing expense, but rather a cost of sales expense.  

And what they are doing is they are evaluating as they get into our systems whether it is better to continue their traditional solid mechanisms we use ourselves. My own opinion is that all of the folks that are in the kind of targeted industry that we are in are benefiting from this cost shifting.  

It's very difficult to define that market. We believe it is much much larger than where Google is today. In Larry's comments, he talked about we are at the beginning of the information markets, and it's also the case that we're at the beginning of the penetration of the site of this market. There is no evidence of any -- to our visibility of any short-term limits.  

MARIANNE WOLK: Just a quick clarification. Earlier you mentioned Froogle and GMail were still young products and not a significant portion of revenue. Can you talk about AdSense? Is that now -- it's a much more mature offering -- is it more significant and maybe a material contributor?  

ERIC SCHMIDT: Are you referring to -- AdSense is approximately half of the revenues. Perhaps you are referring to --  

MARIANNE WOLK: I'm talking about the content.  

ERIC SCHMIDT: AdSense for Content. AdSense is approximately half of revenues of the Company. It is an incredible success. The Google Network is in amazing amazing partnerships that the Company has been able to articulate.  

MARIANNE WOLK: The Content portion?  

ERIC SCHMIDT: The Content part is now becoming a significant portion of that growing from a small base. Of course, we started that about a year ago.  

OPERATOR: Krista Sober (ph).  

KRISTA SOBER, ANALYST: Just a couple of questions. First I really enjoyed the Desktop Search, but I was wondering if you could give us some clue as to how you might decide to begin monetizing that? And then just quickly on the display advertising front, I was just wondering if you plan to distribute that beyond just image search to the broader Google property?  

ERIC SCHMIDT: On the Desktop Search, our general approach as a company has been to be very end user focused. The Company is built with an end-user bias. So we prefer to bring out exceptional end-user products or ones if we think will be exceptional and then we test and test and test through this beta process, and as they become more and more successful, we look for opportunities to monetize them. So the monetization occurs after the product has become in a typical case very successful from an end user perspective. Otherwise, why spend all that time for a product which does not have the impact, if you follow my reasoning.  

So we have released our SubSearch. The feedback is extraordinarily positive in the last week, and we're looking forward to a great success there and we will deal with that question as it emerges.  

Larry, do you want to talk a little bit about the display ads question?  

LARRY PAGE: Actually I was just going to add a little bit on the Desktop Search. It is well integrated with Google. So as people use Desktop Search, it does result in a search advertising revenue for Google itself as well.  

ERIC SCHMIDT: And on the Image Ads, today the Image Ads are an important new product. We are evaluating how far we can take that. Currently it is a small component of our business, but we think it has a very exciting future.  

KRISTA SOBER: Do you have any insight on just the usage from a category basis or if there is any behavioral targeting involved?  

ERIC SCHMIDT: We do targeting that is specific to the keyword use, and I think your suggestions are interesting product suggestions, but we're not doing those today.  

OPERATOR: Douglas Anmuth. Lehman Brothers.  

DOUGLAS ANMUTH, ANALYST, LEHMAN BROTHERS: Thank you. I just wanted to follow-up on the CapEx question from earlier. Can you give us a sense of how much of the current infrastructure capacity is currently being used and how you would expect that to trend going forward given that I think you have pretty high redundancy at the moment?  

GEORGE REYES: Yes, this is George. So the answer is, it has historically been an area of investment and substantial investment, and we really believe that we are going to continue to invest and probably close to these rates. We think it creates a tremendous amount of competitive advantage going forward as we deploy new services, and all I am trying to do is make sure that before we keep adding and deploying more CapEx we're fully utilizing what we have. But I think you should as you look forward you should expect us to continue to invest heavily in this area.  

ERIC SCHMIDT: And the utilization, the current utilization, is extremely high. In fact, we are busy building out that infrastructure for both the current growth as well as future products.  

OPERATOR: Jordan Rohan. SoundView.  

JORDAN ROHAN, ANALYST, SOUNDVIEW: I hate to start my first question on something rudimentary and basic, but I'm trying to get to what I call a clean EPS number. That would be -- I know this isn't official GAAP -- but adjusted to add back the stock compensation charges as well as add back any non-recurring items, I think the 45 cent number that you quoted on the conference call, which ties to 125 million in net income, actually includes the 68 million in stock comp. That would potentially get you to a 70 cent EPS number if you add that back. Am I correct in this assumption?  

GEORGE REYES: You are precisely correct in your assumption.  

OPERATOR: Mark Mahaney. American Technology Research.  

MARK MAHANEY, ANALYST, AMERICAN TECHNOLOGY RESEARCH: I think I will be the first to say this, congratulations on a great quarter out of the box. Two questions. First, international revenue was really impressive. I think it grew something like 145 percent year-over-year. Any color on which regions in particular contributed to that?  

And secondly on the TAC rate coming down to 79 percent, I don't know if you will comment on this, but any color on what is a reasonable expectation going forward? Is that a level to think about going forward?  

GEORGE REYES: This is George. On the TAC question, it really is sort of a seasonal sort of thing. You will see TAC sort of bounce around 2 to 3 points in terms of variations per quarter. And really the biggest driver of it tends to be the mix of Google owned Web site revenue versus partner revenue. So that should -- that range should sort of bounce around in a very tight narrow band.  

LARRY PAGE: Just one other comment on that. We really believe that we want to send the majority of the revenue to the publishers for example in our AdSense for Content network because we want to have a fair and sustainable business. We want them to feel like they are getting the good value for running our adds on their system.  

MARK MAHANEY: Any color on the international? Any particular areas of strength there, or is it pretty broad-based?  

LARRY PAGE: We're just seeing growth internationally as there is more Internet penetration, as well as our business is becoming more sophisticated internationally with the opening of a number of international offices, increased sales and R&D presence.  

OPERATOR: Mary Meeker. Morgan Stanley.  

MARY MEEKER, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Good question. Sergey, you went through your some of your ad wins, and one of the areas of focus for the company has been on improving the tools for advertisers. Could you talk about some of the features that your customers are most excited about and how that is helping them improve their ROI or their business on Google?  

And secondly, can you talk about whether you are showing some of your advertisers the Image Ad efforts and what the reaction is to that if you are, and also what their reaction is to the GMail business? Thanks.  

SERGEY BRIN: Yes, let me just speak quickly. So I spoke actually both about partners and advertisers. The partners are very excited because we are generating more and more monetization, and we believe that we are really leading the field in that room. The advertisers have been benefiting from several things.  

First of all, just improved targeting. That is completely automatic, and they don't have to do a thing, and we've made several significant improvements in that over the past quarter. We also have started offering a little bit earlier than that, the conversion tracking, which is an important way that they can track their ROI even more carefully. That is why it is a very easy business decision for them to spend more on Google as we get more inventory available.  

On the Image Ads, those are fairly broadly available, though we are (inaudible) advertisers. Though we are only starting to get more and more publishers and more space for them, and I think it is something that is going to need to evolve because there are a number of technological features that need to be added to that system.  

MARY MEEKER: Any thoughts on the GMail reaction?  

SERGEY BRIN: The GMail reaction, there was a lot of mixed press about it initially, but after we clarified the functionality and also we have demonstrated a lot of the ability to convert. I should mention by the way just one of the other additional features for advertisers. We added, not in the past quarter but a little bit earlier, was that we automatically adjusted our bids based on the overall performance of sites within our AdSense network. And, therefore, they can be confident that when we deploy their adds more and more broadly that their bids are going to be adjusted based on the performance of the individual sites.  

OPERATOR: Scott Kesler. Standard & Poor's Equity Research.  

SCOTT KESLER, ANALYST, STANDARD & POOR'S EQUITY RESEARCH: Thank you very much. I was wondering if you could talk about why we saw an acceleration in revenues from Google Web sites in the third quarter? The other question is a housekeeping one. If you could reiterate what you stated was CapEx for the third quarter?  

ERIC SCHMIDT: With respect to the first question, acceleration of revenue, we continually make improvements to our advertising system that are both visible to the advertisers, as well as internal systems for better quality.  

It turns out that the more accurate our ads are the higher the revenue is because of the nature of how our auction-based system works. So those improvements were certainly one of the contributors to that. Plus general traffic growth and the general good performance by all of the properties.  

SCOTT KESLER: Okay. And the CapEx for the quarter again?  

GEORGE REYES: CapEx for the quarter was $76.6 million -- $77.6 million.  

OPERATOR: Jeetil Patel. Deutsche Bank Securities.  

JEETIL PATEL, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: A quick question on -- I hate to simplify it this way -- but if you look at AdWords it really does focus on direct response direct marketing out there, and it seems like Image Ads seems to be a bit of a different type of solution in the marketplace. How do you think branded or display advertising fits into the kind of game plan? Do you think it can co-exist with the direct response or direct marketing PPC-based model that you have today? It seems like Image Ads seems to be headed in that direction. Any commentary around that?  

LARRY PAGE: This is Larry. That's a great question. I think that what you're seeing with our foray into Image Ads and other products is that we are serving a larger and larger base of advertisers and users. And search advertising has been incredibly effective in basically giving people things that they want to click on, they want to be interested in.  

And as we expand out a little bit, we are still, for example, with Image Ads still targeting those ads well. But they are somewhat less targeted than normal ads that we run. But still targeted. And, therefore, because they have higher production costs and so on, it is just necessary for them to be a little bit less targeted.  

But they are also more interesting because they are images, and you know they are good for branding and for other things. So I think you will see us introduce a number of different products in a number of ways of satisfying both our end-users and our advertisers with very different kinds of products, different kinds of means of long branding, while still keeping advertising more relevant and useful for users than what people traditionally think of in us.  

JEETIL PATEL: Do you think internally from a salesforce selling standpoint, as well as creative standpoint, it requires a different type of skillset, or is it something that is comparable to what you have today?  

LARRY PAGE: I think it is really a natural transition for us. In fact, we're talking with -- we have a significant direct sales force. We are in contact with all the major advertisers already. But I think it's very much in line with our skillset.  

OPERATOR: Mark Rowen. Prudential.  

MARK ROWEN, ANALYST, PRUDENTIAL: You have been very careful about the user experience. And now that you have more advertising on your search pages than you used to have, are you seeing any signs at all that users are getting fatigued with sponsored links? And if so or if not, how do you measure that? Do you look at click-through rates as the prime way to measure that? And can you give us a sense of trend on click-through rates?  

ERIC SCHMIDT: Mark, thank you. This is Eric. We have not seen any of the concerns that you raised so far. We monitor this fairly carefully. We make sure, for example, that the majority of our pages do not have advertisers on them, and we work very very hard to make sure that the advertisements are very targeted. So there is no evidence that there is any kind of fatigue going on, and there is a lot of evidence that people find this valuable.  

From the beginning of the founding of the Company, we understood that the advertising model properly searched, properly targeted, had real value to the end-users as opposed to untargeted ads, and the companies are built on that basic premise. We just don't do untargeted ads.  

So with respect to the economics of them, we have generally seen improvements in revenue with respect to advertising. Sometimes it's from better click-through rates. Sometimes it is from more advertisers. Sometimes it's from more international distribution. So it could be one or the other. But all three of those contribute to good performance.  

We have also put in place much more stringent requirements for our ads. There is typically a problem where people want to advertise ads which are not as targeted as we want them to, so we reject them. We have also tightened our categories for who we will work with, and we think that improves the overall quality of the end-user experience, which is how we run the company.  

OPERATOR: Bill Lennon, WR Hambrecht.  

BILL LENNON, ANALYST, WR HAMBRECHT: Could you give us a sense for how we should think about a blend between Google on-site revenue versus network? Do you have some sort of internal target trendline going to change over the next couple of quarters?  

And then a second part, you added 376 people during the quarter. Is that a good number for the next couple of quarters, or do you consider that a high, low versus where you will be?  

ERIC SCHMIDT: With respect to future comments like the headcount issue, I think we would prefer not to just assess that. We are clearly going to continue hiring. The Company is growing. We are very pleased with that.  

With respect to the blend of Google versus network, both are growing. We don't have internal targets that say it should be one or the other. We view these as both businesses that both coexist but are also somewhat separate, and we have teams that go out to get more Google.com advertisers. We also have teams that go out to get more advertising partners in the AdSense sense. So both are growing. There is no particular prediction within the model, within the company of how we go look for that.  

OPERATOR: Youssef Squali. Jefferies & Co.  

YOUSSEF SQUALI, ANALYST, JEFFERIES & CO.: Just a follow-up to that. Within the 11 percent sequential growth that you just showed on the network, is there a way to figure out what the same-store comparison is versus growth coming from the additional partners that you may have signed up during the quarter?  

And secondary, how do you think about stock options going forward? They have been a big part of the attraction in retaining employees. How should we be thinking about it going forward?  

ERIC SCHMIDT: George, why don't you take the last question fast?  

GEORGE REYES: Okay. On the stock option question, we are clearly giving this a whole lot of thought, and the real core issue has us focused around retention of the great sort of organization that we have put in place and how we keep these folks engaged and all that. So we are giving it a lot of thought, and of course, we are looking at many of the same instruments and programs that most companies are, and they include not only straight stock options but restricted stock units and SARS and things of the like, as well as very levered cash compensation that is very very heavily geared and skewed by individual performance.  

YOUSSEF SQUALI: Is there a level of dilution that is acceptable or unacceptable to you?  

GEORGE REYES: Yes. We are very very judicious at policing dilution, and we are going to be very very lean and very deliberate in our equity awards. So we are going to be good boys and girls about this whole thing.  

ERIC SCHMIDT: With respect to the question about same-store and advertising network, Sergey, do you want to comment on that? You have looked at that question?  

SERGEY BRIN: Yes, and we have seen both kinds of growth. The existing partners certainly tend to grow, and also we add partners. So it is kind of the sum of a step function and a generally smooth growth function.  

YOUSSEF SQUALI: So they are both growing more or less at the same time?  

SERGEY BRIN: Yes. And I don't have a breakout of what is responsible for more. But there is a seasonality to the existing deals. You know they have similar seasonality patterns to us.  

OPERATOR: Bob Peck. Bear Stearns.  

BOB PECK, ANALYST, BEAR STEARNS: Taking a step back here, I wanted to ask more of a bigger picture question. How do you see the involvement of Google over time towards a portal maybe type of platform, maybe incorporating something such as a travel part of it, something called a Troggle or maybe going to (inaudible) and doing a G-browser? Something to that effect. Where should we sort of think about this going, and how should we sort of bake this into our model, the overall involvement of Google?  

ERIC SCHMIDT: Well, Bob, we had not thought about the name Troggle, but it is an interesting idea. In the first place we have excellent relationships with these travel partners. So we have no particular intention of going after that.  

The model that we use is actually a little bit different than any of the other companies that people have studied. We are very much not a portal. We very much do not have a portal approach. We look at each piece of what an end-user may need in this new emergent online world, and we try to build very much the best one. Occasionally buy one of the best ones, but more often we try to build it.  

And as we develop end-users and once we build an extraordinary piece of technology with great user following, then we deal with its integration. We deal with how we link them together.  

So we don't -- we explicitly are not planning on doing the kinds of things you suggested in the premise of your question. Instead, we look at it on a per user need basis, and then we look for points of integration after these points have been satisfied.  

Google defines itself as a company as trying to solve problems that affect a lot of people on a global scale. So we look for opportunities -- GMail being the most recent large-scale example -- where we saw an opportunity to solve a problem that had been partially viewed as a mature industry in a new and different way. And that is what we pride ourselves on and we intend to continue that. So we are not going to announce our portal strategy because we are not going to do that. We are going to look on a per case basis, and you will see us evolve this model as we get better and better in understanding worldwide user needs.  

So with that, I wanted to make sure that you all know how much we appreciate the time you all have spent covering us, following us. We appreciate your support. We appreciate the commitment that you all have made. And if you have feedback for us on how we can improve our conference call or communications with this very very important community, please let one of us know.  

So with that, thank you very much for spending so much time with us, and we will look forward to seeing you both in the interim and three months from now. Thank you very much.  

OPERATOR: This does conclude today's conference call. We appreciate your participation. You may disconnect at this time.  

[CCBN reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES CCBN ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. ]  

   CO
goog : Google Inc.
   IN
i8395464 : Internet Search Engines | iint : Internet/Online Services
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | gussec : Securities and Exchange Commission | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | ginda : Independent Agencies/Regulatory Bodies | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
FDCH e-Media
   AN
Document FNDW000020041104e0al002ng
  
Search Summary

 Text
rst=fndw and (hd=q1 or hd=q2 or hd=q3 or hd=q4) not hd=event and co=googl
   Date
All Dates
   Source
All Sources
   Author
All Authors
   Company
All Companies
   Subject
All Subjects
   Industry
All Industries
   Region
All Regions
   Language
English
   Results Found
54
   Timestamp
6 December 2016 7:53 AM GMT
  
