 
•	 Q1 2017 Procter & Gamble Co Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q4 2016 Procter & Gamble Co Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q3 2016 Procter & Gamble Co Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q2 2016 Procter & Gamble Co Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q1 2016 Procter & Gamble Co Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q4 2015 Procter & Gamble Co Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q3 2015 Procter & Gamble Co Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q2 2015 Procter & Gamble Co Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q1 2015 Procter & Gamble Co Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q4 2014 Procter & Gamble Co Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q3 2014 The Procter & Gamble Company Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q2 2014 The Procter & Gamble Company Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q1 2014 The Procter & Gamble Company Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q4 2013 The Procter & Gamble Company Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q3 2013 The Procter & Gamble Company Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q2 2013 The Procter & Gamble Company Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q1 2013 The Procter & Gamble Company Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q4 2012 The Procter & Gamble Company Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q3 2012 The Procter & Gamble Company Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q2 2012 The Procter & Gamble Company Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q1 2012 Procter & Gamble Co Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q4 2011 Procter & Gamble Co Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q3 2011 Procter & Gamble Co Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q2 2011 Procter & Gamble Company Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q1 2011 Procter & Gamble Company Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q4 2010 Procter & Gamble Company Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q3 2010 Procter & Gamble Company Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q2 2010 Procter & Gamble Company Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q1 2010 Procter & Gamble Company Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q4 2009 Procter & Gamble Company Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q3 2009 Procter & Gamble Company Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q2 2009 Procter & Gamble Company Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q1 2009 Procter & Gamble Company Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q4 2008 Procter & Gamble Company Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q3 2008 Procter & Gamble Company Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q3 2005 Procter & Gamble Company Earnings Conference Call - Final  
•	 Q2 2005 Procter & Gamble Company Earnings Conference Call - Final  
•	 Q1 2005 Procter & Gamble Company Earnings Conference Call - Final  
•	 Q4 2004 Procter & Gamble Company Earnings Conference Call - Final  
•	 Q3 2004 Procter & Gamble Company Earnings Conference Call - Final  
•	 Q2 2004 Procter & Gamble Company Earnings Conference Call - Final  
•	 Q1 2004 Procter & Gamble Company Earnings Conference Call - Final  
•	 Q4 2003 Procter & Gamble Company Earnings Conference Call - Final  
•	  Q2 2003 Procter & Gamble Company Earnings Conference Call - Final 
•	  Q3 2002 Procter & Gamble Company Earnings Conference Call - Final 
•	  Abstract of Q3 2002 Procter & Gamble Company Earnings Conference Call - Final 


 HD
 Q1  2017  Procter  & Gamble Co Earnings Call - Final
   WC
9,653 words
   PD
25 October 2016
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©016 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved. 

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good morning and welcome to Procter & Gamble's quarter-end conference call. P&G would like to remind you that today's discussion will include a number of forward-looking statements. If you will refer to P&G's most recent 10-K 10-Q and 8-K reports, you'll see a discussion of factors that could cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from these projections.

   TD
Also, as required by regulation G, Procter & Gamble needs to make you aware that during the discussion, the company will make a number of references to non-GAAP and other financial measures. Procter & Gamble believes these measures provide investors with useful information on the underlying growth trends of the business and has posted on its website, www.pg.com a full reconciliation of non-GAAP and other financial measures.

Now I'll turn the call over to P&G's Chief Financial Officer, Jon Moeller

JON MOELLER, CFO, PROCTER & GAMBLE CO: Good morning. I am going to be relatively brief today. Our results a fairly straightforward. And we're together soon for analyst day, when we will go into much more detail on our progress and plans.

Our first-quarter results marked a good start to the new fiscal, though work and opportunity remain. One of our key priorities has been to accelerate top-line growth. Organic sales for the quarter grew 3%. This includes about a 1 point drag from the combination of the rationalization and strengthening of work we are doing within the ongoing portfolio. And the impact of reduced finish product sales to our [Benefield and subsidiaries].

Top-line growth was broad-based across categories and across markets. Organic sales growth in the US progressed from 1% in the first half of last fiscal year, to 2% in the second half, to 3% in the quarter we just completed. Growth in China minus 8% to minus 2% to plus 2% over those same time periods.

We have been making sequential progress in each of our largest categories. Baby Care minus 2% flat to plus 2%. Grooming plus 2% to plus 3% to plus 3%. Fabric Care plus 1% plus 1% to plus 5%. And Hair Care minus 1% to flat to plus 2%.

[Last] September organic sales grew in each reporting segment and in all 10 product categories. [Still], as l said before work and opportunity remain. Hair Care and Baby Care, two of our largest categories, were both up 2% but below the rates of market growth in these categories. These businesses, along with the Grooming business in the US represent multiple opportunities for further top-line acceleration.

Organic sales grew in each region and in a nine of the 10 largest markets. Hereto, opportunities remain. Sales in the UK, which continues to be very challenging highly promotional market were down 2%. Organic sales in China and Russia were both up 2%, but again, below the pace of market growth. So, in summary, progress with more work to do.

Sales growth in the quarter was volume driven. Organic volume was up 3%. Pricing and mix were each essentially neutral for organic sales growth. All-in, sales for the Company were in line with the prior-year, including a three point headwind from foreign exchange.

As we move forward, progress will not come in a straight line. There will be quarter-to-quarter volatility. Comps will get more difficult. We need to manage significant geopolitical and economic volatility in markets like Egypt, Nigeria, Argentina, even the Philippines. And of course, our competition is not standing still. We still have work remaining and some categories and markets to get our brands back to market levels of growth. These opportunities needed to be addressed category by category, market by market, channel by channel. We're after it, but it won't happen overnight.

Moving to the bottom line, quarter earnings per share were $1.03, up 5% versus the prior year. Foreign-exchange had a negative 7 point headwind on the first-quarter earnings. On a constant currency basis, core earnings per share were up 12%. Core gross margin increased 50 basis points versus the prior year. On a constant currency basis, core gross margin was up 130 basis points. Including 190 basis points of productivity improvement.

Commodities were a modest [hurt to gross] margin in the quarter. Feedstock costs for propylene, ethylene, and tropical oils are up as much as mid-teens, since we set our initial budgets for the year.

Wage inflation is also an increasing challenge in many developing markets. Productivity improvement contributed 270 basis points of operating margin benefit. We reinvested a significant portion of those savings in product and packaging innovation, media reach and continuity, sampling, R&D, sales coverage, and targeted consumer value adjustments in order to accelerate our top-line growth. Core operating margin as a result, was up 20 basis points for the quarter. On a constant currency basis, core operating margin was up 120 basis points.

The core effective tax rate was 23%, about a point below last year's first-quarter level. This includes the adoption of new accounting standards for share-based compensation, which reduced the quarterly tax rate by about 3 points. About $0.04 per share benefit to core earnings per share. The impact on the balance of the quarter [is] this fiscal year from this accounting change is expected to be minimal. But fiscal year impact of this change was assumed in our initial guidance for the year.

All in, GAAP earnings per share were $0.96 for the quarter, also up 5% versus the prior year. We generated $2.3 billion in free cash flow, with 85% free cash flow productivity. Returning $2.9 billion to shareowners, $1.9 billion in dividends, and $1 billion in share repurchase.

Our share repurchase flexibly was limited in the first quarter due to trading restrictions related to the Coty transaction. The day after the quarter ended on October 1, we reached a very important milestone in our portfolio transformation program. Closing the beauty transaction with Coty. This marks the completion of the most significant portfolio transformation in P&G's history.

We have created value for shareowners every step of the way. Including over $4 billion versus our keep price in the beauty deal.

While we will be supporting transition efforts for some time, we can now begin focusing our efforts on the 10 core categories we identified two years ago. The market in each of these 10 core categories is large, and is growing between 1% and 7% per year. These are structurally attractive categories where P&G holds leading market positions.

Our businesses in these categories have historically grown sales a point faster than the Company. And held margins that are 2 points higher than the Company average. They leverage P&G core strengths of consumer understanding, innovation, branding and go to market and benefit from the Company's scale.

Consumers use these categories on a frequent basis. Typically daily. Purchase choice is driven more by product performance against a clear consumer need or a job to be done than by self-expression or fashion trends. These categories lend themselves to innovation, which creates noticeable superiority.

We'll compete within these categories, from the top of the market building down across middle-priced tiers that are profitable and growing. We will not compete in the lowest price tiers which are generally commoditized where no money is made. We will however, serve cash constrained consumers with smaller, more affordable pack sizes requiring less cash outlay per purchase.

We are in the midst, as you know, of exiting unprofitable commoditizing price tiers, forms, and segments, enabling us to focus our resources on forms and segments that are profitable and growing. Our objective for the new 10 Category Company it's very clear. Balance, top, and bottom line growth but delivers total shareholder return that places P&G consistently in the top third of our peer group.

I've spoke earlier about the reacceleration of our top-line. And we will spend more time on this on analyst day. This is critically important. But productivity improvement in cost savings are also a necessity in achieving our TSR objective. They provide fuel for investment and innovation, advertising, sales coverage, trial and sampling to grow our brands and grow our categories and build margin.

Top and bottom line growth are not separate endeavors. They reinforce and fuel each other. They're part of the same echo system. They live together and depend on each other, they can't be separated. Last fiscal year, we completed our first five-year productivity improvement program, accelerating exceeding each of our cost savings in [aroma] reduction objectives.

We saved over $7 billion in cost of goods sold. We've reduced manufacturing enrollment by 22% over the last four years. This includes new staffing necessary to support capacity additions. On a same site basis, manufacturing enrollment was down 27% through last fiscal with additional progress planned this year. We have reduced the number of manufacturing platforms we produce with by 30% over the same period. Over the last five years, we have reduced non-manufacturing roles by nearly 25%. This excludes the impact of divestitures.

Including divestitures, we have reduced overhead roles both by about 35%. As we have decrease the size of the organization, we've also simplified it. We have gone from managing the global business through 50 market cluster organizations, to just 25. We have simplified our network of suppliers. Reducing, for example, commercial agency support from 6000 vendors to about half of that.

Including re-investments in innovation, sales coverage, media, and sampling, productivity has enabled us to deliver constant currency gross and operating margin improvement in high single to double-digit constant currency core earnings-per-share growth, in each of the last four fiscal years. We improved gross and operating margins by triple digit indices, both including an excluding currency in FY16. And we continue the trend in Q1 with double-digit constant currency core earnings-per-share growth. And triple-digit constant currency margin expansion.

We're driving productivity improvement up-and-down the income statement, and across the balance sheet. Inventory days are down about 10 days over the last five years. Payables days are up more than 30 days, enabled significantly by our supply chain financing program.

We've made significant progress, and we have significant opportunity. Our strong track record and our line of sight to additional opportunity, inform our intent to save as much as another $10 billion in cost over the next five years.

We expect to reinvest a significant amount of the savings in R&D and product and packaging improvements, in sales coverage, and in brand awareness and trial building programs to deliver balance top and bottom line growth, which brings me to fiscal year guidance. We are maintaining our organic sales and core earnings-per-share outlook for this fiscal year.

The first-quarter was a good start. But comps get more difficult, and we continue to face a relatively slow growth volatile world. We're expecting organic sales growth of around 2% for the year. This includes between 0.5 point and 1 point of headwind from the portfolio rationalization and strengthening work within the ongoing 10 product categories. It also includes the headwind from lost sales to our Venezuelan subsidiaries in the first half of the fiscal year.

We expect FY17 all in sales growth of about 1%, including around 1 point drag on growth from the net impact of foreign exchange and divestitures. Our bottom line guidance for core earnings-per-share growth in the mid-single digits. This range reflects the volatility of the markets in which we compete. And it reflects the investments we tend to make in the business to accelerate organic sales growth in a sustainable long-term market-constructive and value-accretive way.

We continue to forecast a reduction in core nonoperating income in FY17, due to lower gains from minor brand divestitures. The core effective tax rates should be roughly in line with the FY16 level.

All-in GAAP earnings-per-share should increase 45% to 50% including the significant one-time gain from the beauty transaction with Coty that will be recognized in the October/December results. Also included in GAAP earnings-per-share are approximately $0.10 per share of non-core restructuring charges and $0.13 per share of charges related to early debt retirement that we initiated earlier this month.

At current rates and prices, FX and commodities combined are about $0.12 per share headwind to FY17 earnings. Significant currency weakness, commodity cost increases, or additional geopolitical disruptions are not anticipated within this guidance range. We expect adjusted free cash flow productivity of 90% or better.

FY17 will be a year of significant value returned to shareowners. We expect to pay over $7 billion in dividends. We reduced outstanding shares by $9.4 billion in the transaction with Coty. And we expect to make over $5 billion of direct share repurchase. In total, about $22 billion in dividend payments, share exchanges, and share repurchases this fiscal year.

We look forward to seeing many of you at our analyst day here in Cincinnati on November 17 and 18th. David Taylor will lead this session. We will have nearly all our top leadership team available to meet with you on the evening of the 17th, with many of the discussing their businesses during the management presentation on the 18th along with David Taylor and myself. If you can't make it to Cincinnati, we hope you join the webcast of the presentation on the morning of the 18th.

That concludes our prepared remarks for this morning. I would be happy to take questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: Thank you Sir.

(Operator Instructions)

Steve Powers, UBS.

STEVE POWERS, ANALYST, UBS: Jon, good morning.

JON MOELLER: Morning Steve.

STEVE POWERS: So clearly a good start to the year. And as you say, a fairly straightforward quarter, all things considered. But now we look forward. Really the question I have been [fielding] for the last hour or so is where do we go from here?

I know you don't want to give quarterly guidance. And I don't expected you to. Just given how significantly the year-over-year comps ramp in Q2, and really how significantly the volume comps ramp all the way through Q4. I was hoping you could help frame for us your expectations for the [O&D] quarter? And really the cadence of organic growth over the balance of the year, fully appreciating your not in a straight line comments.

Because the optimist in me wants to believe that we will start to see incremental returns on all this investment you've been in the last nine months. But then the pessimist in me says this Q1 momentum may be short-lived as Q2 rears its head.

So again, I [no its not the comp quarters], especially in this environment, but maybe just a little more context around how you're measuring returns on the investments you made so far. Where you are seeing the biggest bang for the buck. And again how you're thinking about top-line progression over the balance of the year. Thanks.

JON MOELLER: Thanks Steve. I think you said several important things, or repeated several important things. One is not a straight line, two is increasingly difficult comps. Obviously we start the year with a [3] and provide guidance for the year at [2]. There will be a quarter or some quarters below 3. We've also said that we want to exit the fiscal year closer to the rate of market growth in our category. Setting ourselves up for a strong subsequent year. And so that backs you in to the next two quarters being the more challenging ones, in front of us. That's really as far as I want to go in terms of specific guidance.

In terms of return on investments we are making, I think you see that. Both on the top-line and bottom-line standpoint, in the first quarter. I mean on a constant currency basis, very significant returns with 12% core earnings per share growth. 3% top line, we are reinvesting as we said we would; productivity savings. But as we also have said we would, we're going to continue to modestly improve margins. And that is the only recipe for sustained success in this industry, and we are intent on following it and so far are pleased with the results.

OPERATOR: Nik Modi, RBC Capital.

NIK MODI, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Good morning everyone. Jon maybe you can help us, following up on Steve's question, just the cadence of the reinvestment or the investment. Both from a marketing and innovation perspective. Trying to understand which quarters are going to be heavy in terms of those investments and new product launches.

And then just a quick follow-up bigger picture. Kathy took over the R&D function a couple years ago. And usually when you have leadership changes in R&D, it takes a couple of years to fill the pipeline. So just want to get your assessment on what the upstream and the current pipeline looks like. In terms of on a scale of 1 to 10 how you would view it in terms of the immediacy of the new products actually hitting the marketplace.

JON MOELLER: Thanks Nik. I apologize in part for my first part of this response. But I really think on a daily basis, in terms of fiscal years, not quarters as you know. So I really don't even know from a marketing [spending] exactly what the breakdown on the plan is by quarter.

But I know that over the year, we're going to continue to reinvest productivity savings [supposedly] more significant as the year progresses. We've also said we want to increase our continuity of marketing spend and trial and sampling building programs. So I expect that statement to lead to relatively constant levels of increase across the quarter. But it's honestly a figure by quarter. I don't have currently in my head.

The second part of your question about the cadence of new product introductions, we have significant programs coming to market in the third quarter and another batch towards the end of the fourth quarter. In terms of new product launches, the second quarter will be relatively light. And honestly I've forgotten the last part of your question. But feel free to call me later today and I can catch you up on it

OPERATOR: Lauren Lieberman, Barclays.

LAUREN LIEBERMAN, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Thanks, good morning. Jon I was struck by toward the end of call you really emphasized some words like market constructive and value accretive way of reinvesting. So I was just curious about thoughts and actions in terms of consumer value adjustments as you addressed in the press release. And in general the status of your relative pricing. In some of your major categories and end markets. [A comp two by four] would be great.

JON MOELLER: Thanks, Lauren. I'm glad you picked up on that. This is important. In the new 10 category company, where we have leading positions across those categories, we become increasingly dependent on moving markets on growing markets. There are category country combinations where we have 60%, 70%, 80%, 90% market shares. So one more point of share isn't the margin of victory or defeat.

And that doesn't mean that shares is not important. Share is important. But we need to be growing markets, increasing the number of users, for our brands. And that's what our activity system is all set up to do.

So when you talk about, for example, increasing trial in sampling that point of market entry and point of market change with noticeably superior products, that moves markets over time. And being able to price behind superior innovation also moves markets over time.

What does not move markets is, for example, leading the march down on promotion spending. If you look at the quarter we just completed, price inclusive of promotion, was a neutral contributer to the top line. It's been a neutral to positive contributor to the top line for the last 24 quarters, been a positive contributor for many years. I think it's 12 in a row. So that's going to continue to be what we are going to emphasize, which is market accretive, market constructive, growth driving investments.

Now, having said that, we won't be successful in that endeavor and maintain our shares if we are uncompetitive. And so we will take moves where warranted to ensure that we're offering a competitive value proposition to consumers. We have made several of those moves in the last quarter. What moves happen in the future will be largely dependent on where others take us. But thanks for picking up on that point it's an important one.

OPERATOR: Ali Dibadj, Bernstein.

ALI DIBADJ, ANALYST, BERNSTEIN: I want to build on that. Because despite the language of market accretive and market constructive, your last two quarters have clearly shown a shift towards volume growth versus price mix. I get the long-term trajectory from a top-line perspective hasn't been that great. Just now it's turning to look a little better again, volume being the drivers.

So how do you think about the balance of investments between innovation and add spend sampling and versus less than peer pricing on the top line? Because the perception we are hearing and you heard one of your competitors yesterday say it's effectively, the perception you're hearing from them and some of your other competitors is that it is just starting other price war. We've heard this from P&G before. It's going to be a [pure] victory or at least a fleeting victory for now.

So how do you get comfortable that's not going to be the case? You can't really control perceptions of competitors obviously, but the perceptions are already clearly forming. So how are you sure that's not going to be a phrrhic or fleeing victory for you guys. And how do you think about the competitors reaction to you guys clearly being a little bit more aggressive and pushing more volume?

JON MOELLER: Thanks Ali. We do expect -- we compete in a very strong industry with strong competitors. And we expect them to be working just as hard as we are to protect and build their businesses. And that's one of the factors that I cited in terms of guiding the 2% top-line growth on the year, against the backdrop of a 3% Q1.

In terms of ensuring that we are engaged in the activities that best support our brands and businesses, there's really not an aggregate answer to that. Though I am comfortable in aggregate, that's really a choice that's made at individual categories and countries.

And the way I think about this very simplistically, is in line with your question. If we grow business by, for example, significantly increasing promotion spending, that will be, I think you're absolutely right, a phrrhic victory. Why? Two reasons.

Number one, nothing proprietary, can be matched instantly. That's very different than a successful investment in innovation or equity building or sampling which can create unique advantage. Two, promotion spending by definition, almost by definition, is market dilutive. Whereas those other activities streams can be, if executed with excellence, market accretive. And that's a the better place for us to be in.

So I'm not going to give a formula or an algorithm. Not because I'm afraid of giving one, but simply because it doesn't exist at an aggregate level. That's now how we manage the Company. But the emphasis points will continue to be focused on long-term drivers of market growth and brand growth. Long-term drivers of new users to our brands, but short term competitiveness.

OPERATOR: Bill Schmitz, Deutsche Bank.

BILL SCHMITZ, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Jon good morning. I'm going to try to sneak in two questions in one. So the first is, what you think organic growth grew almost more than 3 points faster that would've been implied by some of the track channel data. And so maybe there's a difference between [chip into] consumption.

And then on the gross margin side, it seems like most of the currency transaction pain, it probably peaked this quarter and is over. So how do you think about that trajectory? And how much of that money has to be reinvested back into the business?

JON MOELLER: Thanks, Bill. First of all, from a comparison of reported results to reported track channel trends, there are two big drivers within that. One of them is, simply in the amount of business and the relative the growth of that business that's moving online versus off-line. And to non-tracked customers like Costco as an example.

So in the US for example, that explains about a point of difference a full point of difference between the track channel sales growth numbers in our reported sales growth numbers. In China that number represents a 5 point reconciliation item between those two numbers. So that's becoming increasingly significant. And as you know, the relative growth rates there are very different. 30% in one to call it 3%, 2% in the other.

The other difference that exists in the US track channel reports, as it should, is the inclusion of the beauty businesses that were transitioned to Coty as of October 1. So, any of the share reports or sales growth reports that have come out to date rightly include that business. They won't going forward. And that dynamic in the US explains about 0.5 point of difference between the track channel numbers and the core, non-discontinued business numbers that we're reporting today. And that's another big part of the equation.

We do have one situation which I will make you aware of that falls into your last bucket. Which is timing differences that would affect the different quarterly reporting numbers. And that's in China where we transitioned our Hong Kong business to a new distributor. And so there's some pipeline fill to that distributor in the numbers on the quarter. Call it 1 to 2 points. Relatively small on a total Company basis. But that's about 1 to 2 point impact in China itself. So those are the primary drivers of the differences.

OPERATOR: William Chappell, SunTrust.

WILLIAM CHAPPELL, ANALYST, SUNTRUST ROBINSON HUMPHREY: Thanks, good morning. Jon, one thing you said in the prepared remarks is talking about hair care and grooming as opportunities for growth. And wanted to drill into that. Are they really what we have seen, especially in grooming over years, ups and downs. And you're the dominant player in the category.

Is that something that you can get back to reasonable growth? And as you look across all the categories, I mean do you think now with beauty out all of them can grow in line with expectations? Or are there some that will be laggards over time?

JON MOELLER: If you just look at the last two quarters on a global basis for grooming, we grew organic sales 3% in the quarter that we just completed. And the prior quarter we grew 3% as well. We continue to have significant opportunities on the grooming business for growth. Certainly, the developing market opportunity is very significant.

But there's opportunities, as we increase our relevance from a channel standpoint, as we increase our relevance from an opening price points standpoint, as we increase innovation across each of the tiers of the business, whether that's disposables, mid-price systems like Mach3 or at the high-end. So I do see that as a market that offers growth opportunities to us. And I feel that way about every business within the portfolio, especially relative to the metric of market growth.

The market growths are different across the categories. I mentioned in the prepared remarks, they range anywhere from 1% to 7%. So I would expect our businesses to grow at slightly different rates. And obviously the geographic opportunity is different by market. But in general, we've settled on this portfolio because it's one we feel we can grow and can do so profitably.

OPERATOR: Dara Mohsenian, Morgan Stanley.

DARA MOHSENIAN, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Good morning. Jon, you articulated that there is room for efficiency in your $18 billion promotional budget previously. That's obviously a very large bucket. So I was just hoping you could you give us a bit more granularity on if your efforts in that area are supposed to yield actual savings that are substantial that you can drop to the bottom line over time.

Or is your approach more to redistribute any of the potential efficiencies back to drive more effective spending, and hopefully higher top-line growth over time? And then also, when do you expect the promotional efficiencies to really ramp up and take hold from a timing standpoint. Thanks.

JON MOELLER: The idea here is to increase both the efficiency and the effectiveness of our spend across the elements of the marketing mix. And there many cases where promotion spending is a very effective use of our funds. And we will continue to support that spend.

There are other instances where both we and our retail partners would be better off redirecting that spending to other elements of the marketing mix. Focusing back again on how can we drive market growth in our categories and how can we drive shopping trips and basket size for our retail partners.

And it's really working together in a joint context to identify where those opportunities are. Where [today] we're potentially both engaging in activities that are both market and profit dilutive to both sides of the partnership. And looking for ways to redirect those funds in a way that can be more accretive to both sides of the partnership.

I do not see this as being a significant source of bottom-line help. I think we're much more in the camp of redirecting and redistributing to encourage market growth both in users and have that happen in a profitable way for both partners.

OPERATOR: Olivia Tong, Bank of America Merrill Lynch.

OLIVIA TONG, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Great thanks. Good morning Jon. Do you guys have any data to suggest you're attracting new consumers with all the sampling that you're doing? And how does that compare to your expectations? Are these consumers younger? Are they shopping more online versa brick and mortar? Or are they fairly similar to your traditional consumer?

And the just also, I'm not sure I hear it, but can you provide the price mix volume breakdown between developed markets and emerging markets? Thank you.

JON MOELLER: Sure so I'm just looking for data here. If I look at volume sales price mix and developed, volume is plus 4%, sales plus 2%, price mix minus 2%, for a net of plus 2%. That's obviously the all-in number. But organic volume plus 4%, sales plus 2%. And developing organic volume plus 3% sales plus 6%. And then those are the major drivers of what's happening there.

In terms of payout on sampling, I'm glad you asked that question. This is something that is typically -- if you can sample consumers at point of market entry or point of the market change, with noticeably superior products and categories where brand loyalty is relatively higher, the lifetime benefit from that relatively modest investment can be significant. But it is a lifetime benefit.

A consumer will take a period of time just to use the product that you've sampled them with. And so that's not an investment endeavor that we typically see immediate returns in. That's why, unfortunately, we got into a practice of reducing net spending because it was not producing, it never produces immediate short-term result. But it's really the area of spending that should be the last that we cut. Because of its importance in building users for potentially a lifetime of consumption.

So we are happy with our efforts to date. But it's an area of return that we will be monitoring and measuring for several years to come.

OPERATOR: Wendy Nicholson, Citigroup.

WENDY NICHOLSON, ANALYST, CITI INVESTMENT RESEARCH: Hello, good morning. Just to clarify, I think you called out another 1 point headwind on volumes this quarter from SKU reductions and minor brand divestitures and all of that. Is that a number that's going to be in perpetuity? Or do have a time certain in mind that headwind is going to end?

And then secondly, if I'm looking at the beauty business, and granted the 2% number is much better than we have seen. So that's great. But with Pantene up mid single-digits, and I know SK-II up strongly, I think that applies Olay is still really struggling. And maybe that's related to the first question which is the SKU reductions. And I know you've taken there. But what is the timeframe do you think for when Olay will return to growth mode? Thanks.

JON MOELLER: In terms of the drag on the top line from the portfolio focusing within the 10 categories. That is something that should start ramping down, in the back half of this fiscal year. I expect it to continue though at some level through probably the first quarter, first two quarters of next fiscal year. But I don't think it's at a level during that period when we're likely to be talking about it. So still significant through the second quarter, reducing insignificance sequentially from there.

In terms of the beauty business, we're very happy with how that's performing overall as you said, plus 2%. I mentioned sequential hair care acceleration that has occurred over the last 18 months or so. In the quarter, as you mentioned, Pantene was up mid single-digits. Head and Shoulders was up mid single digits. SK-II was up strong double digits. Our personal care business is doing fairly well. Olay is stabilizing. We're going to annualize coming up here in the not-too-distant future the SKU cuts that we made in the US, we should analyze those in the back half.

And we're just in the middle of redoing our entire counter system in China. And that includes some reductions in the number of counters to be more relevant in the channels that we want consumers shopping for Olay in. And to have a better overall shopping and consumer experience. So I expect that those two items, the SKU reduction in the US and the counter rationalization or redesign in China will continue to put some pressure on Olay. Call it through the balance of the fiscal.

OPERATOR: Jason English, Goldman Sachs.

JASON ENGLISH, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Good morning folks thank you for the question. Jon, you mentioned market growth ranging from 1% to 7% in hopes that you close the gap tracking close to market growth by the end of the year. Can you give us a sense of what all-in that market growth looks like on a weighted average category country basis?

And then, separately, even when we back out this 1 to 2 point to point benefit in China the sequential improvement is notable. So congratulations on that. I was hoping you could expound a little on the drivers of that improvement. Whether it be channel driven, category driven? Just give us a little bit more color.

JON MOELLER: Thanks Jason. In terms of an aggregate market growth number, it's likely somewhere between 3% and 3.5%. I say likely because as you know, that's a metric that lags. So I don't have data through September for example. It's been declining modestly quarter to quarter, six month period to six month period. But I expect we're going to be somewhere in the 3% to 3.5% range overall.

In terms of China, we've made some real progress on a couple of important businesses. And continue to do reasonably well. And some others with some work in the balance still to do.

If we look at Oral Care for example in China was up almost 15% on the quarter. That's driven by continued progress with the Oral-B brush, as well as the high-end premium Oral-B Paste that we launched a couple of quarters ago. Shave Care, to the point of the question is there growth in grooming that remains up 17% on the quarter in China. Our personal care business is doing extremely well in China as is SK-II. So that the entire skin and personal care business was up about 10% in the quarter.

Our biggest business in China, as you know, is our hair care business. It's a significant portion of the total. We continue to have four or the top leading brands in the market. In Head and Shoulders, Rejoice, Pantene and the Vidal Sassoon. I think those are respectively number one, two, four and five in the market.

We're essentially flat there versus a year ago. Part of that's driven by some new entrants into the market. One thing that clearly continues to be a strong business and offers some upside. But one business where we need to make much more progress is on Baby Care, which was down again double digits on the quarter.

We feel very good about portions of our portfolio. Our [pant offering], for example, is doing extremely well. We have some new premium taped innovation coming into the market in the next six to nine months. Which we are also very excited about. But that is a business that we need to keep working on.

In terms of channels in China, we're doing very well in e-commerce growing ahead of the market. Building share in e-commerce still not yet [for] the level of our brick-and-mortar shares. But improving significantly. We've stabilized the start of growing shares in the hyper and super part of the business which is encouraging.

We still have some challenges both in the wholesale market and in building distribution in some of the specialty channels that are among the fastest growing. But as you're rightly point out overall, real progress, and if I think about China long-term, a significant opportunity on both top and bottom line for the Company.

OPERATOR: Kevin Grundy, Jefferies.

KEVIN GRUNDY , ANALYST, JEFFERIES & CO.: Thanks. Good morning Jon.

JON MOELLER: Good morning Kevin.

KEVIN GRUNDY : Quick housekeeping and then a broader question. So the housekeeping question, just because we have gotten a couple inquiries from investors this morning. The organic volume growth number was strong, albeit against a soft comp. Was there any timing benefit in the quarter? Anything notable that you'd comment on with respect to retail inventory levels.

And then the broader question, and I apologize if I missed this. What are the market growth assumptions contemplated in your outlook? And maybe you could separate the comments Jon into US, other developed markets, and then emerging markets.

And I ask that in the context, we've seen some of your competitors talk about slowing market growth rates, particularly in Latin America. And maybe could also comment on whether that outlook or those growth rates assumptions have changed over the past few months? Thank you.

JON MOELLER: In terms of the organic volume and any timing impacts within that, not really. The biggest driver there is sell-through to consumption as well as a base period dynamic which you rightly cited. There are certain categories where events are at different times and cross quarters this year versus last year. But in aggregate, that's not a significant driver of the volume progress that occurred.

In terms of the market growth assumptions, a split developed and developing, this is like foreign-exchange or commodities in that I don't know what the future holds. And so our forecast is predicated really on the equivalent of FX or commodity spot rates. Which is just simply the latest data. And the latest data we have the past three months shows market growth of a little over 1% in developed markets. That's inclusive of Western Europe, Japan, et cetera. And it shows 5% growth in developing markets. Weight average together you get close to the 3% to 3.5% number that I was speaking with Jason about.

If you look at the trend of those numbers, and I'm looking at three sequential three month periods, I really don't see a significant difference or significant trend change across those markets. So 0.1% to 0.2% but nothing of significance.

OPERATOR: Joe Altobello, Raymond James.

JOE ALTOBELLO, ANALYST, RAYMOND JAMES & ASSOCIATES, INC.: Hello guys, good morning. Just want to focus on Fabric Care if I could this morning. I guess you guys mentioned in the press release organic sales in developed markets up high single digits. First, how sustainable is that? I assume that number was similar in the US. Maybe you can compare up to what category growth was in the US. And maybe finally an update on competitive activity. Typically from Henkel in US fabric care. Thanks.

JON MOELLER: So starting with the aggregate number. As you know, organic sales in fabric care grew 5% in July/September. Within that, North America was up 7%. So we did build share of about 0.4 points on a past three months basis in North America. The most important thing, though, in North America is the improvement in the rate of market growth going back to our earlier conversations. Up 4 points on a past three months basis, driven by innovation in the category, which is exactly what we hope to see.

Also, growth within that segment is being fueled by our fabric enhancers business. US up 7 points, versus last year. With the scent bead segment, the one that we're innovating and the most significantly growing in the mid-20%s, our fabric enhancer share up 1.5 on a past three months basis.

We have withstood fairly successfully several competitive dynamics. We don't take that casually though. But if we can continue being innovation the leader in the market and moving the market, we believe we will continue to be in a good position.

Will be growth rates stay at that level? I would say likely not to that full extent in developed markets but will continue to be attractive. On the other hand, what's implied deductively in those numbers is declines in developing markets. A lot of that is being driven by the portfolio focusing efforts within Fabric Care. Getting out of some of the lower price tiers. The bars, even powders in some markets, so that's having an impact on growth from a negative standpoint which should dissipate as we go forward. And so, when you put those two things together, I would expect that Fabric Care will continue to be a strong contributor of growth and the total company level.

OPERATOR: Mark Astrachan, Stifel Nicolaus.

MARK ASTRACHAN, ANALYST, STIFEL NICOLAUS: Thanks. Good morning guys. I want to ask some housekeeping questions. So China category growth, what it did in the markets in which you compete when your competitors are talking about just overall slowdown and just trying to think about whether that's Company or category specific?

And then from an EPS algorithm standpoint for this year, what's embedded there from an input cost standpoint? If you're starting to see things increase a bit there?

JON MOELLER: China market growth. First of all, it's very different by category. So let me start there. And most of the categories, based on the data that we have, are holding up fairly well. There's been a lot of conversation for example, about the diaper category, market value growth. If I look past 12, six and three months I see 12.0% 11.0% 12.0%. So I don't see a major change in the growth rate of that market. And obviously today very attractive level.

If I look at, for example, Feminine Care. Again, fairly standard growth rates. Fabric Care 4.5%, 4.2%, 4.2%. Where you do see a significant reduction in the market growth rates in the track channel data is in some of the beauty businesses. But I don't have all the data here in front of me. But that is largely driven by the movement of that business online.

It's one of the disproportionate growers on e-commerce in China. And in aggregate, we still see relatively healthy market growths. In total call it 5% to 6% to 7% without a significant change in that trend over the past 12 months.

In terms of input costs. I said in the prepared remarks of the combination of the FX and commodities was a $0.12 headwinds to earnings-per-share. About two thirds of that is coming from commodities.

OPERATOR: Caroline Levy, Credit Agricole.

CAROLINE LEVY, ANALYST, CLSA LIMITED: Good morning, thank you. I think the numbers you gave us on developed and developed [paying] market growth were volume at full price down to in developed. And price up 3%, volume up 3% in developing. The question I would have is as currency stabilize, do you think there's less opportunity to get that 3 points of pricing in the developing markets? And so should we be actually a little more cautious on the pricing outlook moving forward?

And then the other thing would be could you just talk about the biggest challenges to market share? I'm assuming it's Olay, China and the US. And it's a couple of other big things. But if you just touch on that.

JON MOELLER: I think you're right to the extent that foreign-exchange headwinds diminish. The pricing activity that we will be engaging in developing markets would in all likelihood be lower. At the same though, that absence of price increase should lead to stronger volume growth over time.

So I wouldn't necessarily look at developing market growth rates as inherently declining. But I think you're absolutely right that the components of that growth should be different. That's relative to price, specifically.

Relative to mix, I think you're still going to see some benefit there, as major portions of the developing world move up the pricing ladder, the premiumization that we've seen in China which is the largest developing market as one example of that. And I expect that will occur in other markets as well as economies stabilize and improve. So now I've still am relatively bullish on our positions in developing markets and the growth prospects that they bring with them.

In terms of market share losses, I mentioned the categories on a global aggregate basis where we are growing behind the market. And one of them is Hair Care, the other is Baby Care, and I also mentioned an opportunity in the US grooming market. We one on all of those. If you take Hair Care for example, we are making great progress on Head and Shoulders up 5 points in the quarter. We are making great progress on Pantene, up 5 points in the quarter. We have some issues though, with some of our smaller brands like Herbal Essence for an example and we have a whole new program and restage coming to market in the second half of the year.

I mentioned some of the products work we are doing in Baby Care. And when we get that right we tend to perform very well. If you look at the US for example where we do have that right, we're building market share both on Pampers and in aggregate. So as I mentioned, there's opportunity to improve. It's not something that will happen overnight, but it's clearly identified and being aggressively focused on.

OPERATOR: Jonathan Feeney, Consumer Edge Research.

JOHNATHAN FEENEY, ANALYST, CONSUMER EDGE RESEARCH: Good morning. Thanks for the question. So it looks like as a last mark, at P&G had seen 17 consecutive quarters of negative foreign exchange effect. And record going back to 2000. I don't know about before that. Seemed pretty extraordinary. In 15 of those 17 quarters you took pricing. And now we've had two quarters in a row are you haven't and absorbed the foreign-exchange hit. Now that could just be coincidence, or I it could be an indication of a new direction broadly.

But what I've asked is first, following on Caroline's question, can we expect based on what you know right now, foreign-exchange, would pricing be a component of 2% -- positive pricing be a component of the 2% organic sales target for this year? But still let you know right now?

And when you think about value as you mentioned in your remarks, can that include the probably the highly likely benefits you'd get from gaining market share right now in developing markets? At a time when foreign currencies almost sure to turnaround at some point? Is that included in the value equation when you compensate people? When you manage these businesses? Thanks very much.

JON MOELLER: There are real differences between, call it the last year and the years prior to that in the FX dynamics which drive different decisions. You may recall when we headed into the most recent round of big FX impact which was last year, we said that while historically we've been able to regain about two thirds of the impact through pricing, we didn't feel we were going to be able to do that this time around.

And that was driven in large part simply by divergence and what was happening to the dollar. And what was happening to the functional currencies for some our significant competitors, namely the euro, the pound, and the yen. In those currencies were weakening over that period of time. And so there was less need for competitors who were reporting results in those currencies to price.

As much as anything, that's what you're seeing being reflected in the actuals. And we're going to be pragmatic. We're going to offer a good value to consumers. But we are also going to work through every means we have available to us including cost savings and mix improvement innovation, to maintain attractive structural economics so that growth is worth something in these markets. And that's a different answer in every category and every market. Month-to-month, week to week, so we're going to try to manage that is intelligently as we can.

I wouldn't expect at this point based on your point on where we sit today, do I expect pricing to be a significant part of the equation the balance of the year, I do not. In terms of how people are compensated, we are a US dollar functional currency Company. We pay dividends in dollars, we repurchase shares in dollars. And our investor base as you well know, really doesn't care how many rubles we have or pesos we have. What they care about is how many dollars we have. And so, the primary compensation lens is through all in performance on dollar terms.

We do though, also have a look. Because we don't want to incent behavior that's too short-term oriented at constant currency. But, over periods of time we're going to measure our success or failure based on earnings-per-share and earnings growth and importantly cash growth in dollars.

OPERATOR: Jon Andersen, William Blair.

JON ANDERSEN, ANALYST, WILLIAM BLAIR & COMPANY: Good morning, thanks for the question. Jon I just wanted to ask a little more broadly about two higher growth potential areas in your business. One is direct to consumer and the second is green, or environmentally sound or sustainable. Whatever you'd like to call it. Are you happy or satisfied overall with the progress that the Company's making here?

And I know you have programs like Gillette Shave Club and products like Tide Pure Clean. Is this something that you can accomplish internally via internal focus organic focus? Or you think you need to supplement or look to accelerate it with M&A as well? Thanks.

JON MOELLER: Thanks Jon. Let me address green and sustainable first. While we are open to both inorganic and organic ways of increasing our product superiority and the sustainability of our products, and that's an important and, it hasn't been our experience that there's a lot available on the market to delivers that and. Which something like Tide Pure Clean definitely delivers.

We've been on this for a while. While Tide Pure Clean is new, and it's doing very well if you look at share of the segment. It's done remarkably well in a short period of time. Things like Tide Coldwater, if you look at the entire energy consumption stream involved in washing clothes, there's more consume in terms of energy to heat water than there is in the process of manufacturing and distributing detergent.

So we're going continue to look at all vectors that enable us to improve our sustainability across the value chain from a sustainability standpoint to have products that consumers can choose that enable them to improve their impact on the environment, while still delivering against the need or the job to be done. So I don't think anything is required from an acquisition standpoint. But I also don't want you to think that we're not very open-minded in our pursuit of this objective because we are.

As relates to DTC, this is an area I think it's important that we frame, first of all, direct to consumer sales in our product category globally currently represents 0.3% of sales. I'm not saying that to indicate that it's not a potentially important tool for us. I believe it is. And we've been going direct to consumer think about SK-II as an example for a period of time. There are opportunities for us to increase our relevance from a selling and brand building standpoint, and a direct to consumer contacts across several of our categories. And we're mobilizing against those.

Again I do not want this to be taken wrong way but it don't see a mass move. Call it 20% or 30% of the market, to direct to consumer consumption. If we just think about the experience of that, how many people do you really know that want to satisfy their household products shopping needs in a month or two, by going to 40 different websites with 40 different passwords and 40 different packages that arrive at 40 different times.

Again, not in any way denigrating the opportunity that tool presents us. And we need to fully capitalize on that, which we're working to do. But I did want to provide just a little bit of context.

OPERATOR: That concludes today's conference, thank your participation. You may now disconnect. Have a great day.

JON MOELLER: Thanks everybody. Hope to see you here in November.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
prgml : The Procter & Gamble Company
   IN
i258 : Cosmetics/Toiletries | icnp : Consumer Goods | ipcare : Personal Care Products/Appliances
   NS
c151 : Earnings | cgvfil : Government Filings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Financial Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020161026ecap001p8
  


 HD
 Q4  2016  Procter  & Gamble Co Earnings Call - Final
   WC
14,882 words
   PD
2 August 2016
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©016 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved. 

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good morning, and welcome to Procter & Gamble's quarter-end conference call. P&G would like to remind you that today's discussion will include a number of forward-looking statements. If you will refer to P&G's most recent 10-K, 10-Q, and 8-K reports, you will see a discussion of factors that could cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from these projections. Also as required by Regulation G, Procter & Gamble needs to make you aware that during the discussion, the Company will make a number of references to non-GAAP and other financial measures.

   TD
Procter & Gamble believes these measures provide investors with valuable information on the underlying growth trends of the business, and has posted on its website, www.PG.com, a full reconciliation of non-GAAP and other financial measures.

Now I will turn the call over to P&G's Chief Financial Officer, Jon Moeller.

JON MOELLER, CFO, PROCTER & GAMBLE CO: Good morning. I am joined this morning by our Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer David Taylor, and by our Vice President of Investor Relations John Chevalier. I plan to take you through the quarter, and provide an update on productivity, and on our portfolio project. David will discuss our efforts to accelerate top-line growth, will briefly review progress in each of our 10 business categories, and will discuss our plans to further strengthen our organization and culture, all to reliably drive balanced top- and bottom-line growth.

We're making progress in moving P&G's results to a balance of top-line, bottom-line, and cash-flow growth. The increased investments in innovation, advertising, and sales coverage to enhance our long-term prospects for faster, sustainable top-line growth, and stabilize top-line growth rates in several key markets. We have delivered another strong year of productivity improvement and cost savings to help fund this. Cash flow continues to be strong, with fiscal year adjusted free cash flow productivity of 115%.

Organic sales for the quarter were up 2%. This includes about a one-point drag from the combination of the clean-up work we're doing within the ongoing portfolio, and the impact of reduced finished product sales to our Venezuelan subsidiaries. As we get through the clean-up work and annualize the Venezuela headwinds, we'll be closer to 3% growth.

Importantly, the sales growth was volume driven, with organic volume growing 2%. Organic volume was ahead of a year ago in every segment, ranging from plus 1% to plus 5%. Organic sales grew in every segment, ranging from plus 1% to plus 8%. Organic sales were up 1.5 points in developed markets and 3.5 points in developing markets. In North America, organic sales grew 2%, roughly in line with underlying market growth, our second consecutive quarter at this level.

Organic volume in North America grew 3% for the second consecutive quarter slightly ahead of underlying market growth. In China, organic sales were in line versus the prior year, an improvement over last quarter, and another step toward returning to market-level growth or better.

All in, sales for the Company were down 3%, including a 3-point headwind from foreign exchange, and a 2-point drag from the combination of Venezuela deconsolidation and minor-brand divestitures. Core gross margin increased 160 basis points versus the prior year. On a constant-currency basis, core gross margin was up 240 basis points, including 280 basis points of productivity improvements.

Core operating margin was down 150 basis points for the quarter, due to foreign exchange headwinds and a significant increase in advertising support versus the prior year. On a constant-currency basis, core operating margin was down 30 basis points. Productivity improvements contributed 360 basis points of operating margin benefit in the fourth quarter.

Core earnings per share were $0.79, slightly above the high end of our implied guidance range, which is a reduction of 15% versus the prior year, due mainly to foreign exchange, lower non-operating income, and a higher tax rate. Foreign exchange was at $0.07 per share, or $200 million after-tax headwind on fourth-quarter earnings. Non-operating income was $0.02 per share headwind, as the base-period quarter included higher gains from minor-brand divestitures.

The core effective tax rate was a $0.06 per-share impact on core earnings per share for the quarter, at 23.8%, up 540 basis points versus last year. This was a little better than we initially projected, but still a substantial increase compared to last year.

These three impacts, foreign exchange, non-operating income, and tax, were a combined core earnings-per-share growth headwind of $0.15 per share this quarter. Adjusting for these impacts, fourth-quarter core EPS was up modestly versus the prior year.

On an all-in GAAP basis, earnings per share were $0.69 for the quarter, up 283%, versus a prior-year quarter that included a significant one-time impact from the deconsolidation of Venezuelan results. We generated $2.8 billion of free cash flow, with 145% adjusted free cash flow productivity. Over the course of the fiscal year we generated $12.1 billion in free cash flow, yielding adjusted free cash flow productivity of 115%.

We were able to reduce outstanding shares at a value of over $8 billion through a combination of share repurchase and shares that were exchanged in the Duracell transaction. We paid dividends of more than $7.4 billion. In total, nearly $16 billion in dividend payments, share exchanges, and share repurchase.

Now looking forward, we continue to focus on large opportunities that should be within our control, executing what is the largest transformation in our Company's history. Re-accelerating top-line growth will strengthen category business models, innovation plans, and where appropriate, improve value equations. Step-changing cost and cash productivity, simplifying and strengthening our product portfolio, and strengthening our organization and culture, all to win more consistently. This transformation is aimed at delivering a balanced top- and bottom-line growth, and leadership value creation.

Top-line growth was our biggest improvement need, and is enabled by both our productivity efforts and the portfolio strengthening that are underway. I'll talk briefly about these enabling efforts, and then turn it over to David for a discussion on top-line acceleration itself.

We continue to dramatically improve cost and cash productivity, with significant up-side still ahead. We have accelerate and exceeded each of our productivity objectives, and have now raised them. Our original five-year cost-of-goods savings target was $6 billion. We've delivered $7.2 billion, more than $1 billion over our initial target. We delivered cost-of-goods savings, which were at or above target each the last five fiscal years.

We've reduced manufacturing enrollment by 22% over the last four years. This includes new staffing necessary to support capacity additions. On a same-site basis, manufacturing enrollment is down about 27% through June 2016, with additional progress planned in FY17. These figures exclude divestiture impacts.

In February of 2012 we announced that we would reduce non-manufacturing, or overhead enrollment, by 10% over five years. As of July 1, we've reduced rolls by nearly 25%, 2.5 times the original target. Including divestitures, we'll reduce non-manufacturing our overhead rolls by 35% by the end of FY17.

We're reducing non-working marketing expenditures, costs that don't impact reach, frequency, continuity of our advertising and trial-generation programs. We were spending $2 billion per year on agency fees. Two years ago, we reduced the roughly 6,000 agencies we work with by nearly 40%, and cut agency and production spending by about $370 million.

In FY16 we delivered an additional $250 million of agency-related savings, re-investing these savings in advertising and sampling of consumer-preferred products, over $600 million of savings in two years.

We're driving productivity improvement up and down the income statement and across the balance sheet. Inventory days are down. Payables days are up. Net of re-investments and innovation, sales coverage, medium sampling, productivity has enabled us to deliver constant-currency gross and operating profit margin improvement, and high single- to double-digit constant-currency core earnings per share growth in each of the last four fiscal years. We improved gross and operating margins by triple-digit indices, both including and excluding currency in FY16.

We said over four years ago that we needed to make cost and cash productivity part of our culture, as integral to our culture as innovation. We've made significant progress, and we have significant opportunity. Our strong track record and our line of sight to additional opportunity inform our intent to save as much as another $10 billion in cost over the next five years. The majority of these savings will again come from cost of goods sold, an area where we have consistently met or exceeded our targets.

Supply chain transformation is in its early stages, first in North America, next in Europe, then in Latin America and India, the Middle East, and Africa. We're in investment mode now, with savings to ramp up in two, three, and four years. Our new US mixing centers are up and running, putting roughly percent 80% of volume within 24 hours of store shelves. On-time deliveries and frequency of deliveries have increased. We've already seen an improvement in customer service levels, resulting in improved on-shelf availability in the US, and more than a point to roughly 96%.

We're constructing multi-category manufacturing sites in geographically strategic locations to replace smaller single-category sites in less cost-effective questions. We are well under way with the construction of a new site in West Virginia that's scheduled to start production in calendar 2017. We've announced moves of production for some laundry detergent, fabric enhancer, perfume, body wash and hair-care products, and we've announced our completed the shut-down of three sites.

In Europe, we've announced plans to consolidate production of laundry powders, deodorants, and hard-surface cleaners to fewer plants across our European manufacturing network. We're now beginning the consolidation work in Latin America.

As we make these moves, we're upgrading and standardizing manufacturing platforms to lower costs and to facilitate faster innovation. We're employing smart automation and digitization to improve manufacturing productivity, raw material and finished product logistics, and demand planning. We have additional opportunity to optimize working capital and further increase the efficiency of our capital spend.

After two strong years of savings, we'll enter next year still spending about $1.4 billion on agency-related costs, still more room to improve. As we fully operationalize the new focused 10-category Company, there will be additional opportunities to increase organization efficiency, agility, and speed of decision making, enabled in many cases by digitization and automation.

Finally, we'll be working to improve the effectiveness of our promotional spending. We currently spend about $18 billion in deductions between gross and net sales. We see clear opportunities to improve the effectiveness of the spend for us and our retail partners to build the value of our categories and the share of P&G brands.

Again, we're targeting up to $10 billion of additional savings over the next five years. We expect to re-invest a significant amount of the savings in R&D and product-packaging improvements, sales coverage, and a brand awareness and trial-building programs to deliver balanced top- and bottom-line growth.

Moving to portfolio, over the last 18 months we've divested, discontinued, or consolidated 61 brands, including the completion of the Duracell transaction at the end of February. We have 44 more brands in the exit process, including 41 brands in the deal with Coty. We're currently winding down transition support for Duracell. We've completed the systems work in standing up the beauty business for the transition with Coty. We've received anti-trust clearance in all markets. We currently remain on track to close the deal with Coty in October 2016.

By the end of the fiscal year we'll have exited 105 brands, and all the complexity they create. These brands represent only about 6% of base-period profit. Going forward, our portfolio will be anchored on 10 category-based business units and 65 brands. These are categories where P&G has leading-market positions, and where product technologies deliver performance differences that matter to consumers. These 10 businesses have historically grown faster with higher margins than the balance of the Company.

We're moving away from businesses that are more trend-driven, where fashion, fragrance, and flavor drive consumer purchase decisions. We're focusing on businesses where product and performance drive purchase decisions, where there are clear consumer jobs to be done, and clear objective measures of performance. These are products that consumers purchase and use on a daily basis, and they're in structurally attractive categories.

Within these core businesses we're focusing our offerings, making smart choices for short-, mid-, and long-term value creation, forgoing going bad businesses, even when these choices create near-term top-line pressure. In our Mexico family-care business, we've discontinued low-tier, unprofitable, and commoditizing products, and are focusing instead on very profitable high-tier differentiated products, moving from double-digit negative margins to double-digit positive margins. While we first talked about this a year ago, it took several quarters to sell out remaining inventories of the discontinued products. As a result, the top-line drag doesn't fully annualize until the end of this calendar year.

In India, we've made a similar choice to de-prioritize several unprofitable lines of business, which negatively impact short-term top-line growth rates, but will lead longer term to a much more profitable business that will grow strongly. A strategic part of our Indian business is growing at high single-digit pace. Sales in the portion of the business we're fixing or exiting, about 15% of the portfolio, have been down more than 35%. The top-line pain is worth it. We're making significant progress in improving local profit margins, up 750 basis points over the last two years. We've gone from losing significant money in India to triple-digit profits in just two years.

We're taking a similar approach in our fabric-care product portfolio, discontinuing product forms, additives, bars, bleaches, and tablets, and value tier in powder detergents that have been a drag on profitability and value creation. These choices are causing a top-line drag on the global fabric-care business, but improve the profitability and the long-term attractiveness of the business.

The SKUs we've eliminated to simplify our Olay lineup caused an incremental drag on sales growth. As we annualize this headwind next year, and as we focus our innovation and marketing support on the core boutiques and SKUs in the portfolio, we'll have set the stage for faster, more profitable growth. Combined, these choices have been causing about a 1-point drag in organic sales growth. We expect this headwind to continue for the balance of the calendar year, and then dissipate in the second half of next year as we begin annualizing these effects.

That's productivity and portfolio, both on or ahead of track, with, and this is important, a significant amount of the benefit still ahead of us.

I'll now hand it over to David to update you on the top line, provide a brief status review across the 10-product categories, and talk about important steps we've undertaken to strengthen our organization and culture to more consistently create value.

DAVID TAYLOR, PRESIDENT & CEO, PROCTER & GAMBLE CO: Good morning. Our objective is very clear, balance the top- and bottom-line growth that delivers total shareholder returns that place P&G consistently in the top third of our peer group. A critically important element of our transformation is re-acceleration of our top-line growth to reach and sustain organic sales growth at or slightly ahead of underlying growth of the markets where we compete. Productivity improvement and cost savings are a necessity in this effort, providing fuel for innovation, advertising, sales coverage, and trial and sampling to grow users and usage.

Top- and bottom-line growth are not separate endeavors. They've reinforce and fuel each other. Everything this model starts with delighting consumers and shoppers. Winning at the zero, first, and second moments of truth, when consumers research our categories and brands, purchase them in a store or online, and use them in homes. Winning these critical moments requires consumer and shopper insights that lead to improved product innovations, consumer communication and retail programs, that lead to competitive advantages for P&G brands and products

We're making progress in accelerating organic sales growth, but we're not yet where we need to be. There's more work to be done. As John just shared, organic sales grew in all five reporting segments, and we're in line or higher in nine of 10 product categories in the April-June quarter. For most of these businesses, the back half of the year was stronger than the first half. Organic sales for the Company was essentially flat in the first half of the year, and were up 1.5% in the second half, obvious acceleration, but not where we want to be.

Let me spend a minute on each of the 10 categories. We're growing our fabric-care business with consumer-preferred brands and product offerings like our premium performance and premium priced unit-dosed detergents, and our market-leading and importantly expanding scent-bead fabric enhancers. We're exiting slower-growing, lower-priced, more commoditized product forms where it's more difficult to distinguish our products and create value.

Fabric care results in the US demonstrate what is possible when we deliver superior value from best-in-class performance at a modest price premium. The US laundry detergent market is continuing to grow behind our efforts, with the category up four points last year.

The same is true for fabric enhancers. Spurred by the rapid growth of scent beads, the US fabric-enhancer category is growing, up 7 points on a value basis last year, with scent bead form growing in the mid 20%s. Our share is growing. P&G's laundry detergent and fabric enhancer value shares were up in FY16.

We will continue to be the innovation leader in fabric care. In North America, we are introducing a new regiment on Tide and Downy that addresses the odor problems common to the growing athletic wear segment. 70% of consumers wear athletic gear multiple times each week. The Odor Defense Collection, anchored by innovation on Tide Pods, brings the proprietary formula of enzymes and surfactants that break down and remove stubborn soils and residue for a great clean and fresh scent.

Now paired with the added cleaning power of Tide Odor Defense Rescue laundry booster and Downy Fresh Protect Odor Defense Beads, this regiment promises to eliminate odors from the fast-growing market of athleisure clothes people are wearing far beyond the gym.

We opened a learning market of Tide Pure Clean liquid detergent in the US. Naturals is a large and growing segment in several categories, but Naturals are only about 3% of the laundry category currently. Unlocking growth in Naturals is about solving the tension between green and clean. People want performance and sustainability. Pure Clean provides the cleaning power of Tide with 65% bio-based ingredients, and it's produced with 100% renewable wind power electricity, in a facility operating with zero manufacturing waste to landfill.

It's very early to read results, but after just five weeks on shelf with no TV advertising, Pure Clean is approaching a 1% share of detergents within the learning-market stores. We're increasing sampling in new washing machines, a key point of category entry and change for consumers. In FY15, we distributed 5 million samples in washing machines globally. Last fiscal years we increased that to $17 million. In FY17, we will distribute 30 million samples of our best-performing products.

Turning to home care, our performance in the dish category has been very strong. Cascade grew sales high single digits last year, behind the continued success of Cascade Platinum, our best-performing and most premium-priced auto dish detergent. In North America, we increased sampling on Cascade Premium by 20% last year.

The Dawn brand delivered its ninth consecutive year of organic sales growth in the US. Dish results has also been strong in Japan and Europe on hand-washing liquids and auto-detergent products. Febreze has had a challenging year, down low singles, but we have innovations coming next fiscal.

In hair care, we launched our new conditioner innovation on Pantene in the US early this calendar year. The new-conditioner technology is a consumer blind-test winner versus our best competition in North America, China, and Japan. Pantene and Head and Shoulders each delivered solid organic sales growth in the US for the second consecutive year. Herbal Essences was the main drag on the hair-care growth, down mid teens last fiscal year. Now we have plans in the works for product, package, and consumer communication improvements in FY17.

In the skin and personal care category, SK-II had another very strong year, with organic sales up mid to low teens. As John mentioned, Olay completed a significant streamlining of SKUs in North America last year. In China, Olay's second-biggest market, we're executing a similar streamlining of sales counters, retaining the top-selling and most-profitable counters to focus resources where it matters most, on the doors that create the most value.

On Old Spice, sales were up versus the prior year, and accelerated in the second half behind the Hardest Working Collection innovation bundle that included performance and scent upgrades to Old Spice deodorants and body washes in the US.

In grooming, Gillette delivered steady growth in international markets last fiscal, holding or growing value share in each region outside the US, behind strong innovation, advertising, and sampling programs. The growth in international markets was offset by soft results in the US. To improve our growth and the growth of the market, we are re-investing in innovation, new user trial, and improved consumer value.

We completed the global expansion of our very successful Gillette Fusion FlexBall innovation into Asia in 2016. We expanded our performance advantage at the top end of the market. Our most recent cartridge innovation, Gillette Fusion ProShield, launched in January.

We're supporting a broader range of our product ladder from our best product, Fusion FlexBall ProShield, to Mach 3 systems to premium-priced and superior-performance disposables, with stronger consumer value communication. We're facing more aggressive competition at lower price points, and we will respond to ensure our brands remain a superior consumer value.

We're driving trial at point-of-market entry. We put Fusion ProGlide FlexBall razors in the hands of nearly 80% of young men, over 2 million samples last year in the US, with our 18th Birthday sampling program. We're now sampling the FlexBall razor handle and ProShield cartridge, our very best combination of shaving technologies.

FY16 was a difficult year in personal healthcare, due to the very weak cough-cold season in the US. The category was also comparing against a base period that contained the launch of many new items in the Metamucil and Vick's brands. Even with these headwinds, the category delivered positive organic sales growth for the year.

Organic sales in oral care were up low single digits in FY16, with high single digit after-tax profit growth, behind strong productivity improvements. Sales of our top-performing items grew fastest last fiscal, with premium Oral-B Power toothbrushes, and Premium HD toothpaste, each up mid teens. Organic sales in the 42 Oral-B toothpaste expansion markets were up double digits last fiscal year.

The solid growth in developed markets was partially offset by lower sales in several developing markets, where we took pricing to offset foreign exchange impacts.

In US baby care, strong innovations, consumer communication trial programs, and a robust online presence have led to strong growth for Pampers. Pampers' value share of US diapers was up a point last fiscal. Pampers latest Swaddlers and Cruisers innovation, extra absorb channels, is driving share growth in the premium-tier diaper category, with Swaddlers and Cruisers share up more than 1 point last fiscal year. We strengthened investments in brand awareness and trial at the point of category entry. Now 70% of new moms in the US will receive samples of our best products through our prenatal and hospital programs.

FY15 marked the seventh consecutive year of sales and value share growth of the Luvs brand in the US; however, results were down in FY16, following a significant price reduction taken by our primary competitor. Now we've taken steps to improve the awareness, trial, and consumer value of Luvs. We're increasing equity-building advertising, strengthening in-store programs, and we're currently launching product and packaging improvements.

In Japan, Pampers' value share grew more than 2 points last year. Pampers is now the value-share leader in Japan diapers, and also the share leader in the pants segment. Baby care results have been softer in other markets. To address this, we're strengthening our value proposition in several markets in accelerated premium innovation on both taped and pull-on diapers to restore our competitiveness at the top end of the market.

We're strengthening our selling resources and programs for baby center stores and e-commerce, and we're increased investments in point-of-market entry programs to drive higher awareness and trial of Pampers among new moms.

FemCare organic sales were up low single digits for the fiscal year, with improved momentum in the second half, including a strong fourth quarter, with mid single-digit organic volume and sales growth. Expansion and leverage of innovation such as Always Infinity and Always Discreet have been the key drivers of improved top-line growth. We've also made consumer value interventions in markets like Russia to restore pricing to competitive levels, which helped in the second half.

In family care, the top-tier segments of the Bounty and Charmin brands delivered solid organic sales growth last fiscal. Now as John discussed, we made the choice to discontinue low-tier products in Mexico, which drove overall category sales down versus the prior year. Global bottom-line results were strong, with after-tax profits up high single digits in FY16. We have product and packaging innovations coming this year on the Bounty Basic and Charmin Basic brands, to improve their positioning with consumers in the US.

Now I'll look briefly at our top two markets, first the US. Organic sales and shipment volume was up about 0.5 point in the first half of the fiscal year. We accelerated this growth in the back half the year to plus 2% and 2.5% organic sales and shipments, respectively. The second-half growth rates are roughly in line with the underlying growth of our categories. We plan to build on this momentum.

China organic sales were down 5 points last fiscal, but improved sequentially in the third and fourth quarters. The fourth quarter was in line with prior year; progress, but nothing worth celebrating yet. In FY17, we'll re-launch product lines in several categories, and will implement a new go-to-market program across retailers and distributors in China. These improvements will take some time to fully take hold. Recovery will not be a straight line, but an aggregate, fiscal year results should improve.

As we work to accelerate top-line growth, enabled by productivity and a portfolio choices, we are transforming our organization and culture. We're making many changes that by themselves may seem small and obvious, but together they are significant and important.

As an example, we've made several important changes in how we go to market. We talked previously about eliminating overlapping resources and duplicative structures and responsibilities of marketing and sales professionals in the global-business units and the market-development organizations, clarifying responsibilities and strengthening accountability.

Reflecting this, a while back we changed the name of our market-development organizations to selling and market operations, a small but very important change. We're changing our talent development and assignment planning to drive more mastery and depth. The objective is simple, improve business results by getting and keeping the right people in the right places to develop and apply deep category mastery to winning.

Consistent with this, we're dedicating sales resources to categories or sectors. In our larger markets, sales resources have greater accountability back to the categories they serve, which is also a change. We're aligning incentives at a lower and more specific level of granularity, to better match these responsibilities and to increase accountability.

P&G is fortunate to consistently source and develop strong talent, and we intend to maintain our develop-from-within approach. But there are times when the best talent for a role may not be inside our organization. We are now implementing and supplementing key businesses with outside hiring more often when we need to field the best team possible.

As an example, we've dedicated and added resources to improve category mastery in our North American personal healthcare sales force. Two years ago, the average tenured sales people within the category was less than 12 months. About half of the sales people were dedicated only to personal healthcare, and 100% of the people were either new hires coming to P&G with no work experience, or transfers for other P&G businesses.

Over the last year or so, we've added resources to the consumer healthcare sales force. Almost half of those people have prior healthcare sales experience. Today, 100% of people selling the business are dedicated to personal healthcare, and the average experience level is now more than five years of healthcare sales experience inside or outside of P&G.

Over the last two years we've added 115 people to the US retail sales force through external hiring, and more than half of them had prior sales experience. Over the last two years, we've increased category dedication of the US sales force by 20%, with more than 90% of sales people now focused on one category. We've doubled the number of experienced external hires last fiscal versus the prior year, bringing in experienced talent at five different levels of Management, including the Vice President level. Experienced hires comprised about 5% of all Management hiring in FY16.

Bottom line, we're committed to getting, keeping, and growing the right people in the right place to drive better business results. Again, each of these changes may seem small and rather obvious, but collectively they are big and important changes for our organization and culture. Each area of transformation, top-line acceleration, productivity, portfolio, and strengthening our organizational culture requires change.

Let me say again what I said at the CAGNE Conference in February. P&G is ready to adapt, evolve, and change whatever is needed to win. We're making good progress in each of these areas, but we know our success will ultimately be graded on the sales, profit, cash, and value creation results we deliver, not on the activities that get us there. We are committed to do everything we can, and to change what must be changed to deliver these results. Now let me hand it back to John to discuss FY17 guidance; then I'll be happy to take your questions.

JON MOELLER: Thanks, David. To frame guidance, I think it's helpful to look briefly at the macro-environment that confronts us as we start FY17. Category growth rates slowed throughout last fiscal year, and are currently growing at about a 3% pace for our global footprint. As you know, GDP growth rate has slowed to the point that at least 10 countries have moved to negative interest rates, including Germany, Japan, Denmark, France, Italy, Spain, and Switzerland.

Political, economic, and foreign exchange volatility each continue to have a large impact on the markets and on the currencies in which we operate. The recent Brexit decision is but one example of a political disruption impact that has knock-on effects in consumer confidence and resulting market growth. The recent coup attempt in Turkey is another example.

We continue to face significant FX volatilities, such as the recent 40% devaluation of the Nigerian currency, and 25% devaluation for open-market transactions in Egypt. Our ability to ensure supply and stay on shelves in many markets is dependent on our ability to source US dollars. Currency exchange constraints in markets such as Egypt, Nigeria, Venezuela, and historically Argentina make operations in those countries very difficult to manage, and sometimes result in production shut-downs.

Net, we continue to face a relatively slow-growth volatile world, which is reflected in our FY17 guidance. We're currently expecting organic sales growth of around 2%. This includes between 0.5 and 1 point of headwind from the clean-up work within the ongoing 10-product categories. It also includes the remaining two quarters of headwind from lost sales to our Venezuelan subsidiaries.

As we annualize more of the clean-up work and as we made progress in markets like China, we should be getting back towards market-level growth rates by fiscal year's end. We expect FY17 all-in sales growth of about 1%, including a 1-point drag on growth from the net impact of foreign exchange and divestitures.

Our bottom-line guidance is core earnings per share growth in mid single digits. This range reflects the volatility of the markets in which we complete, and it reflects the investments we intend to make in the business to accelerate organic sales growth in a sustainable, long-term, market-constructive, and value-accretive way.

We'll work with our retail partners to build the value of our categories, behind strong product innovation and more effective in-store and online merchandising of our leading brands. We'll re-invest savings to improve product formulations and packaging, sales coverage and media programs, product sampling, and in-store demand creation. We'll also invest in consumer-value equations, correcting value gaps, and quickly responding to competitive challenges as they emerge throughout the year.

This guidance includes a fiscal year average share count reduction of approximately 4%, the net outstanding share reductions from the full-year impact of the Duracell deal, the beauty transaction with Coty, discretionary share repurchase, and stock-option exercises. The actual impact on outstanding shares from the beauty transaction won't be known until the deal is completed in October, and will of course be dependent on the stock prices of both companies and the transaction discount.

We're forecasting a reduction in non-operating income in FY17, due to lower gains from minor brand divestitures. The core effective tax rate should be roughly in line with the FY16 level.

All-in GAAP earnings per share should increase 45% to 55%, due primarily to the significant one-time gain from the beauty transaction with Coty. Also included in the GAAP earnings-per-share range are $0.10 per share of non-core restructuring charges. We expect adjusted free cash flow productivity of 90% or better. CapEx should be in the range of 5% to 5.5% of sales.

FY17 will be a year of significant value of return to share owners. We expect to pay dividends of over $7 billion. In addition, we expect to reduce outstanding shares at a value of approximately $15 billion, through a combination of direct share repurchase, and shares that will be exchanged in the beauty transaction. In total, over $22 billion in dividend payments, share exchanges, and share re-purchase.

To summarize FY17 guidance, our current forecast calls for around 2% organic sales growth. All-in sales growth will be around 1%, and we should have a small improvement in profit margins. Non-op income will be a headwind, and share count will contribute about 4% of earnings-per-share benefit.

At current rates and prices, FX and commodities are a modest headwind to FY17 earnings. Significant currency weaknesses, commodity increases, or additional geopolitical disruptions are not anticipated within this guidance.

While we currently expect FX to be only a small headwind for the year, it will still be a notable headwind in Q1. We'll still be impacted by significant devaluations in the UK, Argentina, Egypt, Nigeria, among others. We'll also still to be annualizing the loss of finished product sales to our Venezuelan subsidiaries. Please take these factors into account as you consider the quarterly profile of your sales and earnings estimate.

With that, I will hand it back to David for his closing comments.

DAVID TAYLOR: Thanks, John. We're encouraged and optimistic as we enter FY17. We expect this year to represent another significant step toward our goal of balanced growth and value creation. We're committed to continued productivity improvement and cost savings that provide the fuel for innovation and investments needed to accelerate and sustain faster top-line growth.

We have created and are sustaining strong cash productivity momentum. We're nearing the completion of the major portfolio moves to simplify and strengthen the category portfolio, and we're making similar moves at the brand- and product-form level to improve the profitability and the value creation capability the categories will retain.

We're strengthening the organization and culture by improving our approaches to our talent acquisition, career management, decision making, accountability, and incentives. Our standards are high. We're not satisfied with just being a little better. We want to be the best. We're making progress and we're determined to win. We're also realistic about the time it will take for the improvements and investments we're making to fully play out in our results.

Turn it back to John.

JON MOELLER: That concludes our prepared remarks for this morning. As a reminder, business-segment information is provided in our press release, and will be available in slides which will be posted on our website, www.PG.com, following the call. Now David and I would be happy to take any questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions)

Bill Schmitz, Deutsche Bank.

BILL SCHMITZ, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: A few questions on the guidance. The first is, how do balance market share versus profitability? Because I know the Organization has changed, and if I look at some of the Nielsen data it still looks like the vast majority of the business is losing market share.

And then just in terms of FY17 guidance, can you just give us some color on how much of the incremental $10 billion of savings you think are going to come through for the year. And then sort of a rough cut on what advertising levels are going to be and kind of where you intend to spend the money?

JON MOELLER: Sure, Bill. In terms of the relative priority of market share versus profitability, it's an and in our view. We need to be growing at or slightly ahead of the markets in which we are operating, and we fully intend to do that.

We're -- as we said, we're going to reinvest a significant portion of the savings that we're generating behind that effort to get back to market share growth. And that will -- that is starting. We see it in the numbers in the fourth quarter and we'll continue as we go forward. Just one thing on share trends, and you're absolutely right in your overall observation.

But if you look at across the five reporting segments, market share trends, past six months, past 12 months, were better past six months in five out of five segments. The same holds for the past three months versus the past six months, so again five out of five segments improving, and the same for the past one month versus past three month comparison. Again as David very clearly said, we're not where we want to be but we're starting to see that progress as we reinvest behind the opportunities that are in front of us.

In terms of the savings proration across the five years, this program will be a little bit more backloaded than our prior program, in part because of the nature of some of the projects that are contained in it. Specifically the supply chain transformation, where as I said, we're in investment mode now and the savings will come two, three, four years from now. Having said that, there will be significant contribution from productivity again next year, which will give us the ability to increase investment in the business.

We're expecting increases in advertising spend this year versus last. Think about it in the probably mid-single-digit range. We want to increase, as David said on his remarks, a sampling of consumer preferred products and trial generation. We want to be more relevant in-store and online, and all of that is part of an activity system that we believe will help us restore the market share growth that we rightly cite as necessary going forward.

OPERATOR: Dara Mohsenian, Morgan Stanley.

DARA MOHSENIAN, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: The guidance for 2% organic sales growth in FY17, it still seems pretty muted given the significant level of investment you put into place in advertising and sampling and R&D in the back half of FY16 and the plans you just mentioned in place for 2017, particularly given these discontinuations are dissipating as you also mentioned previously. Why aren't you expecting more of a sales recovery and market share payback?

And then separately, are you comfortable that the level of spending as we leave FY17 is the right level of spending behind the business longer term? Should we assume we get back to more of that normal EPS growth algorithm post 2017?

DAVID TAYLOR: A couple of responses. First, we are very committed to get back to a little above the market growth and we recognize 2% is not market growth. Having said that, and Jon highlighted in the formal remarks, we've still got quite a few choices to annualize.

We made the choice, and I think it's very evident in AMJ, that we can get back to investing at the business at the level we need to. We also demonstrated to me in the second half of the year that we're committed to four quarters of brand support. The fourth quarter we increased meaningfully our median investment versus previous year, and we're going to continue that in FY17.

Having said that, we will not stop making key choices where we have businesses that are structurally not profitable, but we think on balance the majority of that choice has been made and we'll annualize it through this year. So actually feel very good that the businesses that we have, especially post the close of Coty, that were very well-positioned to grow sequentially. So I expect the first half to continue to make progress, second half will be better.

And much like we said at CAGNY, you will see just continued building of our business strength behind a very clear choice in investing in brand building, and that bias toward point of market entry and bringing new consumers on and investing in innovation, both in current brands, but also in our P&G ventures to ensure we're planting to seeds for the mid-and long-term future. And we will continue to make the investments in go-to-market capability, including sales coverage, to make sure that we can reach and win in fast-moving channels, be that e-commerce, baby stores, cosmetic stores or wherever the consumer and shopper want to shop.

OPERATOR: Steve Powers, UBS.

STEVE POWERS, ANALYST, UBS: You're clearly in investment mode now, re-focused on that topline acceleration which is great for my perspective, but as Jon laid out, even after the Duracell transaction and with Coty coming a close here in a couple of months, there's still a lot of change afoot. Still a lot of cost-cutting underway, so as you step back and think about what you've observed over the last three quarters or so as CEO, what is your confidence at this point that the people of P&G, the culture or the organization, can they can truly take on both challenges at once? In other words, is the productivity culture truly ingrained enough that you can layer on a reemphasized topline focus without risk that you end up kind of breaking the back of the organization, so to speak.

And then if I could, just related both on question or two for Jon, first as -- and you may have said this -- but as you reaccelerate and reinvest can you maintain that 100% or so free cash flow productivity? And second, should we expect a volume-centric organic growth algorithm for 2017, similar to what we saw in Q4, or is there a reason for that to reverse as you move through the year?

DAVID TAYLOR: Several questions there. Let me first address the culture. Of all the transformation variables the one I most confident in is the P&G people are up for the challenge. I think we demonstrated this year, which is clearly the peak in terms of the Duracell transaction, the enormous complexity of the Coty transaction. Folks have risen to the occasion to be able stand up those companies while still sequentially improving the operating companies and while doing some of the heavy lifting in both the North American and European supply chain work.

So that's a very good point, and I think it's sounds we underestimates the amount of additional work beyond operating the businesses, but I think the heaviest load was this last fiscal year and for the next quarter. So the organization has demonstrated the resiliency, in our P&G survey the confidence the people have that the choices are right and the confidence they have and pride they have in P&G is at all-time highs, so were going to build off that and I have a lot of confidence in P&G people.

The second one on is productivity ingrained. My hope now is after five years of making the kind of improvement we have that we've demonstrated externally, and I believe internally, built the confidence that this is critical and a key enabler to getting back to the kind of balanced top and bottom line results we need. We certainly emphasize that, but as we've added some additional focus on bringing more users onboard, I think it's been very empowering to our people.

They see then the outcome of all the productivity work, leading into investments and brand building innovation, and that gives them confidence that the future of the Company is going to be strong.

JON MOELLER: On the guidance points, or your bolt-on questions, as I mentioned, we're targeting 90% free cash flow productivity or better, and the or better lands at about 100%, so somewhere in that range we'll deliver.

And relative to the volume-centric nature of sales growth, our current forecast for next year is very similar to the result that we delivered in the fourth quarter, in terms of its reliance on volume growth as the primary driver of sales growth. Obviously as we go through the year, depending on what happens with foreign exchange in markets and our need to price that can change, but as we sit here today it should look a lot like the quarter we just completed.

OPERATOR: Lauren Lieberman, Barclays.

LAUREN LIEBERMAN, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: I'm going to actually go fairly micro in terms of your portfolio, and I wan to talk a little bit about US fabric care, because I do find it really interesting the idea of what you've been able to do in the category in the last couple of years in terms of innovation driving category growth and P&G gaining share sort of an outcome, as being sort of the gold standard of what you'd like the whole portfolio to look like.

My one worry though is that more recently I feel like some of the innovation news is getting a little bit heavy on the strive for volume. So example would be on the odor release product line, why isn't driving incremental wash loads enough versus a needing to be three products that do the job of remove the odors. Same thing on the Tide pods, right? The advertising with two pods being chucked in the wash, which categorically wasn't the dosing recommendation when the product launched.

So if you can just talk a little bit -- I apologize for micro, but I think it's important on innovation driving category growth, and then when you sort of flipped the switch to push for volume in a way that doesn't feel quite as innovation driven.

DAVID TAYLOR: Laura, just a couple of comments. One, fabric care is a good example of what happens when we get all the elements working together, and you've see both the category growth and the share growth associated with it. On the specific comments we go where the consumer goes and expresses interest and/or frustration.

In the athleisure area is an area she has expressed frustration and so we're trying to address a very specific need some consumers have. And to date that's tested very, very well and we're actually quite excited about it bringing some additional users in, and it may lead to increased consumption for existing users, but both will be important, and I think it will grow the category a little bit as well.

The idea is very much to understand the needs consumers have and ensure we've got a product offering that meets them, and to the extent there is an unmet need we will continue to innovate. Each of the add-on products that we've had the last year, whether it's in the fabric enhancer or the base fabric care business, I think has demonstrated the ability to grow the category and grow the shares. So to date at least, I have not seen an indication that it is causing unneeded proliferation. In fact, if I step back and look across the Company we have meaningfully less SKUs today than we had a year ago. Many categories are down 10% to 20% in the number of SKUs they've offered, but what they are doing is trying to bring more meaningful consumer benefits to areas that are underserved or needs are unmet.

And then the last comment I'd make on the two pods instruction. If you look at consumer habits today, they have higher capacity washing machines. And some consumers are putting meaningfully more into each load. And what were trying to do is provide consumers the understanding of what is the best amount of detergent or number of pods to use to get ideal performance. In the US at least many consumers were underdosing. And this will allow consumers to get a much better outcome, and we've given them at least the guidance so that they do get the best outcome and then it'd be up to them certainly to choose what is right for them.

OPERATOR: Nik Modi, RBC Capital Markets.

NIK MODI, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: David, Jon, I would love your perspective. You guys have a lot of stuff going on, advertising increases, new incentive structures, delayering the organization, a focus on the go-to-market. If you would rank the impact that some of these initiatives have had on your topline acceleration this year, I'd be curious on kind of how you think about that. And then when you think about next year, how would you think about the ranking of those same types of initiatives for next year? I'm just trying to get understanding of things that you've put in place this year and if they're going to kind of accelerate the impact for next year.

DAVID TAYLOR: Nik, it's a good question. It's tough to give a Company answer. I'll give out just a couple of comments overall, but then it's very category specific. On restarting topline growth, I would first emphasize we're getting back to making consumers aware of the product and communicating the benefits, so making sure we were consistently having the reach and frequency needed with the right message was key. And we've also I think adjusted our communication, both to TV, digital and any way that's appropriate to reach target consumers, and I believe that will make a big difference.

A second area that is helping, and you're going to see continue and probably increase next year, is point of market entry and point of market change focused spending. We understand and we look back over several years, that had gone down on many categories and it was showing up in lower shares with entry point consumers, and that doesn't bode well for the future. And that's played out with some of the share losses that you and others have highlighted. The right way to build it back is to bring consumers in, and the best most effective way is to bring consumers into your category when they first have the need for the category. So we have prioritized point of market entry and point of market change and that will continue and increase. We gave the example on laundry. It's also happening in many other categories.

The second, which is critically important and that will play out consistently over time and more, even in the mid-to long-term, is the increased investment in innovation ensuring that we have products that have meaningful consumer, we'll call it consumer wow. We have adjusted our valuation of innovation to not just have technically superior products but to have products and brands that have a meaningful difference that consumers see and appreciate.

This higher bar is pushing us to go back on some of the innovations coming and ensure not only the product but also the package and the experience is at a higher level so that the consumer can play back its meaningfully different. And [un-example] of a test that we're using frequently is deprivation. Gives the consumer a product, we take it away and get their reaction. And if you get a really significant reaction, you probably have a product that really means something to the consumer.

So I would say the areas -- what we did focus on and I believe will be very meaningful next year would be point of market entry, continued consistent building of the appropriate reach and frequency and then consumer meaningful and appreciated innovation that has an impact on market growth, which is the last point I would want to make, is our innovation at times has been very focused at times to be a little bit better than our best competition. We've added the expectation for each of our categories [to build wall] is to grow the category size, as that it has meaningful impact both on the support we get from customers but also financial attractiveness of each of the innovations in the four categories.

JON MOELLER: Nik, I would agree with everything David just said. Stepping back at kind of a macro level on the kind of four pillars of transformation, productivity portfolio, topline acceleration, organization and culture. I think the benefit from those efforts is primarily ahead of us, so the portfolio we don't complete until October, and then we still have a bunch of transition work to do to execute that big transaction. We have not yet been able to operate as a Company in a 10-category focused fashion, so all of that benefit I think is ahead. Productivity we have benefited from and we will continue to benefit from. The acceleration, the investments really have just started in the last six months, and things like point of market entry, point of market change investments will increase as we go through next year, and frankly they take some time to pay out themselves, but the payout is significant.

I think the other change that is sometimes underestimated in terms of its importance are the organization and culture changes that David talked about. I think those will be significant, and frankly we're just putting them in place, so the new incentive system goes into place in July. We moved, as David said, to dedicated sales resources in North America. We're just aren't that move in some of the other big markets. So I think there's a lot of benefit ahead.

Last comment as relates to priority, these are all part of an ecosystem that's designed to work together to produce balanced topline, bottom line and cash flow growth, and I really like them because they think they are mutually reinforcing, as David said in his remarks. We get this topline growing that will generate cost savings in itself through topline leverage, which will then give us the ability to invest. We will have a motivated organization that is properly and strongly incented to deliver both. I think without getting ahead of ourselves here again a lot of the benefit still comes in the future.

OPERATOR: Olivia Tong, Bank of America.

OLIVIA TONG, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: I just want to get back to sort of the savings and the spending. Can you talk about the order of magnitude of spend in the four core categories in the two key countries relative to the other six verticals? And then also you mentioned the sales resourcing. I think you said 115 additional salespeople over the last two years. How does it compared to historicals? Can you provide magnitude of change there as well?

JON MOELLER: Sorry, Olivia, can you repeat the last part of your question? We missed that.

OLIVIA TONG: Sure, it's just around -- you had said sales resourcing, and I think you had said 115 additional salespeople over the last two years, if I got my numbers right. So I was just curious how that compares to historicals, last two years prior to that for example, just understanding the magnitude of change in terms of the salespeople.

DAVID TAYLOR: Olivia, let me start with the last one first on the sales increase. First 115 was for the US, and second if I look back and have at the last five years our sales coverage has gone down. So we've had meaningful productivity improvements in sales, but our collective assessment is we probably overshot that with the focus on field sales capabilities, especially in fast-growing channels. So if you went back and looked at the past three years, we were actually decreasing sales coverage. This year we added 115 and we're starting to see the impact. Jon talked about, it's starting to play out and the impact will grow over time. The first part of the question?

JON MOELLER: It was about the relative support for the top four categories and top two countries. We highlight those only because of their importance to the aggregate math, quite frankly. We can't get there without progress in those areas.

But all the portfolio focusing work we've done is designed to get us to a place where we feel we have the ability to win and want to drive those 10 categories. So in terms of the spending profile, if you will, it's not dramatically different across the other businesses.

DAVID TAYLOR: The one thing I would build on that one, on the 10 core categories, we're looking at each of those through the lens of the category and what it takes to win in this category. I don't compare across on saying this, all the categories get a 3% improvement or 1% reduction.

Instead we look at what does it take to win in that category and to be a top performer on the global category, and to me that lens has uncovered a lot of opportunities, and we're broken that down one step further to manage the Company by category, by country to make sure that we're showing up and being both competitive and appropriately resourced. So the resourcing levels will look different, but in general the 10 core categories we've chosen to stay with, we intend to win in those 10.

OPERATOR: Bill Chappell, SunTrust.

BILL CHAPPELL, ANALYST, SUNTRUST ROBINSON HUMPHREY: David, a question on kind of M&A just in general. First, just to be clear with the Coty transaction will you be completely done with all the divestitures? Will everything be done? Will you have a clear focus going forward by the time I guess we talk in November?

And then two, in terms of M&A acquisitions, are you open to looking at things like such as Dollar Shave or other things that might be in the market, or do you prefer to really have work with a more focused portfolio for the foreseeable future so that you can see the benefits of that focus?

DAVID TAYLOR: The answer to both your questions is yes. In terms of are we mostly done post the Coty close, the answer is yes. The heavy lifting on a portfolio will largely be done by the end of this calendar year and the Coty close is by far the last major step.

On your second question on am I open to M&A both on acquisitions that we think are strategic and would help accelerate the growth in any of our10 core categories, the answer is clearly yes. Our intent is collectively as a leadership team to grow our business from this point forward, and we believe we needed to make the choices that have been made and to implement the choices. You get the portfolio streamlined with the ten core categories, but in no way do we feel encumbered by any of the past. We're looking forward through the lens of each of the ten core categories, and M&A is a tool that is open to each president.

OPERATOR: Joe Altobello, Raymond James.

JOE ALTOBELLO, ANALYST, RAYMOND JAMES & ASSOCIATES, INC.: I just wanted to switch gears a little bit to China. Obviously some very nice improvement in the back half of the year, particularly in the fourth quarter. And I know you mentioned it's going to be a bit choppy, but could you give us what you are expecting for that market 2017, because that could be a nice contributor to organic growth if it does return to growth next year.

And then secondly, on the $18 billion in gross to net that you guys mentioned this morning and have mentioned in the past, it sounds like, and correct me if I'm wrong, you're not looking to take that number down but just to make it more productive. And if that's the case, maybe a little bit more color on the conversations that you're having with retailers in regard to that.

DAVID TAYLOR: First, let me just take a cut at the China, then Jon can comment a little bit on the $18 billion between gross to net, and I'm happy to comment on conversations that I've had with most of the leading customers. First on China, we see it sequentially improving. We're not done yet with getting our portfolio right in China. That will take time.

There are several categories that we are still losing share and we're not positioned with the appropriate portfolio in the premium and super-premium segments. We started with the Oral-B effort last year. We had some innovation also in fabric care, but each of the categories has stepped up both their innovation pace but also making sure they have on the ground resources in China to ensure the product and the package and the proposition have been fine-tuned to really win with Chinese consumers, and that will take time so I see that one building over time.

The other comment I would make on China, based a lot that I have heard and read is there's been a lot said about the attractiveness of China. Through our lens it continues to be extremely attractive. Jon mentioned some of the reasons why, but I'd also say the publish data often shows a very rapid slowdown and that is true in the off-line portion of the business. We see it growing in very low single-digits, and some categories are now flat in China.

Having said that, the online portion has accelerated and is certainly the double-digit that you see many categories 130, 140, 150 and what is encouraging to me is our online business is starting to accelerate. We're growing share the past six months, and we've at least now got a couple of our categories where our online share is higher than our off-line share, which bodes well for the future given the choice [consigning] Chinese consumers are making.

So it will continue to get better over time. Over the next 12 to 18 months, we'll see more and more innovation hitting that has been specifically designed for China versus adapted to be used in China, and I think that will increase our hit rate and our growth rate.

JON MOELLER: And on the trade spending, we certainly don't intend to make broad-scale cuts. That's not the design intent here. But what we do want to do is ensure that we are spending dollars both in the form of trade spending but also in the form of marketing in ways that maximize category growth which benefits both ourselves and our retail partners.

There are kind of three opportunities within that. One is just like with our advertising budgets including the agency and production costs, there are sources of inefficiency. That we can access without impacting the market in any way or our retail partners in a significant way. And we ought to go after those.

Two, ensuring that we're spending the money in a way that's most productive in terms of driving market basket both again for ourselves and our retail customers. And we have big opportunities there to sharpen the focus of where the money gets spent and again to the benefit of both our retail partners and ourselves.

And the third one is a little bit trickier, but we have some good examples of this already and we'll be testing others, is looking across the buckets of spend, beyond trade spending. There are cases where if we would reduce trade spending, shift that money to advertising or sampling, we may be able to increase the rate of growth in a category, again in a way that's beneficial to both our retail partners and ourselves. We did some of that for example on Olay in North America this year and got fairly broad support from that.

So you're absolutely right, we are not looking at -- I wouldn't use the word cut in the space, but there are opportunities to shape the spend in a way that both increases efficiency and increases effectiveness for both us and our retail partners.

DAVID TAYLOR: And to close on it, in conversations with the CEOs two primary requests. Number one, grow the category. Number two, improve your SKU productivity. Both of those we're working.

OPERATOR: Mark Astrachan, Stifel.

MARK ASTRACHAN, ANALYST, STIFEL NICOLAUS: I guess I wanted to ask sort of broadly about your thoughts on this acquisition of Dollar Shave, but more sort of openly, how do you think about digital and social reducing cost to competition in categories where Proctor has historically dominated? And how do you think about vulnerability of the business broadly and sort of specific areas?

DAVID TAYLOR: Just a couple of comments. The digital and social space to me is a powerful opportunity for any consumer marketing company, and its left to all of us to figure out how to best leverage the capability that has been developed and frankly continues to emerge rapidly.

P&G has shifted, significantly, its resources and our investments, to ensure that we are showing up with communication that wins mobile back, and that's a big shift for us and that's critically important, because whether it's e-commerce or whether it's consumption of media, in many markets it's now primarily through the mobile phone and more and more, you're seeing P&G winning with the marketing programs that are adapted for digital and social. And a good example of one of a social program that has done extraordinarily well is the Always Like a Girl, where we've leveraged that communication and that very strong social platform but used and leveraged the social media capability to drive the brand.

I do understand and certainly it is very real that the cost to enter a category has changed dramatically today versus 5 and 10 years ago. And part of what we are doing by category again is looking to see how do we leverage the capability that exists. I expect we'll continue to see competitors that can pop up, but generally to sustain and grow a business you have to have a product and a product experience that meets the consumer's need.

There are many, many examples of Internet-based competitors that have been popping up both here and China, a tremendous number of those that get trial. Repurchase though is another story, and repurchase and a profitable business model is the highest bar, and that's the one that we're working against. Which is to have a substantive product that meets the consumer's need, to have communication programs that meet consumers when and where they're receptive to the message, and understand they want less to be sold and more to be part of their life, and we're adjusting our marketing communication programs to do just that. And I think that's the right way by category to win.

OPERATOR: Jonathan Feeney, Consumer Edge Research.

JONATHAN FEENEY, ANALYST, CONSUMER EDGE RESEARCH: I just wanted to follow up on that, a little bit about e-commerce broadly. You talked about social media, digital media's opportunities, but e-commerce -- clearly the Chinese consumer seems to have skipped a generation as far as how they are behaving with e-commerce, and it's -- I think it's one of your major competitors up to like 13% 14% of their business in China.

I wonder, it seems like a lot of your other categories are susceptible, not just through vehicles like Dollar Shave Club, but through e-commerce broadly. Regular, but not awfully frequent purchase, not really impulses, not really impulse purchases. Managing household inventories. [To] a more comprehensive e-commerce strategy that could really get you ahead.

Do you have any thoughts about that, and could you talk about specifically about your e-commerce opportunities outside of China in big developed markets where maybe they're more -- there's more upside to come?

DAVID TAYLOR: One, I think you're absolutely right, e-commerce is growing in most of our markets. If I look at the top eight e-commerce markets for us in the world, it'd be US, China, UK, Germany, Japan, Korea, France and India. On six of those eight we're now growing share on e-commerce, and it's because we have adjusted significantly to not see it as a separate activity but an integrated part of how we go and reach consumers when and where they are receptive to shop.

Our growth rate varies between kind of 110% up to the highest market we currently have is 185%. And the size for business, you mentioned China, some of our competitors have quoted more than10%. We're well above 10% of our business is on e-commerce and growing fast. And past six months we're up 0.7% share in e-commerce in greater China, or in China specifically. So yes, it is growing. We have established efforts in each of the major markets where it is a meaningful part of our business.

We now have five, six categories where it's over $100 million business and growing fast. And again in general we're at market growth or little bit higher on the majority of our markets, the top eight markets.

And then if I look even through the lens of customers, we're working very closely with any of the customers, whether it be bricks and mortars, omni-channel players or the pure plays to make sure we have the portfolio and the communication that wins with them. Whether it is the big retailers in the US or around the world, or whether it's the pure plays on Amazon, Jingdong or Alibaba, both we're trying to ensure that we show up having consumer shopper data that helps develop a category and that we have the product offerings to win, and again our results the last six months to me speak to the pivot that we've made to make sure we show up in that segment very, very well.

And the last comment I'd make is we're also ensuring that we adjust our packaging and our sizing to ensure we have the right offering for what consumers and shoppers want that shop in that channel, again looking through each category lens.

OPERATOR: Ali Dibadj, Bernstein.

ALI DIBADJ, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & CO.: I wanted to go back a little bit to price mix versus volume and sort of implications for the industry overall, please. Because overall in the quarter clearly your price mix was lower than I think expected, and it's really lower than peers given especially currency movements and inflation et cetera, but volume that came in a little bit higher. Even where you didn't have the kind of FX issues, your North America I think Jonny said, volume was up 3%, sales up only 2%, and you said that's the pattern we should expect going forward, so leading more in volumes than in price mix overall.

I guess I'm trying to figure what that suggests about the competitive environment that we should expect in HPC as you execute your turnaround plans. I'm even thinking about 2017, obviously mid-single-digit EPS growth suggests not a lot of EPS growth beyond Coty and Duracell. All of the cost savings you are talking about, all of that topline growth is going to be reinvested in the bottom line. It is going to be reinvested into the market.

So it feels like you're planning to win by outspending your competitors massively. Which sounds like it might be a little bit tough for everyone at HPC right now, and perhaps not sustainable longer term even for you guys. So I would love some help on figuring out what I am missing on that, because it sounds a little frightening right now.

JON MOELLER: I will start here. I'll let David chime in. If you look at price inclusive of promotion as a component of topline, we've been neutral to positive for 23 straight quarters and 12 consecutive years. And I don't think that relative preference in the drivers for business growth changes going forward.

But we've had two dynamics that we've been dealing with in the last year that kind of inform next year's view. One is, we've been pricing significantly to recover foreign-exchange impacts, which has resulted in volume being less of a component of the topline, in fact in many cases a negative component. We're hopeful that were going to be operating in a more stable currency environment so that volume negative goes away.

Also as you and others have rightly pointed out on several occasions, we've had category country combinations where our pricing got too high. In many cases that's what we were trying to recover from devaluation and competitors who didn't follow, in other cases David talked about Luvs in his prepared remarks, a major competitor took pricing down in that segment, and we will be adjusting prices to deal with those realities, which makes price in those instances less of the topline component and volume more of it.

We have no interest in spending unproductively. Our intent is to drive, as David said, category growth and we do not see the business in most parts of the world through a zero-sum lens in any way.

DAVID TAYLOR: The only other [bill] I would make is completely agree that the lens that we're looking at each category is what can we do in innovation and brand building, both of which are taking investments to grow the category both through the short, mid and long-term. We have not yet completed entirely and annualized the value investments that needed to be made, and it's the most acute in places like Russia where the differential impact we had was very severe for a US domiciled Company.

And you're seeing even Russia volume share has recovered and until we annualize that, it will show up with the dynamic that you highlighted, but there our front half was below 100% and our back half is double-digit. And especially the fourth quarter. That we will annualize and we get back to exactly what Jon said, which is our business model is very, very clear, which is we want to invest in innovation and brand building, especially focus the brand building and bringing consumers in and then we want to delight them so they stay with our brand.

And the spending is heavily focused there other than some selective value interventions, almost all driven by foreign-exchange and the category settling out to a place where we're back in an acceptable price corridor, and we're getting to the end of that.

JON MOELLER: I would just add one last piece of perspective. Many of us have discussed this previously. But you know, where we have a choice to spend a dollar on innovation, on brand building, building our equities or on promotion, I think David and I would both spend that dollar everyday on the first two items, and the reason is very simple. There is nothing proprietary in promotion.

It doesn't build sustainable advantage where the other forms of spending can, when we get them right. So I just offer that as reminder to how we think about the operations of the business.

OPERATOR: Kevin Grundy, Jefferies.

KEVIN GRUNDY, ANALYST, JEFFERIES & CO.: Question, David, on competitive dynamics in North America but specifically two notable transactions announced. You touched a little bit on the Dollar Share dynamic with Unilever. I wanted to ask that a bit differently, specifically are you anticipating greater investment there? It would certainly seem like given the scale that Unilever brings that that would be a reasonable expectation. Is that yours and is that contemplated in the guidance?

And then also if you could comment on Henkel's acquisition of Sun and specifically there, what's your expectation and do you see a more conducive set-up for pricing rationality now in US liquid, because we've seen episodic price wars through the years there, but now are we at a level of industry consolidation that should lend itself to greater pricing rationality?

DAVID TAYLOR: First, the Dollar Shave Club or Unilever's acquisition of the Dollar Shaving Club. We have already this year increased our support for our US shave care business and we'll continue to make sure we support it a level required to get back to growing.

The strategic choice we made that I highlighted earlier, which is very important and it should play out positively in spite of Unilever's acquisition of Dollar Shave Club is activating more than just the high end of the portfolio. Where we've been most vulnerable is at the mid and lower-tier, and if you look at our share losses that's where they've been most acute. And Dollar Shave Club has come in with in some cases a lower absolute cash outlay. Not a better performing product and actually not a better valued product when you look over time.

And for that reason we've have -- and we've had other challenges which I think are well known in private label and in disposable. So we've gone back and innovated on all three tiers and also addressed and now funded marketing programs and [developed three] disposable -- the Mach 3 segment both in innovation and brand support on the premium tier. To me, that will continue to be funded, that is anticipated our guidance. That's part of the base plan for FY17 for shave care.

Moving to the second one on fabric care, Henkel's acquisition of Sun, certainly we're very aware -- there was a lot of concern if you go back a year ago with Persil when it came in that that would have a real detrimental impact on our business. And the view we took then is the same view we take now, is there will be dynamics in the marketplace that could change and we will see how the category sorts itself out, but the way we're able to win is the same strategy going into FY17. Fabric care focused on consumers and shoppers.

They brought aggressive innovation to make sure that they're meeting the shopper's needs better than anybody else, premium performing products, and they did a great job communicating and sampling their products. And we see this fiscal year built into our guidance is increased level of sampling, and with a broader sampling program as well as the marketing program that is in place, and I just mentioned some additional innovation coming on the product front -- I think we're actually well-positioned and the objective going in independent of what happens in terms of industry consolidation is that we win with consumers and shoppers. And we will see how it plays out on the other point.

OPERATOR: Caroline Levy, Credit Agricole.

CAROLINE LEVY, ANALYST, CREDIT AGRICOLE: I have to go a little deeper on China please. You've got maybe five or six major categories, just looking at diapers, Olay specifically and hair. Could you talk about what product innovations or what level of product innovation you see coming, any sort of granularity would be helpful, because it seems in diapers the Japanese are discounting their product and there's a big shift in where things are bought.

In Olay we just haven't heard a lot recently, and in hair I think you've still got issues with your biggest brands there, so that would be helpful. Thank you.

DAVID TAYLOR: I will take each in turn. On all three, yes, there are innovation. Importantly innovations coming in FY17. Some of them they have not been announced, so I will not get into any specifics. Diapers, we know we've got behind in diapers and it shows up and it's one of the most acute categories in terms of share loss. Period.

The category is very -- understands it and the category as we focused on winning in China. We six, nine months ago made a choice that we were going to win in China and allocated the resources and the capital to ensure that we had the appropriate product innovation coming.

It's not yet publicly announced when some of these major innovations are coming, but on both diapers and pants we're very committed to win. An encouraging sign to me about the future in China is to look at what we've been able to do recently in Japan. Where in Japan you're seeing is now taking share leadership, and frankly we're losing to primarily Japanese competitors have done extremely well in China, as well as KC. And the innovation that we have coming over the next fiscal year and beyond, we think will position us well.

On Olay, our first step was to get our portfolio cleaned up. That's been done. If you step back and look at the four core collections on Olay, we're starting to see a meaningful difference, which is to me a very positive sign and that's Total Effects, Regenerist, our whitening segment and ProX, on those we see back half doing better than second-half. We still have to anniversary some of the discontinued SKUs.

And the second key innovation on Olay will be getting our counters right. Our counters, and having been to China many times and previously lived in greater China, our counters have gotten quite tired and have not been upgraded recently so we've shut down the counters that are in stores that aren't productive, and we've made meaningful investments in upgrading the counters in the stores that we think have a basis to -- places where we have a basis to compete. So counter innovation is coming, it's already happening, it is funded and showing up now. And the innovations will be coming on primarily the four core collections and then some new innovations that we will be bringing in.

The last category is hair. Hair is our largest category in China. We have meaningful innovations coming on both the conditioner that are superior, and I mentioned earlier, it's already been launched in the US and launched in China. It is superior performing. We have hair innovation coming on many of our brands. Pantene and Head & Shoulders, historically been stronger. VS is actually growing share, and we've got innovation coming on with [Joyce] which has been the weakest of our brands in China. So on each one of the brands there's focus. We've also made the choice, funded and staffed on the ground resources to ensure we keep up with the pace of innovation required in the beauty segment, which to me is an important choice about winning in the future in China.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, that concludes today's conference. Thank you for your participation. You may now disconnect. Have a great day.

DAVID TAYLOR: Thank you.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
prgml : The Procter & Gamble Company
   IN
i258 : Cosmetics/Toiletries | icnp : Consumer Goods | ipcare : Personal Care Products/Appliances
   NS
c151 : Earnings | cgvfil : Government Filings | gpersf : Personal Finance | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Financial Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
china : China | usa : United States | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020160803ec82001rx
  


 HD
 Q3  2016  Procter  & Gamble Co Earnings Call - Final
   WC
11,565 words
   PD
26 April 2016
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©016 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved. 

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good morning, and welcome to Procter & Gamble's quarter-end conference call. P&G would like to remind you that today's discussion will include a number of forward-looking statements. If you will refer to P&G's most recent 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K reports you will see a discussion of factors that could cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from these projections.

   TD
Also as required by Regulation G, Proctor & Gamble needs to make you aware that during the discussion, the Company will make a number of references to non-GAAP and other financial measures. Proctor & Gamble believes these measures provide investors with valuable information on the underlying growth trends of the business, and is posted on its website, www.PG.com, a full reconciliation of non-GAAP and other financial measures. Now I would turn the call over to P&G's Chief Financial Officer, Jon Moeller.

JON MOELLER, CFO, PROCTER & GAMBLE COMPANY: Thanks, and good morning. As David Taylor said on the press release we issued earlier this morning, we continue to make progress on the transformation we are making to return P&G's results to a balance of strong top-line growth, bottom-line growth and cash generation. We achieved a significant milestone this quarter in the transformation of the product portfolio with the exit of the batteries business. We delivered another strong quarter of productivity improvement and cost savings, and we increased investments in innovation, advertising and selling capacity to enhance our long-term prospects for faster, sustainable top-line growth and value creation.

We do continue to operate in a challenging and volatile macro environment. Market growth rates on both a volume and value basis have decelerated, due mainly to slower growth in developing markets. We entered the year expecting the market to grow close to 3% to 4% globally; we now expect 3%.

There are more flash points across the globe than at any time in recent memory, with significant economic and political instability impacting incomes and consumption in many large and important markets. Russia, the Ukraine, Egypt, Saudi Arabia and the balance of the Middle East, Turkey, Nigeria, Argentina, Venezuela, Brazil. We generate more than 10% of our annual sales and profit in these markets.

Currencies have weakened across the board since the start of our fiscal year. While the dollar has softened a bit recently, we still face up to $1 billion after tax net earnings impact versus a year ago, a $200 million increase since just the start of December. Across four years FX has reduced net earnings by about $4 billion after tax, nearly 40% of FY12 net earnings.

Against this backdrop we remain focused on large opportunities in our control, executing one of the largest transformation in our Company's history. Step changing cost and cash productivity, transforming our portfolio, strengthening our organization and culture, and reaccelerating top-line growth with strengthened category business models and innovation plans, and where appropriate, improved value equations.

This transformation is aimed at delivering balanced top- and bottom-line growth, and leadership value creation. I'm going to talk briefly about each of the transformation steps: productivity, portfolio, organization and top-line reacceleration before getting into the details of the quarter.

We continue to dramatically improve cost and cash productivity, with significant upside still ahead. Our original five-year cost of goods savings target was $6 billion. We expect to deliver over $7 billion by the end of this year, $1 billion or more above our initial target.

We've reduced manufacturing enrollment by 15% over the last three years. This includes new staffing necessary to support capacity additions. On a same-site basis, manufacturing enrollment is down 20%. We're targeting a 25% to 30% cumulative reduction by the end of FY17.

In February 2012 we announced that we would reduce nonmanufacturing overhead by 10% over five years. As of March 31, we've reduced these rolls by more than 24%, almost 2.5 times the original target. We expect to meet our latest target of 25% to 30% the end of this year, one year ahead of schedule. Including divestitures, we'll reduce non-manufacturing rolls by about 35% by the end of FY17.

We're reducing nonworking marketing expenditures, costs that do not impact reach, frequency or continuity of our advertising and trial generation programs. We were spending $2 billion per year on agency fees. Last we reduced the roughly 6000 agencies we work with by nearly 40% and cut agency and production spending by about $370 million. We are aiming for an additional $200 million of agency-related savings this year, reinvesting those savings in advertising and sampling of consumer-preferred products.

Net of reinvestments and innovation, selling, media and sampling, productivity has enabled us to deliver constant currency gross and operating profit margin improvement in each of the last three fiscal years, driving double-digit constant currency core earnings per share growth in each of those years. We're on track to improve gross and operating margins by triple digit indices, both including and excluding currency impacts again this fiscal year.

We're driving productivity up and down the income statement and across the balance sheet. Inventory days are down. Payable days are up.

Balance sheet productivity has enabled us to extend our long track record of very strong adjusted free cash flow productivity. 102% last fiscal year, 101% in Q1, 117% in Q2 and 105% in the quarter we just completed, even as we spend capital to transform our supply chain.

We continue to maintain our position as one of the strongest cash generators among competitive peers and comparable mega-cap companies. We're among the top companies in returning cash to shareholders. Over the past decade we have returned more than $118 billion in cash to shareholders through a combination of dividends and share repurchase.

We said four years ago that we needed to make cost and cash productivity part of our culture, as integral to our culture as innovation. We've made significant progress and we have significant opportunity. Our strong track record and our line of sight to additional opportunity both inform our intent to save as much as another $10 billion in cost over the next five years.

Our supply chain transformation is in its early stages, first in North America and Europe, then in Latin America and in India, Middle East and Africa. We are in an investment road now, with savings to start in three to four years.

Our new US [mixing] centers are up and running, putting roughly 80% of volume within 24 hours of store shelves. We're constructing multi-category manufacturing sites in geographically strategic locations to replace smaller single category sites in cost effective locations. We're upgrading and standardizing manufacturing platforms to lower cost and facilitate faster innovation. We're employing smart automation and digitization to improve manufacturing productivity [while] material and finished product logistics and demand planning.

We have additional opportunity to optimize working capital and further increase the efficiency of our capital spend. After two strong years of savings we'll enter next year still spending $1.5 billion in agency-related marketing cost, still more room to improve. We'll continue to look for efficiencies in working media with better advertising targeting and earned media campaigns with engaging content.

As we fully operationalize new focused 10-category Company there will undoubtedly be additional opportunities to increase organization efficiency, agility and speed of decision-making. Digitization will continue to enable smart productivity choices.

Finally, we will be working to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of our promotion spending. We currently spent about $18 billion in deductions between gross and net sales. We see clear opportunities to improve the effectiveness of the spend for both us and our retail partners and to improve its efficiency. So we are targeting up to $10 billion of additional savings over the next five years.

We expect to reinvest a significant amount of the savings in R&D and product and packaging approvals, sales capacity and in brand awareness and trial building programs to deliver balanced top- and bottom-line growth, and to create value for shareholders.

In addition to transforming our cost structure, we're transforming our portfolio. Over the past 18 months we have divested, discontinued or consolidated 55 brands, including the completion of the Duracell transaction at the end of February. We have 50 more brands in the exit process, including the 41 beauty brands in the transaction with Cody.

The S-4 registration statement for the beauty transaction was filed last week. We are on track to close the deal in the second half of the calendar year. It total we'll exit 105 brands and all the complexity they create. These brands represent only about 6% of FY13 profit.

Going forward we are anchoring our portfolio on 10 category-based business units and about 65 brands. These are categories where P&G has leading market positions and where product technologies deliver performance differences that matter to consumers. These 10 businesses have historically grown faster with higher margins than the balance of the Company.

Within these core businesses we're focusing our offerings, making smart choices for short-, mid- and long-term value creation, foregoing bad businesses, even when these choices create near-term top-line pressure. In Mexico, for example, we made a choice to discontinue low tier, unprofitable and commoditizing toilet paper products in favor of very profitable high tier differentiated products.

Sales are down 75%, but before-tax margins have improved by more than 50 basis points, from very negative to nicely positive. It will take a few more quarters for the top-line drag to dissipate, and we'll have a solidly value accretive business going forward.

In India we've made a choice to de-prioritize several unprofitable lines of business which negatively impact short-term top-line growth rates but will lead longer term to a much more profitable business that will grow strongly. The strategic portion of our India business is growing at a high single digit pace. Sales in the portion we're fixing or exiting have been down more than 30%.

This top-line pain is worth it. We are making significant progress in improving local profit margins, up about 700 basis points. We have gone from losing significant money in India to triple digit profits in just two years.

We're taking a similar approach in our fabric care product portfolio, discontinuing products forms, additives, bars, bleaches and tablets and the value tier detergents that have been a drag on profitability and value creation. These choices are causing a top-line drag of nearly 1 point on the global fabric care business, but profitability and the long-term attractiveness of the business improves.

Combined these choices are causing about a 1 point drag on organic sales growth. We expect this headwind to continue for the balance of the calendar year and then dissipate as we annualize more of the impacts. As we come out of this we'll have stronger top-line growth that is worth something on the bottom line.

We're transforming our organization and culture. We are making many changes that by themselves may seem small and obvious, but together are significant and important. As an example we've made several important changes in how we go to market. We eliminated overlapping resources and duplicative structures and responsibilities of marketing and sales professionals in the global business units and market development organizations, clarifying responsibilities and strengthening accountability. Reflecting this, we changed the name of the market development organizations to selling and market operations. Small, but very important.

We are increasing staff -- we're increasingly staffing leadership roles in the selling and marketing operations with leaders who have significant selling experience. We are changing our talent development and assignment planning to drive more mastery and depth. The objective is simple: improve business results by getting and keeping the right people in the right places to develop and apply deep category mastery to winning.

Consistent with this, we're dedicating sales resources to categories or sectors. In our larger markets, sales resource a greater accountability back to the categories they serve, which is a change. We're aligning incentives at a lower and more specific level of granularity to better match these responsibilities and to increase accountability.

Another example of the evolution of our thinking on the organization is what David talked about at CAGNY. He said that PG is fortunate to consistently source and develop strong talent, and that we intend to maintain our development approach. But there are times when the best talent for a role may not be inside our organization.

Going forward we're going to look at outside hiring more often when we need it to field the best team possible. The bottom line is that we are committed to getting, keeping and growing the right talent in the right place to better drive business results. Again, each of the changes may seem small and rather obvious but collectively they are big and important changes for our organization and culture.

A very important area of transformation is reacceleration of top-line growth. We expect to make progress in all 10 product categories, but we are putting specific emphasis against the four largest categories: baby care, fabric care, hair care and grooming, and the two largest markets: the US and China. These four categories represent over 60% of sales and profit. These two countries represent nearly 50% of sales and more than 50% of profit.

We are growing our fabric care business with consumer-preferred brands and product offerings, like our premium performance and premium priced unit dose detergents. And our market-leading and market expanding scent fabric enhancers.

We're exiting the slower growing, lower priced, more [commodized] product forms where it's more difficult to distinguish our products and create value. Fabric care results in the US demonstrates what's possible when we deliver superior value with best-in-class performance at a modest price premium. The US laundry detergent market is continuing to grow behind these efforts, with the category up more than 4 points on a value basis over the last three-, six- and nine-month periods.

The same is true for fabric enhancers. Spurred by the rapid growth of scent beads, the US fabric enhancers category is growing, up more than 6 points on a value basis over the last three-, six- and nine-month periods.

Our share is growing. P&G's laundry detergent and fabric enhancer value shares were up nearly 1 in the March quarter. We will continue to be the innovation leader in fabric care.

In North America we are introducing a new regiment on Tide and Downy that addresses the odor problems common to athletic wear. 70% of consumers wear athletic gear multiple times each week. The Odor Defense collection anchored by innovation on Tide PODS brings a proprietary formula of enzymes and surfactants that break down and remove stubborn soils and residues for a great clean and fresh scent. Paired with the added cleaning power of Tide Odor Defense Rescue laundry booster and Downy Fresh Protect Odor Defense beads, this regimen promises to eliminate odors from the fast growing market of athleisure clothes people are wearing far beyond the gym.

Next month we start are learning market on Tide Pure Clean liquid detergent in the US. Naturals is a large and growing segment in several categories, but naturals are only about 3% of the laundry category. Unlocking growth in naturals is about solving the tension between green and clean.

People want performance and sustainability. Pure Clean provides the cleaning power of Tide with 65% bio-based ingredients. And it is produced with 100% renewable wind power electricity in a facility operating with zero manufacturing waste to landfill.

We're launching better performing and more profitable new compact liquid detergents in Russia, Turkey, Mexico, Brazil and China. In Russia and Turkey where we launched superior compact liquid detergents early last calendar year, P&G share of liquid detergents are up 7 points and 14 points respectively.

We've increased sampling and new washing machines, a key point of category entry and change for consumers. Last fiscal year we distributed five million samples and washing machines globally. This fiscal year we'll distribute about 17 million. In calendar year 2016 we'll distribute 30 million samples of our best performing products.

In US baby care strong innovation, consumer communication, trial programs and a robust online presence have led to strong growth for Pampers. Pampers value share of US diapers was up more than 1.5 points last fiscal year, and was up 1 point in the March quarter. Pampers latest Swaddlers and Cruisers innovation extra absorb channels was off to a good start in the new calendar year with Swaddlers and Cruisers shares up more than 1 point in the last quarter.

We strengthened investments in brand awareness, and trial at the point of market entry. 70% of new moms in the US will receive samples of our best products through our prenatal, baby shower and hospital programs.

Last fiscal year marked the seventh consecutive year of sales and value share growth for the Luvs brand in the US. However, results have been down so far this year following a significant price reduction taken by our primary competitor.

We're taking steps to improve the awareness, trial and consumer value of Luvs. We're increasing equity building advertising, strengthening in-store programs, and have product and packaging improvements slated for launch next quarter.

Baby care results have been softer in other markets. To address this we've strengthened our value proposition in several markets and accelerated premium innovation on both taped and pull-on diapers to restore competitiveness at the top end of the market. We're strengthening our selling resources and programs for baby stores. And we are improving our point-of-market entry programs to deliver higher awareness and trial of Pampers among new moms.

In hair care we launched our new (inaudible) innovation on Pantene in the US last quarter. Pantene's new breakthrough conditioner technology delivers weightless conditioning, addressing the most significant consumer trial barrier in the category. The new conditioner innovation is a consumer blind test winner versus our best competition in North America, China and Japan.

We continue to strongly support Head and Shoulders, one of our steadiest and strongest growing brands, delivering over 8% compound average sales growth over the past 10 years, even with significant currency impacts. [NXLs] for Pantene and Head and Shoulders were each up high single digits in the US in the March quarter.

Gillette has delivered steady growth in international markets so far this fiscal year behind strong innovation, advertising and sampling programs. Gillette is holding or growing value share in each region outside the US. The growth in international markets have been offset by soft results in the US. To improve our growth and the growth of the market, we're investing in innovation, new user trial and improved consumer value.

We are expanding our performance advantage at the top end of the market. Our most recent cartridge innovation, Gillette Fusion ProShield, launched last quarter. ProShield with lubrication before and after the blades shields against irritation during every shave. Early consumption results in US have been tracking ahead of plan.

We are supporting a broader range of our product ladder from our best products, Fusion Flexible ProShield to Mach 3 to premium price and superior performance disposables with stronger consumer value communication. We're facing more aggressive competition at lower price points. And we will respond to ensure our brands remain a superior consumer value.

We've stepped up new trial activities in the US with our 18th birthday sampling program. We've put Fusion ProGlide FlexBall razors in the hands of nearly 80% of young men, over two million samples last year, a 33% increase over the prior-year level. We've now begun sampling the FlexBall razors handle and the ProShield cartridge, our very best combination of shaving technologies.

We are not standing still in the other categories. We delivered solid organic sales growth in US this quarter in the feminine care, family care and home care categories, all being profitable businesses for us. P&G continues to be the innovation leader in our US categories. In the High IRI Innovation Pacesetters Report just published, P&G had 4 of the top 10 innovations and 6 of the top 13.

Top innovations recognize for 2015 sales were Tide Simple Clean and Fresh, Always Discrete, Fusion ProGlide FlexBall, Venus (inaudible), Febreze Unstoppables, and Tide Plus Ultra Stain Release. Overall in the US organic sales were up 2%, in line with underlying market growth of our categories. Organic volume was up 3% for the quarter.

We're making progress in China, but there's still more work to do. We narrowed sales declines by half this quarter, and expect to improve again next quarter.

We recently upgraded our Pampers premium diaper pants to improve fit and softness. And we have new innovations coming soon on mid-tier pants and premium tape diapers.

Oral B super premium toothpaste launched in over 700 stores last quarter, reaching roughly a 5% share in those outlets. We'll triple distribution on this item this quarter.

Ariel is growing in China following the concentrated liquid detergent launch in January. Gillette Fusion FlexBall has driven male razor systems share growth over the past 3-, 6-, and 12-month periods. NSK 2 continues to deliver very strong growth with sales for the quarter up nearly 20%.

So some bright spots are emerging, but it will take time to get fully back to target growth rates. We are realistic that improvements in top-line growth won't happen overnight, and they won't happen in a straight line. But they will continue to improve over time.

Let me move now to the quarter we just completed and to the outlook for the fiscal year. Organic sales were up 1% for the quarter versus the prior year. The impact from the portfolio cleanup efforts I discussed earlier was about a 1 point drag on organic sales growth.

All-in sales were down 7% including a 5-point headwind from foreign exchange, 3 points from the combination of Venezuela deconsolidation and minor brand divestitures. Earnings per share were $0.86, down 3% versus the prior year.

Core gross margin increased 270 basis points. Core operating margin increased 300 basis points. This quarter's core earnings per share results included a net FX headwind of approximately $90 million after-tax, or $0.03 per share, comprised of a negative spot rate impact of about $230 million, which was partially offset by $140 million balance sheet revaluation impact in the base period that did not recur this year.

Venezuela continues to be a difficult market, and was also drag on March quarter results. At the beginning of the fiscal year we announced our decision to deconsolidate Venezuelan operations. We're no longer reporting sales or profits from products locally manufactured and sold in Venezuela.

We continue to recognize sales and profit on products sold to our Venezuelan subsidiaries from non-Venezuelan P&G entities. We highlighted at CAGNY that a disruption in our Venezuelan subsidiary's abilities to access dollars to pay for these imports of finished products could have a negative impact on our top- and bottom-line results.

We've been unable to access US dollars at any size since November. And as result, reported no sales or profit for Venezuela in the March quarter. This caused a 20 basis point organic sales growth reduction on the quarter. On the bottom line the total impact of Venezuela was $0.05 per share, or 6% in terms of core EPS. Assuming these financing constraints continue, the bottom-line impact on the year will be up to $0.10 per share, or minus 3%.

The core effective tax rate for the quarter was 27.2%, up 800 basis points versus last year, a $0.10 per share impact on core earnings per share, an 11 percentage point impact on core earnings per share growth. The base period tax rate was unusually low due to the geographic mix of earnings due to audit settlements. And the current period rate was inflated by a valuation allowance against net operating loss carry-forwards. These two items account for about 6 points of the 8-point change in the tax rate.

These three impacts, FX, Venezuela and tax, were a combined core earnings per share growth headwind of 20% this quarter. On an all-in GAAP basis our earnings per share were $0.97 for the quarter, up 29% versus the prior year. We generated $2.5 billion in free cash flow, yielding 105% adjusted free cash flow productivity.

We returned approximately $2.9 billion to shareholders this quarter through a combination of $1.9 billion in dividends and $1 billion in share repurchase. In addition we received approximately $4.2 billion of stock through the Duracell transaction.

Earlier this month we increased the dividend 1%, making this the 60th consecutive year the Company increase the dividend. The size of the dividend increase reflects FX headwinds, the cash impacts from streamlining and strengthening the business unit portfolio, and our plans to increase investments in the business to accelerate top-line growth.

Moving to guidance. Our outlook for the fiscal year reflects four large factors driving lower earnings in the fourth quarter. First, lower nonoperating income. We expect about $100 million less in the fourth quarter this year versus last year.

[Back into] tax. The Q4 tax rate will likely be again about 800 basis points higher than last year due to the geographic earnings mix and audit settlement benefits in the base period. Third, investment levels. We'll have a significant increase in advertising expense, coupled with continued reinvestment in R&D and selling capabilities.

Fourth, FX. We'll continue to see significant spot rate impacts on both top and bottom line in Q4. And unlike the last two quarters we'll not have offsets from base period balance sheet revaluation changes. Combined we expect these four factors to lower Q4 net earnings by more than $800 million and reduce core earnings per share by more than 32% versus the prior year.

For the fiscal year we are maintaining our outlook for organic sales growth of in-line to up low single-digits versus FY15. As I mentioned our outlook assumes we'll no longer benefit from sales of finished product to our deconsolidated subsidiaries in Venezuela. This will be roughly a 30 basis point drag on Q4 organic sales growth.

In addition, the roughly 1 point drag from the core portfolio clean-up will continue into Q4. We expect FX will have a 6 to 7 percentage point impact on all-in sales growth for the fiscal year.

Also the combined impact of the Venezuela deconsolidation and minor brand divestitures will have a 2 to 3 percentage point drag on all-in sales growth. Taken together we expect all-in sales will be down high single digits versus FY15.

We continue to expect constant currency core earnings per share growth in the mid-single digits for the year. Foreign exchange will reduce net earnings by approximately $1 billion versus the prior year, resulting in a 9 percentage point, or $0.35 per share, impact on core earnings per share growth for the year.

With one quarter left in the year we are tightening and improving our core earnings per share guidance range from down 3% to 8% to down 3% to 6%, which puts the midpoint of the range at $3.59 per share versus last year's core earnings per share of $3.76. Fiscal year earnings per share guidance includes headwinds of 10 percentage points from the combined impacts of beauty deal expenses, Venezuela deconsolidation, lower nonoperating income and a higher tax rate.

Adjusting for these items our guidance translates to modest core earnings per share growth with meaningful growth excluding foreign exchange. We expect the core effective tax rate to be 25% or higher for FY16, more than 4 points higher than last year, roughly a 6-point headwind on core earnings per share growth.

We are raising our fiscal year outlook for free cash flow to 100% or more of adjusted net earnings. We expect to reduce outstanding shares at a value over $8 billion through a combination of direct share repurchases and the shares that were exchanged in the Duracell transaction.

In addition we expect dividend payments of more than $7 billion. In total, $15 billion to $16 billion in dividend payments, share exchanges and share repurchases. We expect all-in GAAP earnings per share to be up in the range of 46% to 51%.

Moving briefly to 2017. David is going to join me on our next call, scheduled for Tuesday, August 2, to discuss our plans and outlook for FY17. We're currently in the early planning stages for next year, and will give guidance on the next call. But there are a few things to keep in mind as you review your estimates between now and then.

We expect improvements in organic sales growth, but core portfolio cleanup will still be a headwind. Venezuela will be a drag on the first [two] quarters of the year. If currency exchange rates hold steady through next fiscal year, FX should be much more manageable than it's been for the past few years but we'll still have a headwind on both the top and bottom line, particularly in the first two quarters.

Likewise if commodity costs hold at recent levels we'll continue to see a modest tailwind in the first half or so of next fiscal year. We'll be increasing investment in R&D and product and packaging programs, in sales capacity and in brand awareness and trial building programs to accelerate top-line growth in a responsible and sustainable way.

We'll defend the relative consumer value of our brands, and invest to address value gaps if and when they emerge. We'll do everything we can from a productivity standpoint, and will continue delivering on our commitment of cash return to shareholders. There'll be an EPS benefit from shares eliminated with our category exits, although the exact amount of which will depend on when we close the Cody transaction. Well obviously give more specifics on all of this in our next call, but we thought it might be helpful to offer you these early thoughts.

To sum up, we continue to make progress on returning P&G to balanced top- and bottom-line growth. We're nearing the completion of the portfolio transformation. We have created and are sustaining strong cost savings and cash productivity momentum. We're strengthening the organization and culture. And we're investing to accelerate top-line growth.

That concludes our prepared remarks for this morning. As a reminder, business segment information is provided in our press release and will be available in slides which will be posted on our website, www.PG.com, following the call. Now I'll be happy to take your questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions)

Olivia Tong, Bank of America Merrill Lynch.

OLIVIA TONG, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Good morning. Thanks. Jon, you mentioned that advertising was up 120 basis points. And it's been a while since we've seen an increase of this magnitude in the ad line. So is this a level we should expect going forward, or does it still move materially from here? And then price overall came in. So how much of that was incremental promotion step-up in sampling that you are doing and things like that? Perhaps you can break out what the impact of price was between developed and developing markets was out there?

And lastly, you tightened the core EPS range, as you mentioned. But given that there's just one quarter left in the year. But you the full year organic sales target unchanged, which obviously implies an incredibly wide range for Q4. So maybe can you refine your expectations a bit there in the main factors that impact where you fall within that range? Thanks a bunch.

JON MOELLER: Well first of all, congratulations Olivia on the birth of your child and welcome back to work. You are coming back strong with four questions in one. It is great to have you back.

In terms of the advertising rates, we were up about, I think, 130 basis points in the quarter. We expect to be up about 140 basis points on the second half. So there'll be some sequential strengthening of that comparison as we move forward. I try to say 8 or 9 times in our prepared remarks that we will be investing to grow our top line. We'll be funding that with productivity and bringing the bottom line with that.

There has not been a significant increase in the percentage of our business being sold on promotion, nor has there been a significant increase in the depth of those promotions. We have in several markets used sales deducts as a way to adjust pricing back to competitive levels where we've got -- where we took more of a price increase than our competitors ultimately did. So you'll see that impact. And I would just think about price adjustment and value gap closures as being the explanation for the change in the price components of the top line.

And as for fourth-quarter guidance, we just provided it. It is what it is. I think that the range, you rightly point out is a wide one. That's the reality of the world that we are operating in, with very significant volatility, whether it is input costs, FX, geopolitical and geoeconomic dynamics and the consumer impacts of things like oil prices. We're going to be living with that volatility for the foreseeable future.

OPERATOR: Steve Powers, UBS.

STEVE POWERS, ANALYST, UBS: Great, thanks. Jon, I think you called out $18 billion in gross to net spending, which is close to 27%, [28%] of your expected net revenues this year. And so first, can you confirm that I heard that right? Second, assuming that I did, can you just talk about how that spending rate compares to maybe 5 or 10 years ago, because I think is up significantly? And then third, I'm curious how you assess the ROI in that spending? And as you optimize it going forward, how much opportunity do you see to reduce it? And then of that reduction, how much is likely to get reinvested elsewhere in the P&L, as we think about the next several years? Thanks.

JON MOELLER: Yes Steve, you got the number right. It is $18 billion. Yes, it has increased over time, driven in part by expansion of modern retailers on a global basis who've brought that business model with them to other parts of the world that previously were, for example, largely distributor and wholesaler markets.

There is significant opportunity within that bucket of spend to first and foremost increase its effectiveness, ensuring that we're spending it in ways that drive category growth on a sustainable basis as opposed to short-term pantry-loading, for example. Shifting spending to our best product offerings to increase the trial and repurchase rates of those items with consumers, again not driving so much the -- in some cases the lower end of the portfolio. The vehicles that we use to communicate in-store and how those are constructed and utilized in conjunction with our retail partners. So there are just massive opportunities to improve the effectiveness of that spend as we work to reaccelerate the top-line growth.

There also efficiency opportunities. And this one of those unique and wonderful costs, if there is such a thing, where if you are able to reduce it, benefits both the top line and the bottom line. But we will be very judicious as we do that. Again really wanting, where we have opportunities, to shift that from ineffective spend to effective spend as the primary activity in the space. But I'm convinced with an $18 billion spend we have efficiency opportunities.

OPERATOR: Bill Schmitz, Deutsche Bank.

BILL SCHMITZ, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Hi, Jon. Good morning.

JON MOELLER: Good morning, Bill.

BILL SCHMITZ: Can you give us more color on the reinvestment strategy? So you talk about the increase this quarter and next quarter, but how long will the advertising restoration period last? Where are you going to focus? I think you talked about hair care, laundry in diapers to start. And then what are you trying to achieve, because I think maybe the last two or three years you kind of said market share is not a primary driver of the business, it's really about growing the categories profitably. But does that change as you feel more pressure to close the gap in organic growth versus your peers? Frankly, I think the scoreboard you have is organic growth, right? So I think that's obviously really important. And then really quickly, just a housekeeping item. I know you are not -- you don't have the exact numbers, but can you give us a rough cut on what you think the earnings upside is from both the Duracell and the Cody divestitures?

JON MOELLER: That's a very important question, Bill. How do we think about the top-line growth and what are we trying to achieve there, and what's the -- how do you think about the different metrics, whether it's category growth, organic sales or market share. First and foremost, we need to accelerate our top-line growth rate, and there's no debate about that. The reason that we've talked a little bit about not following share out the window, we can be gaining shares in categories that are declining, and that's not going to grow our top line.

What we need to be doing as innovation leaders in our categories is getting the market growing through that innovation and gaining a share of that growth. That's exactly what we're doing in fabric care in the US, for example. And it is taken a while, but it's worked extremely well. And the category is growing 4%. We're getting a disproportionate part of that growth. And that's what we are looking to do across our product categories.

So it is bringing innovation to the market which grows categories for the industry, for our retail partners, and allows us to gain a little bit of share in the process. Look, we need to be growing at the rate of the market or better. But market growth is an important element of that in terms of how attractive that growth ultimately ends up being. So it is kind of -- it's all of the above.

In terms of earnings per share upside from Duracell and Cody, I think we've talked before that we plan to be non-dilutive from day one. We've been working for two years on the stranded overheads that are going to be created as a result of this. And we also expect that the portfolio that were we are going to be left with is a healthier, stronger portfolio that will grow and will grow more profitably.

OPERATOR: Lauren Lieberman, Barclays.

LAUREN LIEBERMAN, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Thanks. Good morning. I'm not sure if you fully answered what Bill had referenced in terms of a reset on advertising spending. So I'm guessing he's still looking for some color on thoughts around reinvestment, and maybe extending beyond just it being about advertising but also the investments in product quality and packaging and timeline for that. I also wanted to get color on your comment on consumer value investments, particularly in Gillette in the US and baby in the US.

I just -- in Luvs, I wonder about how you think about Luvs pricing versus private label and positioning. Then for Gillette, just it seemed like you were talking about the lower end of were you compete in the industry and category, but anything else you can share there would be great. Thank you.

JON MOELLER: Thanks for the save it for Bill there, Lauren. Sorry, I did miss that. As I said in the early remarks, we are reinvesting in not just advertising. I went through three examples of sampling to generate trial, getting our best products in the hands of consumers. That's a significant portion of investment. I mentioned as well expanding our sales capacity. That's happening across some of the newer channels, but also in our existing channels. Dedicating sales coverage to individual categories and sectors, which has required and will require some investment. So it is broad-based. You mentioned package. There are core opportunities to continue to improve our first moment of truth, which is a lot about the package. And we'll continue to do that as well.

In terms of specific numbers for next year across those buckets, we are in the early stages of putting a plan together for next year. But our intent is clear, I think. And as I said, we will we will continue to work to fund those investments through continued productivity savings as well.

On value equation, there's really no change here in terms of our intent to be competitive across price tiers on big businesses that matter and big markets that matter. And clearly that involves grooming in the US. You mentioned baby in the US. I'm not going to get into specifics about the pricing moves that will be made. I'm not allowed to do that by law. But we will be competitive. I don't think, in fact -- well, I will leave it there.

OPERATOR: John Faucher, JPMorgan.

JOHN FAUCHER, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Thanks. Jon, you mentioned improvement in profitability, I think it was in India, over the past several years. It was mostly coming from, I think, improved manufacturing logistics and local markets. Can you talk about the state of that process? And are there still markets in emerging markets where you're losing money where you could benefits from moving that? And then I guess on the flip side of that, volumes have been weak generally. And so how do you deal with some of the stranded manufacturing capacity in some of the major markets where you've been producing this product? And is that piece of the productivity we've been seeing for the past couple of years? And then how long do you think it takes to get to a more sustainable operating margin in some of these emerging markets on a broader basis? Thanks.

JON MOELLER: On the broad question of developing market margins and steady-state, I cannot answer that without getting into, unfortunately, FX. The answer to the question involves what happens to foreign exchange rates going forward. For prospective, we've been growing constant currency earnings in developing markets well ahead of constant currency sales. Going back three years ago, 2 times. The year after that, 4 times. Last year, 8 times. This year 8times. And that reflects the things that you are describing in terms of the supply chain.

It also reflects the overall productivity program and its benefits in the developing market. And it reflects a lot of work that we've been doing on our portfolio, as I described in our earlier commentary. The biggest driver of the really nice profit improvement in India has been that portfolio work. So it is all of that.

In terms of volume and the impact it is had on our fixed cost rates, if you will, in the supply chain, it is definitely had an impact. The good news is that we're right in the middle of a supply transformation. That's going to be multi-geography in nature. So that gives us an opportunity where we need to, to rationalize that fixed cost infrastructure. At the same time, hopefully the main benefit going forward in terms of that is reacceleration of volume in sales.

OPERATOR: Nik Modi, RBC Capital Markets.

NIK MODI, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Yes, thanks. Jon, just can you provide some context on where within the P&G organization are the pricing decisions made? And have those decisions changed, or are you planning to change who dictates local market pricing for new innovation and the core portfolio? Any context on that would be helpful.

JON MOELLER: There are kind of two forms of pricing decisions, if you think about it. One is what I will call strategic pricing choices. That's the establishment of the pricing strategy, the price corridors you want to hold between markets, the price corridors you want to hold between competitors, whether they be branded or retail competitors. Those choices are made by our global business units who have representation in both regions and countries., More representation in regions and countries then at the global headquarters. These are people who are very close to what's happening in the marketplace in terms of consumption, in terms of trade customers, in terms of competitors and consumers. And then there's tactical adjustments that occur on a routine basis as each day and week unfolds. And we are trying to give more flexibility to resources located closer to the action to move agily there as they need the need to. So we are going hopefully achieve the best of both. And we will see how that works going forward.

OPERATOR: Wendy Nicholson, Citi Research.

WENDY NICHOLSON, ANALYST, CITI INVESTMENT RESEARCH: Hi, good morning. Two questions. First of all, can you talk a little bit more about China? I know you said that your business is showing some signs of improvement, down not as much given some of the premium price innovation you are doing. But how confident are you in the strategy of pursuing what sounds like almost exclusively premium price innovation, because it does sound like from some of the other competitors out there that there's also pricing competition going on in some of your big markets. If you could talk about China more broadly and the strategy there, that'd be great.

Then my second question has to do with your comment that I think we've heard -- I mean, I think we heard from Bob McDonald a few years ago, that P&G was increasingly open to hiring from the outside. And I know we've had certain partnerships in R&D stuff. But in terms of actual physical new hires, outside of legal and tax and HR, I cannot think of anybody on the business side who you actually have bought it from outside. So I know you've been saying that for a long time, are there particular areas where you think that is a priority? Is it marketing? Is it something in specific businesses? And why say it for so many years and then not have it actually happened? Thanks.

JON MOELLER: First on China. I'm glad you asked the question you did, Wendy. That bit middle of the portfolio is very important. And we are not losing sight of that. We have fantastic positions in that portion of the market which we intend to maintain and build. But we also want to take advantage of the higher growth portion of the market, which is currently the premium tiers. 50% of consumption is currently in those tiers across our categories. They are growing at high single to double digit rates. And we obviously want to participate in that, not only for the sales and volume benefit but also for the equity halo that it provides to our brands. So it is clearly and strategy, not or strategy.

Your question on our approach to bringing in talent from outside the organization, I think David was very clear about that at CAGNY, that we are going to maintain broadly our promote from within and develop from within, most importantly program. But we are going to put the right people, the best people in jobs across the organization. And when that requires that we go outside, we will do that. We have, for example, hired a number of experienced salespeople. I mentioned building our sales capacity. As we are dedicating selling organizations to categories and sectors, there are cases where we can find more experience outside the Company, people who have had 10 years experience in a category where we may be underrepresented. We are bringing those people in. The whole area of digital marketing and media, where we need resources we are either partnering with agencies who have that capability, in some cases we are bringing it in.

I don't think that's limited to any portion of the organization. That includes line management and -- but we're going to approach this deliberately. Having someone come in just for the sake of having them come in and being able to say that we are making progress there is obviously not something that interests us very much. But having the right people in the right jobs, bringing mastery to help us win across the board, we're definitely committed to.

OPERATOR: Dara Mohsenian, Morgan Stanley.

DARA MOHSENIAN, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Hi, good morning. Jon, as you look out to FY17, are you expecting to be able to recover some of the net negative historical GAAP between FX and pricing from the last couple of years through pricing or with the lower commodities and at least less onerous FX, is pricing not expected to be a large factor next year? Then also was just hoping for some commentary on if you are confident that you will see any an equivalent level of volume rebound going forward as the overall level of pricing decelerates? Thanks.

JON MOELLER: Thanks, Dara. I would expect pricing to be less of a dynamic next year than it has been the last two years, simply because at current spot rates FX would be less of a dynamic next year than it has been the last two years. I also mentioned that in some cases where we've had large gaps emerge we'll be working to close those. But we are still seeing significant devaluation in some markets. There's still situations where we're going to be taking additional pricing where we feel that will be matched. So we'll continue to be a dynamic, but a little bit less going forward.

On the volume piece, I certainly don't have a crystal ball but if I look at what's happened historically, that volume has come back over time. And sometimes it depends on the market, volume reacceleration in markets like Latin America has been fairly quick. In other markets, for example Russia, the last crisis it took us three years to get back from a volume standpoint. So we will have to see.

OPERATOR: Bill Chappell, SunTrust.

BILL CHAPPELL, ANALYST, SUNTRUST ROBINSON HUMPHREY: Thanks, good morning. Just two things. One on the US shaving business, can you give us a little more color? That's a focus area, both the US and shaving. You've had new innovation. But do you see signs that as we move through the quarter, as we move into next year that the growth dynamics can change and maybe follow more like laundry? And then also maybe for a bigger question. I understand that next year's still kind of a transition year and you're stepping up advertising and marketing. How long does it take to get to your growth algorithms, excluding stuff like a Russia or a global crisis, per se?

JON MOELLER: In terms of grooming, this is really primarily driven by two things. One is the market, as you rightly point out. And the other is some of the promotion at primarily the lower end of the portfolio. If you look at the past three months, market consumption and track channels was down 4%. That's largely due to lower shaving incidences. And also that number, just the math of that number, doesn't pick up the volume from direct sellers. And that's had some impact on that track channel number as well. We estimate that total market growth inclusive of e-commerce sales is slight -- flat to slightly going versus a year ago, and that's an improvement versus where we have been.

The top end of our portfolio is doing very well. ProGlide cartridges sales grew 18% last fiscal compared to a 7% decline in the overall market, and those kinds of trends are continuing. As I mentioned, we need to do more work on the lower end of the portfolio. We also need to be more present, and we are, in the direct-to-consumption e-commerce channels. And we need to bring innovation equally across the portfolio and marketing equally across the portfolio, which we are committed to do.

OPERATOR: Javier Escalante, Consumer Edge Research.

JAVIER ESCALANTE, ANALYST, CONSUMER EDGE RESEARCH: Good morning, everyone. Jon, I think that it would be helpful if you give us a sense of a very top-line way, volume and pricing between develop and emerging markets. I know that the US was up 3%. But I would like to know what's happening with Europe as well. And how was the aggregate growth in emerging markets?

In emerging markets, how much of that has been -- continues to be destocking in China, or there's any other one-time in terms of wholesalers dynamics that is impacting your growth in developing markets? Again in China, why does destocking is so protracted? Shouldn't you be better off to just purge the wholesalers' inventory and just (inaudible) roll out whatever innovation that you have? Thank you.

JON MOELLER: In terms of a breakdown between developed and developing Javier, volume in developing was down 5%. In developed it was up 3%, which is really strong, by the way. Organic sales growth in developing was down 1% and developed it was plus 2%. So obviously price mix then deductively was plus 4% in developing and minus 1% in developed.

In terms of the trade stocking issue in China, we are making progress. As I said, our rate of decline was halved in the quarter, and in many categories we've returned to growth. We are doing everything we can to bring that back in a responsible way and we'll continue to do that.

OPERATOR: Mark Astrachan, Stifel.

MARK ASTRACHAN, ANALYST, STIFEL NICOLAUS: Yes. Thanks and good morning, everybody. I know you don't want to give too much detail on FY17. But you talk about expect organic sales growth to improve in the year. I guess given FX headwinds in the first half and your prior commentary about not focusing on market share given FX headwinds, is it fair to say that any share improvement then would be back-half weighted? And then more broadly, how should we all think about reinvestment required to return the business to top-line growth? And you talk about all this reinvestment on a go-forward basis, but is there some way that we can quantify it or measure it, not just in terms of what advertising spend is on a quarter-by-quarter basis? But is there some sort of bogey out there or benchmark that helps us figure out basically where you are headed?

JON MOELLER: Fair question, Mark. Unfortunately I have a difficult time answering that as we sit here today. We're literally just beginning the process of putting our plans together for next year. To give you some insight into that process, though, we're going to go through each of the large category/country combinations and assure that we are efficient in terms of our investment to change the growth profile and ideally to grow at the market. And then as we go through the year, try to improve that.

I'm not going to call a quarter in which that's going to happen. It is going to take time, as I said in the prepared remarks. It's not going to be a straight line. But I think we will see improvement over time. There is no bogey in terms of a number related to investment. This is strategic planning at the category/country/brand level that we are just beginning to do. You have seen the increase investment profile in the back half of this fiscal year. That's the only one I really have real insight into at this point. And I certainly would not expect the investment levels to be lower as we go forward into next year.

OPERATOR: Joe Altobello, Raymond James.

JOE ALTOBELLO, ANALYST, RAYMOND JAMES & ASSOCIATES, INC.: Thanks. Good morning, guys. First question. In terms of the 1% organic growth, can you tell us how that compared to consumption? I know it was a deceleration from last quarter, but last quarter you shifted a little bit ahead of consumption. So I was curious if that evened out in this quarter. And then secondly, just going back to Bill Chappell's question for second. What is P&G's long-term algorithm right now, given the changes in the portfolio? And how quickly can you get there? I imagine 2017 is probably too optimistic, but could we see a return to that by FY18? Thanks.

JON MOELLER: In terms of the relationship between consumption and shipments, you are right. We've said in January that for the December quarter there was a little bit more selling than consumption. And you see that reflected in the third quarter. That's where that really reversed itself and evened out. So I think we are in the steady state at this point in the process. I think that's also an important point in understanding the difference between the 2% last quarter and the 1% this quarter in terms of organic sales growth. That and Venezuela really explained all of that change. So thanks for asking that question.

I think it would be -- in terms of the long-term algorithm, that has not changed. We want to be growing with the market to slightly ahead of the market. And we believe that with the continued productivity progress, that should translate into mid to high single digit earnings per share growth. I do think that getting back fully to that algorithm next year would be difficult. But again, we are just beginning to put our plans together.

OPERATOR: Jason English, Goldman Sachs.

JASON ENGLISH, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Good morning, folks. Thanks for squeezing me in. There we go. Can you hear me?

JON MOELLER: Yes, Jason.

JASON ENGLISH: All right. I'm going to ask a multi-part question as well. First, coming back to top line, you mentioned category growth slowing from, I think, 3% to 4% to roughly 3%. How much of that is volume related versus price related? And per your comments on the forward with FX, if it holds, commodities, if they hold, potentially price abating, should we expect global category growth to slow even further?

The second question was on the savings target. This could just be matter of semantics, but I heard you say up to $10 billion. So should we consider to $10 billion as the cap, and a bit of a stretch goal that may not be achieved? And also on the supply chain side, you mentioned upfront investment savings will build in 3 to 4 years. Should we be thinking about the delivery against those savings as being further out, so a bit more protracted than what we've seen over the last $10 million?

JON MOELLER: Great. So from a -- if I just look at the difference between value growth and volume growth in markets to get at your question of how much of it is pricing. In developed markets, if I just look over the past year basically, volume growth has actually accelerated a little bit, going from 0% to 1%, value growth is unchanged at about 1%. And in developing markets value growth has gone from 9% to 6%. Volume growth has gone from 2% to 1%. So I think with those that set of numbers you can put the picture together that you are looking to put together.

In terms of the savings target and the semantics around up to, that's -- those are the words we've used since we first started talking about this back at CAGNY. And that doesn't imply a cap. There's no reason to cap. But it does imply a range of outcomes. And last time we said $10 billion we over-deliver that. So again, there was no cap. I think $10 billion's a good number to shoot for. And I'm sure we will get somewhere close to that, if not there. You may recall a conversation that some of us were having four years ago on this topic. And there was a lot of concern about whether we would actually get to $10 billion. And I said again, that's the right number to shoot for and if we only get to $9 billion, I'm going to be pretty happy. And I look at it the same way this time around. So really no change there.

On the supply chain transformation, that together portion of the savings will be -- will come later, as we've indicated since we started talking about supply chain transformation. I would not take that as indicative of the entire program. Last time around it was pretty evenly paced across the fiscal years. That's not the design attempt. That's just how it fell. I don't see a reason for it to fall significantly different than that this time. Remember though, and I know you know this. We're going to be reinvesting a lot of these savings, and on a relative basis more of that investment acceleration, if you will, will occur in the early years. And then as that gets fully in place, it'll obviously have less of a year-to-year impact.

OPERATOR: Ali Dibadj, Bernstein.

ALI DIBADJ, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & CO.: Hey, guys. I actually appreciate the tradition of always giving me the last word on the call. It's a sign of respect for our work. So two things. One is, I know you are pretty reluctant to talk about 2017 guidance on this call. But it would seem that analysts and investors have at least been interpreting some sort of message from you guys, given many EPS numbers have come down over the past month or so. And significantly more negatively, it would seem, than Jon, some of the messaging you've talked about, at least on this call.

So I'm trying to get a sense, especially with the Cody benefit, or the share retirement benefit. So I'm trying to get a sense of a recap of your thinking on 2017 in terms of reinvestments and returns. Because clearly there some message that's being interpreted out there. And if you can balance the quote, unquote continued progress that your CEO says versus the not straight line that you mentioned and give us a little bit more color, I think it would be appreciated. Because there are some message getting out there clearly.

The second question is, Jon you joked a few years ago that you wouldn't want to be CFO of P&G at a time where the dividend didn't grow. And I think we are all collectively glad that it did grow. But can you give us some more color on the 1% dividend increase? Shareholders have been waiting around for you guys for quite some time. You've had some very challenging times, the macros have been very challenging. Others in your peer group suggest that they increase their dividend a little bit more aggressively than yours. I get your dividend yield and I get you payout ratio. What would, in the end, be the true cost of a slight ratings downgrade here to reward shareholders a little bit more aggressively? Thanks for those two.

JON MOELLER: In terms of the message that's being interpreted externally, I personally have a hard time sorting through that, simply because of the very wide range that exists in estimates right now. So I'm not sure what message is being received. In terms of the message we are providing, it is very much the one you describe to David just a minute ago, which is continued progress on both the top and bottom line as well as our cash flow. And obviously we want to accelerate all of that as quickly as we are able, but do it in a sustainable, responsible way. And as I indicated we are just putting our plans together for next year ago and we will see what amount of progress we make.

Our competitors don't sit still. Markets are volatile. And so that's where the not straight line comment comes in. I just think that's a reflection of reality. The Cody benefit in terms of the share retirement will depend on exactly when those shares get retired. But there should definitely be a benefit associated with that. And we view that as is part of the overall equation.

In terms of the dividend increase. As you know, we are very committed to the principle of cash return to shareholders. Over the last 10 years, as I mentioned earlier, we've returned $118 billion. This year between our dividend, share repurchases and share exchange we'll effectively return $15 billion to $16 billion. There is not a lot of juice, if you will, to the amount of cash available from a borrowing standpoint between our current credit rating and one or two notches down. So to do that to the credit rating for a small amount of additional dividend increase is not something that made a lot of sense to us. We are very happy to increase the dividend. We remain committed to cash return to shareholders. But we also need to reflect reality in our dividend planning.

Significant FX headwinds, we are creating a smaller Company. And our earnings per share are below year ago. We have a responsibility there, as you will appreciate as well. So it is a balancing of those two things. I completely get and understand the question and it is a very fair one. But that's where we netted out. I will leave it there.

Thank you everybody for your questions this morning. We'll be available for the balance of the week to talk through any of this with you. We're very happy about the progress that we are making, but we clearly understand we have more to do. Thanks a lot.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude today's conference. Thank you for your participation. You may now disconnect. Have a great day.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
prgml : The Procter & Gamble Company
   IN
i258 : Cosmetics/Toiletries | icnp : Consumer Goods | ipcare : Personal Care Products/Appliances
   NS
c151 : Earnings | cgvfil : Government Filings | gforex : Foreign Exchange (Personal Finance) | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Financial Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | gpersf : Personal Finance | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020160427ec4q0020c
  


 HD
 Q2  2016  Procter  & Gamble Co Earnings Call - Final
   WC
10,958 words
   PD
26 January 2016
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©016 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good morning, and welcome to Procter & Gamble's quarter-end conference call. P&G would like to remind you that today's discussion will include a number of forward-looking statements. If you will refer to P&G's most recent 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K reports, you will see a discussion of factors that could cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from these projections.

   TD
Also as required by Regulation G, Procter & Gamble needs to make you aware that, during the discussion, the Company will make a number of references to non-GAAP and other financial measures. Procter & Gamble believes these measures provide investors with valuable information on the underlying growth trends of the Business, and has posted on its website, www.PG.com, a full reconciliation of non-GAAP and other financial measures.

Now, I will turn the call over to P&G's Chief Financial Officer, Jon Moeller.

JON MOELLER, CFO, PROCTER & GAMBLE COMPANY: Good morning. In the quarter we just completed we continued reducing costs and reinvested in growth, re-accelerating our top line, and delivering strong earnings and cash flow.

Organic sales increased 2%. Core earnings per share increased 9%, with constant-currency core earnings per share up 21%. We delivered meaningful triple-digit basis point improvements in gross and operating margins on both a constant-currency and all-in basis. All-in GAAP earnings per share were up 37%. Adjusted free cash flow productivity was 117%.

This is a reasonably strong quarter which reflects our efforts to accelerate organic top line and earnings per share growth, fueled by productivity savings. We continue to operate, though, in a very challenging and volatile macro environment. Market growth rates on both a volume and value basis have decelerated, due mainly to slower growth in developing markets. We entered the year expecting the market to grow close to 3% to 4% globally; we now expect 2% to 3%.

There are more flash points across the globe than in any time in recent memory, with significant economic and political instability impacting incomes and consumption in many large and important markets -- Russia, the Ukraine, Egypt, Saudi Arabia and the balance of the Middle East, Turkey, Nigeria, Argentina, Venezuela and Brazil. Currencies are weakening across the board, more than $0.75 billion since the start of the fiscal, and over $1 billion after tax versus year ago.

This is on top of a $1.5 billion impact last fiscal year, and nearly $1 billion impact the year before. Across three years, FX has been a $3.5 billion impact, over 30% of fiscal year 2013 core net earnings after tax. Since the start of December, the current-year FX headwind has increased by $300 million after tax, with a 40% devaluation in Argentina, an additional 15% devaluation in Russia, and nearly a 10% devaluation in Mexico.

The relative strength of the dollar weighs heavier on us than our euro and yen functional currency competitors. The dollar has more than doubled against the ruble over the past two years, while our euro functional competitors are facing about 50% to 60% of that impact. We expect these dynamics -- slowing market growth, geopolitical hot spots, and a stronger dollar -- will continue to be part of our reality going forward.

Against this backdrop, we're staying focused on big opportunities in our control, executing what is the largest transformation in our Company's history: step changing productivity; transforming our portfolio; and strengthening category business models and innovation plans. This transformation strategy, as we'll explain more at CAGNY, is fundamentally a growth strategy.

I'll talk briefly about each of these focus areas -- productivity, portfolio, and business model and innovation plans -- before getting into the details of the quarter. We continue to dramatically improve productivity, with significant upside still ahead. Our original five-year cost of goods savings target was $6 billion. We expect to deliver over $7 billion by the end of this year, 15% above our initial target.

We've reduced manufacturing enrollment by 15% over the last three years. This includes new staffing necessary to support capacity addition. On a same-site basis, manufacturing enrollment is down nearly 20%. We're targeting 25% to 30% cumulative reduction by the end of fiscal 2017.

In February 2012, we announced we would reduce non-manufacturing overhead by 10% over five years. As of December 31, we have reduced these roles by 23%, more than double the original target, and are well on track to meet our revised target of 25% to 30% by the end of fiscal 2017. In fact, we currently expect to reach our 25% to 30% objective this year, one year ahead of schedule. These figures exclude divestitures; including divestitures, we'll reduce non-manufacturing roles by over 35%.

Continued digitization has been, and will be, a big enabler of our overhead and manufacturing enrollment efficiencies. We're reducing non-working marketing expenditures -- costs that do not impact reach, do not impact frequency. Last year, we reduced the number of agencies we work with by nearly 40%, and cut agency and production spending by about $370 million. We're aiming for an additional $200 million of agency-related savings this year. These are non-working savings that enable us to invest in advertising and in trial of consumer-preferred products.

We're strengthening our working marketing programs: greater reach, higher frequency, greater effectiveness, at less overall marketing cost. Last fiscal year in the US, we increased total marketing and merchandising support behind Pantene by 440 basis points, increased Tide brand spending by 220 basis points, and invested an additional 150 basis points in Fusion behind the new FlexBall innovation.

This year, we've made similar increases to advertising programs in the US on shave care, fabric care; in Brazil on baby care and fabric care; in China on fabric care and oral care. In North America alone, we've added nearly 100 basis points to advertising and in-store merchanting budgets since we started the fiscal year.

In addition to cost of goods sold, overhead and non-working marketing cost reduction, we're driving balance sheet productivity. Inventory days are down. Payable days are up. The moves we've made on the balance sheet have enabled us to extend our long track record of very strong adjusted free cash flow productivity: 102% last fiscal year; 101% in Q1; 117% in Q2. We continue to maintain our position as one of the strongest cash generators among competitive peers and comparable mega-cap companies.

We're also among the top companies in returning cash to shareholders. In fiscal 2015, we increased our dividend for the 59th consecutive year, and returned $11.9 billion in cash to shareholders, 105% of adjusted net earnings. Over the past five years, we've returned $60 billion to shareholders, and intend to pay dividends, retire shares, and repurchase shares worth up to $70 billion over just the next four years.

In addition to transforming our cost structure, we're transforming our portfolio. As you know, we're centering our portfolio on 10 category-based business units where P&G has leading market positions, strong brands, and consumer [to] meaningful product technologies. These 10 categories have historically grown faster with higher margins than the balance of the Company. We'll be a Company of consumer-preferred brands and products in these 10 product categories.

Within these core businesses, we're also focusing our offerings to maximize value creation. We're making smart choices for short-, mid- and long-term value creation, foregoing bad business even when these choices create short-term top-line pressure.

In our Mexico family care business, we made a choice to discontinue low-tier, unprofitable products in favor of very profitable, higher-tier products, albeit with lower sales. The top-line drag from this choice will dissipate over the next few quarters. We'll have a solidly value-accretive business going forward.

In India, we've made a choice to de-prioritize several unprofitable lines of business, which negatively impact short-term top-line growth rates, but will lead longer term to a much more profitable business that will grow strongly. Last fiscal year, organic sales growth slowed by several points, but we made significant progress in improving local profit margin, up 700 basis points. We went from losing money in India to triple-digit profits.

In the quarter we just completed, India organic sales growth was only 2%. The strategic part of the business, the part that we're maintaining, grew a healthy 10%. Sales in the portion of the business we're fixing or exiting, which is about 15% of the portfolio, were down 35%. Profit is running significantly ahead of even last year's improved levels.

As we come out of this, we'll have strong top-line growth that is really worth something. There's really no point to growth if it isn't worth something. Choices like this impacted our organic top-line growth rate by about 1 point in the October-to-December quarter, but will enable us to increase profitability on an ongoing basis.

As we've improved productivity and sharpened our portfolio, we've been strengthening business unit strategies, business models and product offerings, putting particular priority against our four largest categories -- fabric care, baby care, grooming and hair care -- and our two largest markets, the US and China. We're focusing our laundry business on consumer-preferred brands and product offerings like our premium performance and premium price units dose detergents, and our market-leading and market-expanding scent bead fabric enhancers.

We're launching better performing and more profitable new compact liquid detergents in Russia, Turkey, Mexico, Brazil and China. In Russia and Turkey, where we launched superior compact liquid detergents early last calendar year, P&G's share of liquid detergents is up 7 and 11 points, respectively.

Fabric care results in the US demonstrate what is possible when we get the strategy balanced, and the innovation program focused on what matters most to consumers: superior value for best-in-class performance at a modest price premium. The US laundry detergent category is continuing to grow, up more than 4 points on a value basis across all outlets over the last three- and six-month periods. Within this, our share is growing. P&G's US laundry detergent value share was up 1 point last fiscal year, and it was up 0.5 points in the December quarter.

We will continue to be the innovation leader in fabric care. In North America, we're introducing a new regiment on Tide and Downy that addresses the odor problems common to athletic wear. 70% of consumers wear athletic gear multiple times each week.

The Odor Defense collection, anchored by innovation on Tide PODS, brings a proprietary formula of enzymes and surfactants that break down and remove stubborn soils and residues for a great clean and fresh scent. Paired with the added cleaning power of Tide Odor Defense Rescue laundry booster and Downy Fresh Protect odor defense beads, this regimen promises to eliminate odors from the fast growing market of ath-leisure clothes people are wearing far beyond the gym.

In the US baby care, strong innovation, consumer communication, trial programs and a robust online presence have led to strong growth for Pampers. Pampers value share of US diapers was up more than 1.5 points last fiscal year, and was up 1 point in the December quarter. The progress is particularly encouraging considering our latest Pampers innovation with extra absorb channels was on shipment allocation for much of the quarter, as demand succeeded our initial supply. With increased capacity in place and continued strong demand, we expect a good start to the new calendar year.

We're increasing our investments in Luvs diapers in the second half of the fiscal year to address share declines following a significant price reduction taken by our primary competitor. Baby care results have been softer in other markets. To address this, we've strengthened our value proposition in several markets, and accelerated premium innovation on both taped and pull-on diapers to restore our competitiveness at the top end of the market. We're strengthening our selling resources and programs for baby stores. We're improving our point-of-market entry programs to deliver higher awareness and trial of Pampers among new moms.

The Gillette FlexBall innovation continues to deliver strong results in grooming. Globally, an estimated 25 million men have tried FlexBall in the 18 months since launch. FlexBall has been an important catalyst of growth on ProGlide cartridges.

ProGlide cartridge sales grew 18% last fiscal year compared to a 7% decline in the overall male cartridge market. ProGlide cartridge share is up 2 to 3 points in each of the past 3-, 6- and 12-month periods through December.

The strong ProGlide results set a very positive stage for our next cartridge innovation, Gillette Fusion ProShield. ProShield, with lubrication before and after the blades, shields against irritation during every shave. Retailer response to ProShield has been outstanding, delivering launch orders and display levels well above targets.

We're supporting a broader range of our product ladder from our best product, Fusion FlexBall, to Mach3 systems, to premium price and superior performance disposables, with strong consumer value communication. We're innovating in-store, helping retailers move out of the lock boxes on shelves and at check out with the use of hard tags.

Hard tags make Gillette much easier to shop. They take up less space on shelves, so more product can be on a peg, reducing out-of-stocks and improving sales closure rates. They are very effective at reducing shrink. We've already made the change in several hundred stores with excellent results, and are rolling out hard tags as fast as we're able.

We're also innovating online. With more men purchasing their blades and razors through eCommerce, we're establishing Gillette as the online leader. While we were admittedly late to build out our online offering, Gillette Shave Club launched in June and is off to a very good start.

We've increased our eCommerce share of blades and razors more than 6 points, and nearly doubled online consumption since launching Gillette Shave Club. We're building partnerships with eTailers and retailers who are offering their shoppers subscription tie-ins for the Gillette Shave Club, which have enabled Gillette to deliver record online sales in each of the past three months.

In hair care, we launched our new conditioner innovation on Pantene in the US earlier this month. Pantene's new breakthrough conditioner technology delivers weightless conditioning, addressing the most significant consumer trial barrier for conditioners. The new conditioner innovation is a consumer blind test winner versus our best competitors in North America, China and Japan. We recently launched two new Head & Shoulders variants in the US, Instant Fresh and Nourishing Care, in our upgraded Head & Shoulders consumer message with a new campaign: use daily to stay 100% flake free for life with Head & Shoulders Scalp Shield technology.

Driven by these interventions in laundry, baby care, grooming, hair care and other categories, and by our investment in category-dedicated sales coverage, we're making sequential progress in our largest and most profitable market, the United States. The US business rebounded from a 2-point organic sales decline in Q1 to deliver 3 points of organic growth in Q2. The US improvement was despite product allocation, driven by demand in excess of supply in two of our largest categories, baby care and feminine care, and despite a record light cough/cold season impacting the Vicks brand. Sales are probably 1 point or so ahead of consumption for the October-December quarter, but the progress is encouraging nonetheless.

Our second largest market, both sales and profits, is China. Here, Q2 organic sales were again down high-single digits, in line with the Q1 trend. We've gotten behind in premium innovation, which has been a contributor to our soft top-line trends over the last several quarters. We're aggressively addressing this opportunity.

David Taylor; Kathy Fish, our R&D leader; myself; and several other members of our leadership team spent the last week in China. We're working with the team there, and with the global business units, to expand our offerings in the premium price tiers, which are the fastest growing; to invest in trial of consumer-preferred products; and to transform our go-to-market operations.

We've launched premium baby care innovations in both the taped and pull-on segments. We're launching compact area liquid detergents that consumers prefer over competition. We have new upgrades coming soon on Tide. We've made meaningful product and packaging improvements in hair care that launched last quarter on both Head & Shoulders and Pantene.

In oral care, we're launching Oral-B gum care, a new super premium gum repair line of Oral-B toothpastes. The line includes a two-step paste and other single-step paste variants. Consumer tests show the new line winning against top competition in the super premium tier.

We're importing our best feminine care product, Infinity, to China, with premium power toothbrushes and our best Braun razors. We're increasing our investment in consumer awareness, point of market entry sampling and trial across categories.

We're strengthening our relationship and presence with key eCommerce and specialty retailers, the fastest growing channels in the Chinese retail market. We're investing in coverage of these channels, and are working to simplify, standardize and strengthen our overall go-to-market approach. These moves will take time to fully implement, and the go-to-market changes may actually result in pull-backs before progress, but we're confident they will result in stronger growth over time.

Stepping back then and looking at things on a macro level, the environment continues to be very challenging: slower market growth, stiff foreign exchange headwinds, and a volatile political and policy environment. Against this backdrop, we continue to improve productivity, to focus our portfolio, and to invest in superior consumer-preferred brands and products. We're putting particular priority against the four largest categories -- baby care, fabric care, hair care and grooming -- and against our two largest markets, the US and China.

With that context as background, let me get into the details of the quarter we've just completed, as well as the outlook for the fiscal year. Two housekeeping items before I begin: First, the organic sales and core earnings results we're reporting today are based on our 10 core product categories. The results of the beauty and batteries businesses that we're in the process of exiting are reported as discontinued operations. In late October, we provided a restated 10-K for fiscal 2015, presenting historical results on this same basis. Second, starting last quarter, we're no longer consolidating the results of our Venezuelan subsidiaries in our reported numbers.

Organic sales were up 2% for the quarter versus the prior year. Each segment was at or ahead of year ago. As I mentioned previously, sales were slightly ahead of consumption. Organic sales in China and Russia were significantly lower versus last year, negatively impacting total Company sales growth by more than 1 point.

The category and SKU clean-up efforts drove up to another 1 point of organic sales decline. These impacts were more than offset by progress in the United States and growth in Latin America. All-in, sales were down 9%, including an 8-point headwind from foreign exchange, and 3 points from the Venezuela de-consolidation and minor brand divestitures.

Core gross margin and core operating margin each improved on both an all-in and ex-currency basis, driven by productivity savings. Core gross margin increased 210 basis points versus the prior year. Excluding foreign exchange, core gross margin was up 290 basis points.

Core SG&A costs improved 140 basis points, driven primarily by overhead cost reductions. We continue to invest in marketing, reinvesting non-working cost savings. Marketing expenditures were, in total, equal to year ago as a percentage of sales.

Core operating margin was up 350 basis points versus the prior year, behind 270 basis points of productivity savings. On a constant-currency basis, our core operating margin was up 390 basis points. The core effective tax rate was 23.6%, up nearly 1 point versus last year.

Core earnings per share were $1.04, up 9% versus the prior-year quarter. This includes a 12-percentage-point foreign exchange headwind, approximately $300 million after tax. On a constant-currency basis, core earnings per share grew 21%. On an all-in GAAP basis, earnings per share were $1.12 for the quarter, up 37% versus the prior year.

We generated $3.8 billion in free cash flow, yielding 117% adjusted free cash flow productivity. We returned approximately $3.9 billion to shareholders this quarter through a combination of $1.9 billion in dividends and $2 billion in share repurchase.

Moving to guidance, we're maintaining our outlook for organic sales growth of in line to up low-single digits versus fiscal 2015. We've been investing to increase awareness and trial of our brands and products in North America, which is a key catalyst for growth in categories like fabric care and baby care. We're launching a number of new consumer-preferred premium innovations over the next few months in both developed and developing markets.

We're investing in selling capabilities to capitalize on opportunities in the fastest growing channels, and strengthen our presence in our most important markets. We've also invested in targeted price reductions to narrow consumer value gaps in several categories. All of these efforts, along with annualizing some of the most significant impacts from last fiscal year, give us confidence we'll continue to grow organic sales in the second half.

The level of growth could be impacted by our access to dollars for finished product import into Venezuela. About 60% of our Venezuelan business is imported. The sale of imported products from the importing subsidiary is still reported in our consolidated results. Failure to continue this business would result in up to 0.5 points impact to top-line growth in the fiscal year.

The headwind from foreign exchange has increased since the start of the year. We now expect FX will have a 7-percentage-point impact on all-in sales growth. Also, the combined impact of the Venezuela de-consolidation and minor brand divestitures will have a 2- to 3-percentage-point drag on all-in sales growth.

Taken together, we expect all-in sales to be down high-single digits versus restated fiscal 2015 results. We're also maintaining constant-currency core earnings per share guidance of mid- to high-singles, with our internal outlook currently at the low end of this range.

Given the magnitude of the foreign exchange impact, I thought it might be helpful to again recount how FX impacts our earnings. I'll use the example of the Argentinian peso. We've been most pleased to see the early decisive approach of Argentina's new leadership, and believe the actions they are taking will create long-term benefits, for which we are well positioned to participate.

But the nearly 30% to 40% devaluation of the peso will significantly impact our reported earnings in three ways. First, transaction impacts increase the cost of non-peso-denominated inputs. We import, as an example, Gillette blades and razors from Mexico into Argentina. Widening of the cross-weight between the two peso currencies increases the Argentina unit's cost of razors, and reduces profit. Similarly, the local cost of plastic bottles, which are denominated in dollars, and imported into Argentina for the production of fabric care and hair care products, have increased significantly.

These transaction cost impacts affect all manufacturers, multi-national or local, whose materials or finished products are imported from similar sources and are similarly denominated. We attempt to recover these cost increases through pricing, when local legal requirements and market realities allow it, though there's a lag between the time when a currency devalues, the costs are incurred, and the pricing is taken and executed through our channels of distribution.

The second impact is balance sheet revaluation. We need to revalue transaction-related payables and receivables balances at the end of each quarter. This includes the revaluation of balances related to transactions between P&G legal entities that operate in different currencies. To continue the prior example, while razors produced in Mexico are being transported, and are moving through the customs process into Argentina, our Argentinian business holds a Mexico-peso-denominated payable on its books. At the end of every quarter, payables and receivables balances are revalued at current spot rates. Gains or losses from revaluing transactional balances flow through SG&A, and are included in core earnings per share.

Third, income statements of foreign subsidiaries like Argentina that do not use the US dollar as their functional currency are translated back to US dollars at the new exchange rates. Thus, the Argentinian peso transaction, balance sheet revaluation and translation impacts have been, and are projected to be, significant, at about $70 million, $50 million and $20 million after tax, respectively, for a total of $140 million after tax for the year. Across all currencies, foreign exchange hurts total nearly $300 million after tax in the December quarter, $700 million fiscal year to date, and are forecast to be a $1 billion impact after-tax profit hurt over the course of the fiscal year.

When we talk about foreign exchange impacts, we're sometimes asked why we don't simply hedge these away. It's a very valid question, and something we look at internally and with a different set of outside eyes every year as we prepare our financial plan.

There are three reasons we typically don't end up choosing to hedge. Up to two-thirds of our foreign exchange losses, and a significant amount of our forward exposure, is in currencies that are either non-deliverable or are very difficult to hedge: the Argentinian peso, Venezuelan bolivar, and the Ukrainian hryvnia are three examples.

Second, hedging is neither free nor cheap. Currency volatility in itself increases, sometimes in significant ways, this cost. So, when you'd want it most, it becomes difficult to afford.

The last shortfall of hedging as the answer is that it solves nothing longer term. It also does nothing to help restore the margin structure of the Business. A hedge simply defers volatility. When the instrument expires, you have the same hit with the same margin impact you would have had, had you not hedged.

While it takes time, and there's a lag between the hurt and the help, we typically look to pricing, sizing, mix enhancement, sourcing choices, and cost reduction to manage FX impacts. We have historically recovered about two-thirds of FX impacts with pricing over time. We think this time, given differential impacts for euro and yen functional currency competitors, it will be somewhat less than that.

I said in our last call that we would invest where it was appropriate to do so. I said we would not cut smart investment to offset foreign exchange impacts, which meant we could very well end up below the earnings per share guidance range.

FX is a near-term reality that has gotten significantly worse. We're doing our best to offset FX impacts with productivity savings and pricing, while continuing to make investments in brand equities, innovation, trial, and value equations. We think we've struck a reasonable balance of investment to improve the long-term health of the Business, even though it requires we moderate our short-term earnings outlook, including foreign exchange.

We're reducing our core earnings per share guidance to a range of down 3% to 8% versus last year's core earnings per share of $3.76. This earnings per share guidance includes headwinds of 8 to 9 percentage points from the combined impacts of beauty, deal and transition expenses -- these are for the businesses moving out to merge with Coty; Venezuela de-consolidation; lower operating income; and a higher -- non-operating income, excuse me -- and a higher tax rate. Adjusting for these items, our guidance translates to modest core earnings per share growth, with meaningful growth excluding foreign exchange.

Our key assumptions on items below the core operating profit line have not changed. The core effective tax rate should be about 24% for fiscal 2016, about 3 points higher than last year, roughly a 4-percentage-point headwind on core earnings per share growth. The core tax rate in the back half of the fiscal year -- of last fiscal year -- was below 19%. We expect a tax rate of closer to 24% in the back half of this fiscal.

We continue to expect non-operating income will be a 2- to 3-percentage-point drag on core earnings per share growth, mainly impacting the fourth quarter. We had nearly $440 million of non-operating income gains last year, with over $400 million coming in the second half, including $355 million in the fourth quarter. We expect modest non-operating income gains in the back half of this fiscal.

With most of these impacts hitting in the back half, the core earnings per share growth headwind across Q3 and Q4 is roughly 13 percentage points, or about $0.24 per share. FX adds another 7%, or about $0.12 per share, headwind in the back half. So, while the midpoint of our new guidance range points to roughly a 15% core earnings per share reduction in the back half versus last year, or roughly flat, excluding the tax and non-operating headwinds, and up mid-singles if we adjust for currency. Given very strong progress to date, as I've said before, 101% in Q1 and 117% in Q2, we're increasing our free cash flow productivity target from 90% to 100% of earnings.

We continue to expect to retire shares at a value of approximately $8 billion to $9 billion through a combination of direct share repurchases and shares that will be exchanged during the third quarter in the Duracell transaction. In addition to the shares we expect to retire, we expect dividend payments of more than $7 billion; in total, $15 billion to $16 billion in dividend payments, share exchange and share repurchase. We now expect all-in GAAP earnings per share to be up approximately 42% at the center of our guidance range.

Going forward, we are committed to balanced top- and bottom-line growth, and strong free cash flow productivity, to drive total shareholder return. We will continue to address value gaps if and when they emerge. We will defend our positions. We will invest behind brand trial and awareness programs, and of course, consumer-preferred innovation.

We'll do everything we can from a productivity standpoint. We'll smartly invest to accelerate top-line growth. We'll continue delivering on our commitment of strong cash return to shareholders.

David and I both look forward to talking with you at CAGNY about the plan, and priorities to deliver balanced growth and value creation beyond this fiscal year. I'll provide an update on our productivity progress and the significant opportunity that remains in front of us, which can help fuel investment and growth. David will discuss our strategic choices, how we plan to sustainably improve top-line growth, and the organization and culture changes we'll make to accelerate our progress.

That concludes our prepared remarks for this morning. As a reminder, business segment information is provided in our press release, and will be available in slides which we posted on our website, www.PG.com following the call. With that, I'd be happy to take your questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions)

Your first question comes from the line of Dara Mohsenian, Morgan Stanley.

DARA MOHSENIAN, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Good morning. Jon, I wanted to focus a bit more on the top line results. Q2 was a solid sequential improvement despite some of the retail inventory cuts you mentioned in the release. Your full year sales guidance on org sales looks like it's moving up given the all-in guidance is unchanged despite the greater FX pressure.

So what's driving that more favorable expectation? Are the factors behind it more longer term in nature, temporary to this year?

Then also, can you help explain -- if we look at Nielsen scanner data, we haven't seen improvement in the US, Europe or emerging markets. So, if you can help explain the dichotomy between the improved expectations but a lack of scanner data sales improvement, that would be helpful. Then last, last quarter you mentioned second half organic sales growth would likely be above Q2. Is that still the case? Thanks.

JON MOELLER: So first of all, Dara, we have maintained our organic sales growth guidance for the year, which is flat to low singles. So there's really no change in the overall outlook, which as you rightly say was for acceleration in Q2 and then further improvement in the back half of the year. As I mentioned, the extent of that improvement in the back half of the year is going to be potentially impacted by what happens with access to dollars for imports into Venezuela. It will obviously be impacted by other things as well. But even with that, we remain confident that we can continue to grow in the second half.

In terms of the businesses in the US and the comparison to scanner data, as you know, we pretty dramatically accelerated our growth in the US from minus 2% in the quarter before to plus 3% in this quarter. I mentioned that there was about 1 point of sales that's ahead of consumption. That's on things like the ProShield razor that we shipped into the market. But still, even adjusting for that acceleration as we expected.

It's getting increasingly difficult to look only at scanner data as a measure of a market's health or a business' health. That's particularly true in markets like China, where a huge portion of the growth of the market is coming in the e-commerce channel, which doesn't cross a scanner. You have some of that same dynamic in the US.

So, for example, the Shave Club sales, depending on how they're executed, may or may not cross a scanner. I think that's part of the dichotomy. But generally, if we look across several quarters to dampen out some of the short-term volatility and the noise, we continue to be pleased and encouraged by increasing strength in the North American business. We expect it to grow going forward.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Wendy Nicholson, Citi Research.

WENDY NICHOLSON, ANALYST, CITI INVESTMENT RESEARCH: Hi. First question just on housekeeping. I think you said China, your sales were down high single-digits. Do you have a sense for what the category growth was, just so we can compare that?

Then second question, more broadly on pricing, I guess two components. Number one, in emerging markets, where we continue to see currencies devalue like Russia, like Brazil, how far are you into your price increases? Are you going to continue to take price increases to keep in line with inflation or what's the outlook there?

Then second part of that, with regard to pricing, in North America, it's surprising to me that there is still so much positive pricing across the whole sector in light of the lower commodity prices. I don't know whether that's just a reflection of a stronger US consumer or more innovation. But if you could comment broadly on your outlook about pricing in North America and whether you think the price increases you've taken are sustainable. Thanks.

JON MOELLER: Thanks, Wendy. So first, China. It depends on the individual category, but the market growth rates range roughly from, call it, 5% to 8%, so mid to high singles across the categories. As I mentioned -- we see significant opportunity remaining in China: with those very attractive growth rates, albeit somewhat slower than they were two and three years ago; with the conversion from a manufacturing to a consumption based economy; with the dramatic potential that exists as a result of larger family sizes from the possibility of two children versus just one; and with the premiumization of the market, which I indicated, admittedly we have not been as agile as we need to be in exploiting.

But really, as I mentioned, I was there last week. I was there a week before the Christmas holidays. I walk away with a tremendous sense of encouragement while acknowledging that we have work to do.

In terms of pricing, the pricing dynamic should continue to be a favorable contributor to top line growth as we move forward, even if all we do is take forward the price increases that have already been executed. They're not fully annualized yet. So that should continue to be a positive on the top line.

The pricing calculus or algebra is fairly complicated. You really have to look at the combination of currencies, commodities and competition to determine a course of action going forward in any individual product category or market. The sum of those three things is very different depending on what markets you're in, as influenced by both currencies and by competition. In general, the companies in our industry continue to price at some level for foreign exchange.

I mentioned in our prepared remarks that we expect our ability to price to be somewhat lower than it has been historically. We'll make up for that over time with productivity and other savings. In the US -- first of all, the commodity impacts aren't as significant as you would assume just looking at the headlines on oil prices, for example. If you look at everything from diesel to resin to other inputs that are derived from the petrol complex, while the pricing benefit or cost reduction has occurred, it is not anywhere near the level yet of the crude price reductions.

So I think that's a potential source of disconnect as people think about this. Generally, we're taking pricing behind very strong product innovation. We're looking to improve the strength of our overall value equations, the combination of pricing, product performance, consumer usage, experience aesthetic. Done in that way, I think that continues to be a contributor to growth and value creation.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Lauren Lieberman, Barclays.

LAUREN LIEBERMAN, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Great. Thanks so much. I just had a question on SG&A and reinvestment levels. So our -- we keep track of the moving pieces you share each quarter. It looks like reinvestment in the business decelerated a bit in the second quarter. Then also to tie to your full-year outlook, SG&A probably needs to go up in the back half. Can you just tell me if that's on the right track? If it's going up, what the specific areas of reinvestment will be versus the pace of the overhead take-out? Thanks.

JON MOELLER: So we expect, for example, our media spending to be up double-digits in the second half versus year-ago. So as reinvestment as compared to the prior year, that will definitely be increasing.

As we look at those choices, we're obviously not encumbered by the math. We're looking at the value creation potential that exists behind those investments in both the short and importantly the mid and longer term. We'll invest where we have opportunities to do so.

So I think that you should think of the level of investment, reinvestment sequentially increasing as we go forward. I think -- I know that will be the case this fiscal year. I expect that will be the case next fiscal year.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of John Faucher with JPMorgan.

JOHN FAUCHER, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Thanks. Just a follow-up on that. Jon, it seems as though -- you've delivered upside on the FX-neutral earnings growth year to date, particularly today. Yet, you're going to the low end of the range. Is that because of some of the incremental investments you're talking about? Is that ad spend incremental to what you were thinking before?

Then separately, just thanks for the color on the FX piece. It's a pretty wide range if we look at that over the balance of the year in terms of the FX impact, it's probably something in the neighborhood of like $0.20. So, I guess I'm just wondering what drives those differences in outcomes from an FX standpoint? Just so we understand where we need to go within that range. Thanks.

JON MOELLER: In terms of the over-delivering and then maintaining the constant currency guidance, yes, that definitely is reflective of additional investment. I mentioned in our prepared remarks that in North America, for example, we have increased our budgets by about 100 basis points since the start of the year, most of that occurring relatively recently. That's driven both by our encouragement from a response standpoint to the spending that we have in the market and the acceleration of growth, particularly in the US.

So, yes, your interpretation is correct in terms of the various moving pieces. The guidance range is really reflective of what the underlying constant currency range of outcomes could be. Then we just apply the current FX math on top of that. There's a lot of -- we're operating in a more volatile environment than we ever have. I think our range is reflective of that reality, as it should be.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Chris Ferrara with Wells Fargo.

CHRIS FERRARA, ANALYST, WELLS FARGO SECURITIES, LLC: Thanks. Jon, just to make you rehash this a little bit, but I guess I'm not totally understanding why the back half EBIT would decline; right? So I think I understand the below the line impact of tax rate and other, but it looks like FX probably gets less bad in the back half of the year. I think you said that, right?

Yet your guidance range really implies a deceleration in EBIT, so -- and a reasonably substantial one from this past quarter. So I guess correct me if that's wrong, but do you guys expect the gross margin acceleration to slow in the back half of the year maybe? I guess what might I be missing?

JON MOELLER: Some of those impacts in that 8 to 9 point impact of things like Venezuela de-consolidation and the beauty transition costs and the non-operating income difference are all in the EBIT line. So that's a significant driver of lower EBIT comparisons second half versus first half. As I mentioned, most of those hit the second half disproportionately.

In terms of currency, there is some let-up but not a lot in the back half. I expect our margin progress to continue to be reasonably strong, certainly constant currency on both gross and operating. So it's really -- the comparison is most dramatically driven by FX and by things like the Venezuela de-consolidation, the transition costs associated with the beauty business that are not in discontinued operations.

For example, if we have employees in our global business service organization that are working to stand up to the new Company in terms of building the systems that are required, et cetera, those are employees that are going to remain with Procter & Gamble; therefore, their costs are not in discontinued operations, they're in continuing operations. Then as I mentioned, the divestiture gain in non-op is a big driver as well.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Bill Schmitz with Deutsche Bank.

BILL SCHMITZ, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Hey, Jon, good morning.

JON MOELLER: Good morning.

BILL SCHMITZ: A couple questions. Just a housekeeping one. Do you still think Duracell is going to close roughly any day now? Is Coty still set to close July/August?

Then my real question is, when does market share really start to matter? Because I know you've kind of sort of down played it and said, we're about expanding categories and protecting the structural integrity of our categories. But it just seems that some of the share declines that some others mentioned, especially in some of the emerging markets are pretty significant.

So can you just tell me like if you're going to have a point in time where the focus is going to shift and you're going to start focusing on market share again. Then, just in the quarter, what percentage of the business is gaining market share?

JON MOELLER: Thanks, Bill. Duracell, as I mentioned earlier, should close this quarter. The exact date will depend on work that still needs to occur. But that's on track. Coty is currently scheduled to close as well in the timing that we initially indicated, which would be in the back half of the calendar year. So no changes in either of those, both progressing towards the desired end points as we would hope.

In terms of market share, our objective is balanced growth and value creation, with the growth objective being over time at to slightly ahead of markets. So market share does matter but particularly in a time when we need to restore structural economics in response to currency moves, we can get ourselves in big trouble if that becomes the driving metric. So as we've said, we're prepared to lose some share in two situations, one is where we're restoring a structural economic attractiveness. Having a higher market share with a negative gross margin isn't helpful to anyone.

Also where we're doing some of the portfolio cleanup that I mentioned on the core categories, where we'll be in a much better position longer term from both a growth and value creation standpoint if we can focus on the parts of our portfolio that are really working for us. So if you look at the percentage of business that is holding or growing share, it's about 45% globally. Currently, we would expect that to be higher going forward. In the US, where we're further ahead in the strengthening of our portfolio, et cetera, we've got about 60% of the business holding and are growing share.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Mark Astrachan with Stifel Nicolaus.

MARK ASTRACHAN, ANALYST, STIFEL NICOLAUS: Thanks. Good morning, everybody. I wanted to go back to China, Jon. So, does the sales growth guidance for the back half of the year anticipate an improvement in current trends? Then related to that, given the time that you talked about being in the market, do you think it's realistic you can be competitive in all the categories in which you compete today?

JON MOELLER: The current guidance does expect an improvement in China in the back half. That should be very doable, just based on the math alone, in other words, the annualization of some of the changes that we made in our go-to-market and inventory levels in the back half of last year. So we do expect that will improve.

Again, as I said, our view on China is an opportunistic one, not a pessimistic one. We really think that there's significant continued opportunity there, both top and bottom line.

I think -- we picked the categories that we're going to compete in, in the new portfolio based on our view of our capability to be more than competitive, to win. These are categories that we have won in. We're global leaders in almost every single one, I think 7 out of the 10. We're among the leaders in the balance.

There's a margin structure that allows for significant investment and growth in each of these businesses. These are our higher margin businesses. They're businesses that importantly leverage our core capabilities as a Company. So they've been deliberately chosen for success.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Steve Powers with UBS.

STEVE POWERS, ANALYST, UBS: Thanks, Jon. So, I guess on the one hand, I think we're all very pleased with the return to positive organic growth, especially alongside the strong cash productivity and margin progression that you called out. Then on the other hand, volumes were still down 2%. I guess 1%, if I exclude the businesses you've chosen to exit. But negative essentially across the whole business nonetheless. Market share sounds like it was down in aggregate.

So I guess just some further comments there would be helpful in terms of how and when you're likely to come out of this negative volume phase? Because if I go back over the last 15 years or so, we're sort of in this anomalous period where last year and sounds like this year, we're in negative volume territory. The only time that's ever happened was the financial crisis.

So I guess again, how and when can we inflect positive on that key volume number? Thanks.

JON MOELLER: So the two drivers of the volume reduction, one as you indicated is the portfolio cleanup within the core categories that are still reported within continuing operations, and as you rightly indicated that's had about 1 point worth of impact. The other is the market reaction from a consumption standpoint and in some cases the share price evolution as we take pricing to offset foreign exchange impacts in large devaluation markets. So if you take Russia or the Ukraine as an example, where devaluation has been 70%, 80%, 110%, we have negative gross margins.

We need to price over time as well as do everything we can from a savings standpoint to restore those margins of at least to a positive level so that growth is meaningful. During that process both at a market level, markets tend to contract in response to higher price points and sometimes from a share standpoint and Russia and the Ukraine are good examples where we're competing against strong European competitors. In the case of Russia, Japanese competitors as well. Sometimes there's a modest share impact that comes with the pricing that we deem necessary to take.

We are not prepared to lose share indefinitely. Our history in this area is that we -- it takes six to nine months to work your way through this. Some of the pricing that we've taken has been recent because a lot of the devaluation has been recent.

So I haven't actually looked at it quarter by quarter to see, what's the quarter where volume will re-inflect positive. We'll have to work our way through this pricing. I don't believe -- go back to the comments on market share.

We fully intend to grow at market growth rates or slightly ahead of market growth rates over longer periods of time. That requires volume growth. I mentioned markets growing 3%-ish. We're not going to be able to take 3% pricing indefinitely, nor is that our intent in any way.

So we will -- also, we're not -- in markets where competitors don't respond from a pricing standpoint, remember, we, because we're the market leaders, typically have to lead or nothing happens. So we're exposed for that period of time. Competitors can take six to nine months sometimes before they respond or they cannot respond at all.

In the cases where they don't respond to the levels that are necessary to maintain our value equation comparisons, or where they don't price at all, we will reduce price. We're not going to be uncompetitive. We're not going to lose share on a sustained basis.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Nik Modi with RBC Capital Markets.

NIK MODI, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Good morning, guys. Just two quick questions.

Jon, can you maybe provide just a quick bridge on the volume? When you talk about the US going positive and helping us reconcile how you got to the total consolidated number, just so we get a geographic viewpoint.

Then the bigger picture question is, as you push responsibility closer to those 10 business leaders, how long does that take to really start affecting business decisions and on-the-ground results? I'm trying to get a sense of what the time lag typically you would expect after making a move like that? Thanks.

JON MOELLER: Thanks for the bigger picture question, Nik. That's actually something we'll spend some time talking about at CAGNY. It's interesting, the market on a relative inflection point -- standpoint that's growing the strongest, which is the US, is one where these changes were made first.

They were made about a year ago, were basically -- in addition to the 10 categories and their ability to operate somewhat independently, we've sectorized our sales force. So we're going end-to-end from the GBU all the way through to the customer with dedicated sales support. We're not moving people as rapidly across categories.

The GBUs have full decision rights on the amount of resources that are supporting their business from a go-to-market operations standpoint, which has led to some choices quite frankly to increase coverage. In some channels, it's led to choices to hire mid-career talent that has experience in a category that extends beyond the experience of our current employees. So it's having a dramatic impact.

Every change has a slightly different time line in terms of, one, it gets reflected in business results but I think we can -- I think we're making good progress in this area. I think we have more to do. Again, we'll talk about that at CAGNY. I don't think it takes a long period of time to make a difference.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Javier Escalante, Consumer Edge Research.

JAVIER ESCALANTE, ANALYST, CONSUMER EDGE RESEARCH: Hi, good morning, everyone. Going back to Nik's questions, which I don't think -- at least I didn't hear the response, is that could you break out geographically the growth at, say, in emerging markets between -- also between volume and pricing?

Secondly, it is true that volume has been negative four quarters in a row. To what extent you feel that this has been problems in the way you execute pricing as it happened in Russia and Mexico and whether those execution issues have been resolved?

My understanding is that you have removed some of the heads of China and Latin America. All these changes are over. Shall we expect pricing to be less disruptive going forward? Thank you.

JON MOELLER: So first, sorry, I did miss the first part of Nik's question. Thanks for bringing that back.

The relationship of organic volume to organic sales in the October/December quarter, developed markets organic volume was plus 2%, organic sales were plus 3%. If you look at developing organic volume was minus 6%, organic sales were flat versus year-ago.

If you look at those comparisons, they are indicative of exactly what I've said a couple times in this call in terms of what's driving the volume reductions. It's pricing in developing markets to offset FX. Where you don't have as much of an FX impact, for instance, in the developed markets, our volumes grew at 2% on the quarter.

In terms of -- you mentioned Mexico can as an example. We actually had a very good quarter in Mexico. The changes that we've made there we're very pleased with.

Organic sales were up 4% in Mexico in the quarter. Remember, I talked about the tissue/towel impact or the fact that tissue change in the portfolio which has negatively impacted organic sales, that's in Mexico. Excluding that, Mexico organic sales were up 8% in the quarter. Volume was up as well.

So again, there's a bit of noise as we work through the combination of the portfolio and foreign exchange. But we expect volume will grow as we go forward and share will also be something that becomes increasingly attainable.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Joe Altobello with Raymond James.

JOE ALTOBELLO, ANALYST, RAYMOND JAMES & ASSOCIATES, INC.: Hi. Thanks. Good morning. First question is on Brazil. I apologize if I missed this, but what were the Brazilian sales in the quarter? I think last quarter was down 12%. You were hoping for a little bit of bounce back this quarter.

Secondly, on commodities, Jon, you mentioned earlier that you're not seeing the benefit that some would think you would given the move in oil but obviously it is a positive for you this year. So what kind of boost do you see from commodities to earnings this fiscal year? Thanks.

JON MOELLER: Thanks, Joe. Brazil, for the quarter, organic sales were up 11%, that compares to minus 12% the prior quarter. I think that again is another good example of the volatility that's going to occur here as we get the right pricing set in the market and as well, our ability to pull that through and generate growth on a sustainable basis. So again, Brazil was up 11% on the quarter.

In terms of commodities, looked at as a single variant, so just the reduction of input costs, that impact is about $500 million on the fiscal year. Some of that we anticipated going into the year, of course, but that's the amount. I would argue that, in total, in other words, inclusive of consumption impacts in oil producing countries where there's been massive disruption and instability, if you think about markets like Saudi Arabia, markets like certainly Venezuela, I would say that the net impact in our P&L is likely neutral to negative but the pure cost impact is $500 million.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Bill Chappell with SunTrust.

BILL CHAPPELL, ANALYST, SUNTRUST ROBINSON HUMPHREY: Thanks. Good morning. Jon, I just wanted to follow-up, since you had highlighted the changes made both in Mexico and India and the not worth gaining sales, if they're not worth anything. I think you said that costs about 1 point to organic growth in the quarter. If that's right, is that the expected impact for the next two, three quarters and is this kind of a program that may accelerate as we move into FY17?

JON MOELLER: The amount is the correct amount, you're right. It was about 1 point on the quarter. We would expect -- we really started this work in terms of execution in July/September, maybe some in the latter part of last fiscal year.

So we would expect this continue through the next couple quarters, but then it should dissipate going forward. There may be a few additional choices we need to make but in general, you'll see it for the next couple quarters and then it should start to dissipate.

OPERATOR: Your final question comes from the line of Ali Dibadj from Bernstein.

ALI DIBADJ, ANALYST, BERNSTEIN: Hey, guys, thanks for fitting me into the call. Believe it or not, I still have a few questions. One is just go deeper on volumes.

Look, your compares clearly get easier over the next couple quarters, so that should certainly bode well. But can you elaborate a little bit more and perhaps even quantify the inventory management change by retailers and the trade term change that you mentioned in the press release, which is mentioned as a negative. Particularly in the context of what you said on your prepared remarks, which is that sales being slightly ahead of consumption. So give us a sense of the ongoing effects of those if you could? Number one.

Number two is on your FX kind of multiplier between the top-line and the bottom-line impact, why did it change so dramatically versus your 2016 guidance? So what I mean is that in July, your FX impact was going to be negative 4% to 5% top line, negative 3% to 4% bottom line, so kind of a less than 1 ratio. But now it's a negative 7% on top line, negative 10% on the bottom line, so very quickly shifting to a greater than 1 ratio, despite your efforts to localize more, et cetera.

So is that all Argentina devaluation? Or is there some forecasting math that I'm not getting? Or can you give us a sense of how you're business is structured or levered differently than we would expect it, because it's big switch in a short period of time?

Then third question is more in terms of running these conference calls. Should we infer that the decision was made, because I know you guys were thinking about this, that your CEO will not be on these quarterly calls and will only be at things like CAGNY and the annual calls like [AG] was doing? Or are you still in the deciding mode? Thanks for the two questions.

JON MOELLER: On the FX multiplier, as you can imagine the different currencies that have -- we have no ability to forecast which currencies are going to move and how much they're going to move. The top and bottom line relationship between currency movements is very different depending on the market.

It depends on how the market's sourced. It depends on the balance sheet of the market. I mentioned balance sheet revaluations. So for example, in Argentina, we talked about the balance sheet revaluation that occurred there.

So it's really a function of what actually is happening in the marketplace country by country, how we source the markets and what the balance sheet exposure is in different markets. So I guess I'm saying we don't really have a good ability to forecast exactly what the currency impact is going to be on either the top or bottom line. Frankly, we spend very little time thinking about the relationship between the two.

In terms of the comments on trade inventory reduction, that is largely a China dynamic. I've mentioned in prior calls that our inventory levels were too high, particularly in the wholesale channel in China. As a result, our pricing was too low, which was driving a bit of distortion and difficulty for our distributors.

So we have made some choices to address that and that has a short-term volume impact. That's really what that comment was designed to indicate.

Relative to senior executive engagement with the investment community, we tend to be fully engaged with the investment community through a combination of quarterly conference calls, investment conferences, meetings here in Cincinnati. David will be on the road frequently as well interacting with the investment community. So again, our strategy is one of very high engagement.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, that concludes today's conference. Thank you for your participation. You may now disconnect. Have a great day.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
prgml : The Procter & Gamble Company
   IN
i258 : Cosmetics/Toiletries | icnp : Consumer Goods | ipcare : Personal Care Products/Appliances
   NS
c151 : Earnings | cgvfil : Government Filings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Financial Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020160127ec1q0015r
  


 HD
 Q1  2016  Procter  & Gamble Co Earnings Call - Final
   WC
11,070 words
   PD
23 October 2015
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©015 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good morning, and welcome to Procter & Gamble's quarter end conference call. P&G would like to remind you that today's discussion will include a number of forward-looking statements. If you will refer to P&G's most recent 10-K, 10-Q, and 8-K report, you will see a discussion of factors that could cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from these projections.

   TD
Also as required by Regulation G, Procter & Gamble needs to make you aware that during the discussion, the Company will make a number of references to non-GAAP and other financial measures. Procter & Gamble believes these measures provide investors with valuable information on the underlying growth trends of the business, and has posted on its website, www.PG.com, a full reconciliation of non-GAAP and other financial measures.

Now I will turn the call over to P&G's Chief Financial Officer, Jon Moeller.

JON MOELLER, CFO, PROCTER & GAMBLE COMPANY: Good morning. The quarter we just completed was a strong one, from both a cash flow and underlying earnings perspective. Adjusted free cash flow productivity was very strong at 101%. Constant currency core earnings per share increased double-digits, with meaningful triple-digit basis point improvements in both gross and operating margins, on both a constant currency and all-in basis. All-in GAAP earnings per share were up 32%.

Organic sales were down 1 point, reflecting deliberate choices to exit some structurally unprofitable business lines, volatile market conditions, and the early stage we are at in our strengthening and improvement plans on large categories and markets. We're bringing innovations to market, and are making investments in value equations, sampling, and in trial of our products and brands, as well as in selling coverage. We expect organic top-line growth to resume in Q2, with further strengthening in the back half.

We do continue to operate in a challenging and volatile macro environment. Market growth rates on both the volume and value basis are decelerating, due mainly to slower growth in developing markets. We entered the year expecting the market to grow close to 4% globally. We now expect 3%.

There are more flash points across the globe, than at any time in recent memory. Currencies are weakening, pretty much across the board, a $300 million after-tax impact since the start of the fiscal year, and $600 million after-tax versus year ago. This, as you know, comes on top of a $1.5 billion impact last fiscal year, and a $1.1 billion impact the year before.

P&G has leading positions in some of the toughest markets. Versus the next multi-national competitor, our business is over three times larger in Russia and the Ukraine. In Japan, where devaluation has had a significant impact, our business is six times larger than the next largest non-Japanese competitor.

We're almost three times larger in China, where the market has recently slowed. In the Middle East, which has been heavily impacted by political instability, war, crash in oil prices, our business is two times larger than the next multi-national competitor.

These tough markets represent over $14 billion in sales, or roughly 20% of the Company, so they are not trivial. The relative strength of the dollar has made it tougher for us than our euro and yen functional currency competitors. We're facing for example, a 40% devaluation in Russia, while our euro functional competitors are facing half of that. Each of these items are realities, not excuses, and many of these dynamics will continue.

Against this back drop, we're staying focused on big opportunities in our control, executing what is the largest transformation in our Company's history, depth changing productivity, transforming our supply chain, focusing our portfolio, and strengthening category business model and innovation plans. This transformation strategy is ultimately a growth strategy.

We're dramatically improving productivity, with a lot of upside still ahead. In February of 2012, we announced that we would reduce non-manufacturing overhead by 10% over five years. As of September 30, we've reduced these roles by 23%, more than double the original target, and are on track to meet a revised target of 25% to 30% by the end of fiscal 2017.

Our original cost of goods savings target was $6 billion. We expect to deliver over $7 billion by the end of this year, 15% above our initial target.

We've reduced manufacturing enrollment by 15% over the last three years. This includes new staffing necessary to support capacity additions. On a same-site basis, manufacturing enrollment is down nearly 20%. As with overhead, we're targeting a 25% to 30% cumulative reduction by the end of fiscal 2017.

We are strengthening marketing, greater reach, higher frequency, greater effectiveness, at less overall cost. Last year, we reduced the number of agencies we work with by nearly 40%, and cut agency and production spending by $300 million. We're aiming for an additional $200 million of agency-related savings this year. These are non-working savings that enable us to invest in working, media, and sampling dollars.

We're also driving balance sheet productivity. Inventory days are down year on year, payables days are up. The moves we made here have enabled us to extend our long track record of strong adjusted free cash flow productivity, 102% last fiscal year, 101% last quarter, despite the investments we're making in our supply chain.

We continue to maintain our position as one of the strongest cash generators among competitive peers and comparable mega cap companies. We're also among the top companies in returning cash to shareholders. In fiscal 2015, we increased our dividend for the 59th consecutive year, and returned $11.9 billion in cash to shareholders, 105% of adjusted net earnings.

Over the past five years, we've returned $60 billion to shareholders, and intend to pay dividends, retire shares, and repurchase shares worth up to $70 billion over just the next four years. We're transforming our supply chain to lower cost, reduce inventory, improve customer service levels, and increase product quality and process reliability. We're re-siting manufacturing capacity closer to major consumer populations, and our new distribution hubs.

We're shutting down older, more remote single category production sites, and building new, multi-category facilities. We continue to localize manufacturing and sourcing, reducing costs and currency exposure. We're upgrading, automating, and standardizing our operations, improving manufacturing, process reliability and asset utilization rates.

As you know, we are transforming our portfolio. We're centered on a 10 category -- centered on 10 category-based business units, where P&G has leading market positions, strong brands, and consumer meaningful product technologies. These 10 categories have been growing faster with higher margins than the balance of the Company.

These are categories with clear consumer jobs to be done, where product functionality and efficacy matters. They are products that consumers purchase in our channels, and use on a daily basis. We will be a Company of superior brands and products in these 10 product categories.

Within these core businesses, we're also focusing our portfolios to maximize value creation. We're making smart choices for short-, mid-, and long-term value creation, foregoing bad business, even when these choices create short-term top-line pressure.

In the Mexico tissue business, for example, we're shifting our focus from low tier, conventional tissue products to premium tier differentiated products. This will reduce sales by nearly $75 million, over 1% of global category sales, but profit will increase by more than $30 million.

We've made similar choices in fabric care. We are de-prioritizing less profitable, non-strategic brands and product lines and low price offerings to improve the profitability of the business at a trade-off of about 1 point of sales growth in the category.

We've also accepted trade-off of top line for value creation at the market level. In India, for example, we've accepted a reduction in top-line growth from mid teens to high singles, improving local profit margins more than 700 basis points last year. We'll continue to grow, but now the growth will be worth something.

We've been strengthening business unit strategies, business models, and product innovation, putting particular priority against the four largest categories, baby care, fabric care, hair care and grooming, in the two largest markets, the US and China. We're focusing our laundry business on consumer preferred brands and product innovations, like our premium performance and premium priced unit dose detergents, our market leading and market expanding scent bead fabric enhancers. And we're launching better performing, and more profitable new compact liquid detergents in Russia, Turkey, Mexico, Brazil and China.

The fabric care results in the US demonstrate what is possible when we get the strategy balanced, and the innovation program focused on what matters most to consumers, superior value from best-in-class performance, at a modest price premium. The US laundry category is growing again, up 3 points on a value basis across all outlets over the last six month period.

Within this, P&G?s share is growing. US laundry detergent value share was up more than 1 point last fiscal year, and grew again this quarter. Fabric enhancer share was up nearly 1 point over the same period.

In US baby care, strong innovation, consumer communication, trial programs, and a robust online presence have led to strong growth. P&G value share of US diapers was up more than a 1.5 point last fiscal year, and was up a 0.5 point again this quarter. We just launched our latest Pampers Premium tier innovation, and we expect it to help us sustain this strong momentum.

Baby care results have been soft in other markets. To address this, we have accelerated premium innovations on both taped and pull-on diapers to restore our competitiveness at the top end of the market. We're strengthening our selling resources and programs for baby stores, and we're improving our point-of-market entry programs to deliver higher awareness and trial of Pampers among new moms.

The largest male and female grooming brands, Gillette's Fusion and Venus have proven to be, and will continue to be huge platforms for our blade and razor innovation. We've continued the growth of Fusion with a big, obvious, and preferred FlexBall innovation that launched in the US last year. We began rolling out the FlexBall technology in parts of Europe and Asia at the beginning of this calendar year.

In less than 18 months, we've put 25 million Fusion FlexBall razors into the hands of men around the world, and we've recently launched into markets in Latin America, and central and Eastern Europe. We?ve also extended the FlexBall technology to Venus, the best-selling women's razor in the world, with the Venus Swirl innovation.

We're continuing to innovate at the top end of the market to extend the product performance advantage we already enjoy over all competitors. Our new cartridge upgrade will launch in just a few months.

We're supporting a broader range of our product ladder, from our best product, Fusion FlexBall to Mach III systems, to premium price and superior performance disposables, with strong consumer value communication. We're innovating in store, helping retailers move out of the lockboxes on the shelves, and at check-out with the use of hard tags.

Hard tags make Gillette much easier to shop. They take up less space on shelves, so more product can be put on a peg, reducing out of stocks, and improving sales closure rates. And they're very effective at reducing shrink. We've already made the change in several hundred stores with excellent results, and we'll be rolling out hard tags as fast as we can, in the year ahead.

We're also innovating online. With more men purchasing their blades and razors through e-commerce, it's critical that Gillette establishes itself as the online leader. Gillette's online Shave Club launched in June, and is off to a very good start, with e-commerce share of blades and razors up 4 points since launch.

We're building partnerships with e-tailers and retailers. We're offering our shopper's subscription tie-ins for the Gillette Shave Club. Gillette is now consistently number one in paid search, and has gone from number 50 to number 2 in organic Shave Club search. Importantly, Gillette's product is significantly consumer preferred over any and all Shave Club competition, winning on closeness, smoothness, comfort, and 18 other attributes tested including importantly, overall better shave.

We have a strong innovation plan coming to market in China, to capture more of the fast-growing premium tier segment. We're leveraging premium baby care innovations in both the taped and pull-on segments. We're launching compact Arial liquid detergents that consumers prefer over competition, and we have new upgrades coming soon on Tide.

We have made meaningful product and packaging improvements in hair care that launched last quarter on both Head & Shoulders and Pantene. And we're investing to improve the capabilities of our go-to-market operations, strengthening our relationships and presence with key e-commerce and specialty retailers, the fastest growing segments of the Chinese retail market.

We're increasing our investment in consumer awareness, point-of-market entry sampling, and trial across product categories. These moves take time to fully implement, but we're confident they will result in stronger growth over time, just as they've done in US baby care and the fabric care business.

So it continues to be a challenging environment. Against this back drop, we continue to improve productivity, to transform our supply chain, to focus our portfolios, and to invest in superior consumer preferred brands and products. Cash flow is very strong, as are underlying economics.

We're investing in the future, and are confident that we'll return to positive organic top-line growth next quarter. While it's not yet complete, and it's only one month and while we face our toughest comp in December, we're off to a good start with our October organic sales growth at 3% so far.

With that, let me get into the details of the quarter we just completed, and the fiscal year outlook. Two housekeeping items before I begin. First, the organic sales and core earnings results we're reporting today are based on our 10 core product categories. The results of the beauty and batteries businesses that we're in the process of exiting are reported as discontinued operations. In September, we provided an informational 8-K, presenting historical results on the same basis.

Second, starting this period, we are no longer consolidating the results of our Venezuelan subsidiaries into our reported numbers. As I mentioned previously, organic sales were down 1% for the quarter versus the prior year. China and Brazil were large drivers of the sales decline, accounting for 1 point of total Company sales growth headwind. We estimate the category and SKU clean-up efforts drove up to another point of sales decline. All-in sales were down 12%, including a 9 point headwind from foreign exchange, and 2 points from the Venezuela deconsolidation and other minor brand divestitures.

Core gross margin and core operating margin both improved, on both an all-in and ex-currency basis driven by productivity savings. Core gross margin increased 250 basis points versus the prior year. Excluding foreign exchange, core gross margin was up 310 basis points. Core operating margin was up 270 basis points versus the prior year, behind 260 basis points of productivity savings. On a constant currency basis, core operating margin was up 320 basis points.

The core effective tax rate was 24%, up 1.5 point versus the prior year, a $0.02 per share drag on core earnings per share. Core earnings per share were $0.98, down 1% versus the prior quarter. This includes a 13 percentage point foreign exchange headwind, nearly $400 million after-tax. On a constant currency basis, core earnings per share grew 12%.

On an all-in GAAP basis, earnings per share were $0.91 for the quarter, up 32% versus the prior year. We generated $3 billion in free cash flow, yielding 101% adjusted free cash flow productivity. We returned approximately $2.4 billion to shareholders, through a combination of $1.9 billion in dividend, and a $0.5 billion in share repurchase.

Moving to guidance. As we said last quarter, we expect fiscal 2016 to be a year given market volatility, FX headwinds, and pricing of modest top line growth, solid core operating income growth, robust constant currency core earnings per share growth, and strong 90% to 100% adjusted free cash flow productivity.

We're maintaining our outlook for organic sales growth of, in line to up low single digits versus fiscal 2015. We have been investing to increase awareness and trial of our brands and products in North America, which is a key catalyst for growth in categories like fabric care and grooming. We're starting to see the benefits, and this should improve in the second half of the year.

We're launching a number of new consumer preferred premium innovations over the next few months, and early in the second half of the fiscal year in both developed and developing markets. We're investing in selling coverage to capitalize on opportunities in the fastest growing channels, and strengthen our presence in our most important markets. All of these efforts, along with annualizing some of the most significant impacts from last fiscal year, give us confidence in a stronger second quarter and second half.

The headwind from foreign exchange has increased since the start of the year. We now expect FX will have a 5 to 6 percentage point impact on all-in sales growth. Also the combined impact of the Venezuela deconsolidation and minor brand divestitures will have a 2 to 3 percentage point drag on all-in sales growth.

Taken together, we expect all-in sales to be down high single digits, versus restated fiscal 2015 results. Bottom line outcomes are frankly, much more difficult to assess, given the market and foreign exchange rate volatility. For now, we're maintaining our outlook for core earnings per share growth of slightly below, to up mid single digits versus year ago.

We will invest where it's appropriate to do so. We will not cut smart investment to offset foreign exchange impacts, which means we could very well end up below the guidance range. On the other hand, we're working to accelerate and enhance productivity, and commodities have generally been a help. We'll see how things develop, and we'll update you as needed.

We're also maintaining our all-in GAAP earnings per share growth outlook of up 53% to 63%. With continued strong operating margin expansion, we expect to deliver core operating income growth of mid- to high-single digits. This includes the $0.05 to $0.06 of per share drag on operating earnings from the deconsolidation of results in our Venezuelan business, and it includes $0.02 to $0.03 per share of Beauty deal transition costs that will remain in our core earnings results. So strong underlying operating earnings progress, which excluding the $0.08 impact from these items, should be up high singles to low double-digits.

Our key assumptions on items below the core operating profit line have not changed. We continue to expect non-operating income will be a 2 to 3 percentage point drag on core earnings per share growth, mainly impacting the fourth quarter. The core effective tax rate should be about 24% for fiscal 2016, about 3 points higher than last year. Combined, non-operating income and tax will be a 6 to 7 percentage point impact on core earnings per share growth.

Finally and importantly, we expect to retire shares at a value of approximately $8 billion to $9 billion, through a combination of direct share repurchase, and shares that will be exchanged in the Duracell transaction. In addition to the shares we expect to retire, we expect dividend payments of more than $7 billion. In total, $15 billion to $16 billion in dividend payments, share exchanges, and share repurchase. Going forward, we are committed to balanced top- and bottom-line growth, and strong free cash flow productivity to drive total shareholder return.

We will address gaps, if and when they emerge. We will defend our positions, and we will invest behind trial and awareness programs, and of course, consumer preferred innovation. We'll do everything we can, from a productivity standpoint. We'll smartly invest to accelerate top-line growth, and we'll continue delivering on our commitment of strong cash return to shareholders.

That concludes our prepared remarks for this morning. As a reminder, business segment information is provided in our press release, and will be available in slides which will be posted on our website, www.PG.com following the call. With that, I would be happy to take your questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions)

Your first question comes from the line of Chris Ferrara, Wells Fargo.

CHRIS FERRARA, ANALYST, WELLS FARGO SECURITIES, LLC: Hey, thanks. Jon, I guess, can you quantify the gross margin impact, maybe of some of that category SKU clean-up that you're doing? And then, I guess, as a follow up to that, how long does it last? I think the three examples you gave were maybe 10 basis points each. You said a 100 basis points, which is a pretty big deal. I guess, how long has that been going on, how long you think it lasts, what's the gross margin impact of it? And then, if you can, the outlook into October, what's been going on? I mean, how much of that is -- maybe some of this going away, like what drives the confidence in October being sticky? Thank you.

JON MOELLER: So I would say, that we are mid way through the portfolio clean-up of the core businesses. For example, the Mexico tissue towel move really was just effective in July. The laundry moves spanned the end of last fiscal year and the beginning of this fiscal year. So there's -- we're about in the middle of that, with still some more work to do. So that will continue to have an impact on the top line.

Obviously, as you point out, that's a gross margin accretive endeavor. I honestly, haven't worked to calculate that specifically, Chris, so we'll have to give you some perspective off line on that. Relative to confidence in Q2 and going forward, there are several things that drive us from where we are, to where we will be. The big core businesses that we've been working on, are continuing to strengthen.

So, and I talked about fabric care and baby care in the US, where market growth has improved as a result of innovation in the category, where our shares are continuing to increase. Baby care, actually we're selling through our capacity currently, and our -- on allocation. So that will come off over time, and that will be a help. Importantly, some of the other kind of structural items we have been working to address, we've talked Mexico, we've talked China. Mexico is progressing very nicely. They had a quarter that I think indexed 98, versus year ago, which is up pretty significantly from where it's been, and we expect that to turn to a positive index next quarter.

China, we also expect progress, as we bring these premium innovations to market, as I described, and as we continue to draw down some of the inventory that's in the trade. And also as I mentioned, we're increasing investment where it makes sense, in smart ways, to drive trial and sampling of our products, particularly at points-of-market entry and points of market change, and the early returns on those are encouraging. So that's the simple story. Going forward, again, we're fairly confident that the second quarter will be a quarter of growth organically on the top line, and we're fairly confident that the growth will strengthen, as we move through the fiscal year.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Bill Schmitz, Deutsche Bank.

BILL SCHMITZ, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Hey, Jon, good morning.

JON MOELLER: Morning, Bill.

BILL SCHMITZ: Hey, can we talk about the EM versus developed market growth, so like what the two growth rates were? And then, how much do you think of the market share softness, is you guys sort of like deciding to exit categories, versus just losing to competitors? And then, how long do you think that is going to last? Like so, are we at a point at P&G, where the big negative mix from emerging markets will be cleaned up, in the not too distant future, because you've exited a lot of this low end stuff which was like horribly gross margin dilutive? Because obviously, historically some of the low margin mix stuff in emerging markets on that business grew so rapidly, had a huge, onerous impact on the Company broadly. So have we -- have you made significant process in that front, where the negative mix on the emerging markets business will be a lot less going forward?

JON MOELLER: So the split of organic sales growth, developed, developing, developed was minus 1, developing was minus 2. I mentioned in the prepared remarks, that Brazil and China were significant impacts in driving that minus 2 in developing, as was as you rightly point out, some of the portfolio clean-up efforts, which are disproportionately developing market activities.

Yes, as Chris asked, they will improve gross margin. They will improve operating margin. And yes, that will help reduce negative mix impact from disproportionate growth, should it resume in developing markets. As I mentioned in my response to Chris? answer, there is still work to do. So if this was a quarter, or next quarter was a quarter where developing markets grew faster than developed markets, we would still have a negative mix on the margin line. But it is getting better.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of John Faucher, JPMorgan.

JOHN FAUCHER, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Thanks. Jon, you guys talk a lot about competitive activity in the press release. And it's mentioned for each GBU, which I guess, relates to your view of FX-related pricing, versus your competitors view of FX-related pricing. So can you talk a little bit about why you guys feel the need to maybe take more pricing than what you're seeing? Is that just simply, okay, European-based companies see less of a need, what have you? Because I guess, it seems like you might be better off maybe taking less pricing, and delivering 100 basis points of gross margin expansion versus 250. So how should we think about that balance, and why you guys maybe need to take more pricing than your competitors?

JON MOELLER: We start from a position of a stronger currency than many of our competitors. So I mentioned in the prepared remarks, Russia, as an example where we're dealing with 40% devaluation. Both euro and yen functional currency competitors are dealing with about 20%. So that dollar dynamic against all currencies, including the euro and the yen, drives a bigger issue. That doesn't mean that we will necessarily price more. We need to be pragmatic in what we do.

I've talked before about recovering less through pricing this time around, and recovering more through a combination of mix and cost savings which we are doing. We're in the period of the cycle where we have made our moves, as we -- and we're typically first in that endeavor, just because of the fact that we're the market leaders in many of these markets, and competitors are beginning to respond. I obviously, can't talk in a lot of granularity about pricing from a competitive standpoint, but what I will tell you is that, that the moves in the market are generally constructive, not all constructive, and not all well understood.

This is something we'll continue to work against every day, every week but -- and we'll do it very pragmatically. I'm not interested in price levels that are not sustainable. Obviously, our consumers are not interested those levels of pricing either. But for example, in Russia, where we had negative gross margins as a result of the currency devaluation, we simply have to make a move. Making a choice to maintain stronger top-line growth with negative margins is just a value destructive activity.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Dara Mohsenian with Morgan Stanley.

DARA MOHSENIAN, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Hey, good morning. So Jon, I'm still struggling a bit with the emerging markets trends. Obviously, the rationalization on the lower end is having some impact, but its business is nearly $25 billion in sales in aggregate. It's still kind of hard for me to understand conceptually, how you guys are posting declines when most of your peers at least so far this quarter, are more in the high single digit or double digit type of growth range. So I was just hoping you could give us a bit more detail, on what you think is driving the underperformance? How much of it is the portfolio rationalization? Is it a greater macro impact, or what are the key factors behind it, again on a relative basis? And then, the plans to close that gap going forward? Thanks.

JON MOELLER: Sure. The biggest -- let's just talk BRIC markets. China, our second largest market, so makes a significant difference, both from a top-line and bottom-line standpoint. We have not fully accessed the opportunity that the market is presenting in terms of growth in the premium price tiers, as consumers look for better, more differentiated solutions, and frankly higher product quality. We are bringing those items to market now, but our absence in those price tiers has frankly, hurt us fairly significantly.

Diapers is a good example, that I mentioned, where we're still the market leader with Pampers, but we really are not present in the portions of the market that are growing, which are the top tier. Which we'll now be, with both a pant and taped offering.

We've also talked about some trade channel and inventory clean-up that has been ongoing, and that work continues as well. So China was down 8% on the quarter on an organic basis. Russia is the next largest big developing market for us. And we've talked a little bit, both in the prepared remarks and in the Q&A, on some of the challenges that presents us. And we're the largest player, again by a factor of 3 in both Russia and the Ukraine. So we're -- we have -- the impacts there are disproportional. Having said that, Russia is actually holding up fairly well. 2% organic sales growth in the quarter, when you consider everything that's going on, that's a pretty good number. But obviously, well below the numbers that we were posting a year ago, or two years ago.

Brazil is very volatile. We just took some pricing there. It's hard to sort through the trends. Last quarter, we were up 7[%]. This quarter, we were down 12[%]. But if you look at consumption in the marketplace, it was essentially flat. So I think will -- that's another one of those items that should reverse itself, as we move forward here.

And India, I've talked about the moves that we've made to increase profitability, albeit at some cost to the top line. I realize that's not an exhaustive comparison across the competitive set. But just with those four dynamics I've described in those four big markets, I think that it at least helps understand why our results in developing may not be as strong as some of the others, and why that has a large impact on the Company.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Steve Powers with UBS.

STEVE POWERS, ANALYST, UBS: Thanks. So I guess, just a question on guidance. Versus the outlook a quarter ago, it looks like you're now expecting the overall top line 3 to 4 points worse than in early August. And obviously, you've held your EPS guidance for now. So I guess, really two things. First, the 2 to 3 point headwind from minor brand divestitures and deconsolidation of Venezuela. How much of that wasn't known a few months ago, because Venezuela itself wasn't new this quarter, unless I'm mistaken?

And then second, the new guidance seems to imply EBIT margins about 100 basis points better rough math, versus the guidance a quarter ago, when you factor in that top-line reduction which is $600 million or $700 million. So where is that margin being sourced from? I know you mentioned commodities, but planned for productivity has to be a big role. And I'm just curious, to where that's going to be targeted?

JON MOELLER: Thanks, Steve. The 2 to 3 points on Venezuela and divestitures is not new. You're absolutely right about that. We didn't explicitly talk it in the last call. We wanted to make sure that was clear, so we put it in this call.

There's an implicit assumption that one has to make, when one tries to determine how much more EBIT we're expecting, and that assumption is where we actually are in the guidance range. So while we've retained our range, that doesn't mean that we're necessarily at the top or the middle of that range. And there's a ton of moving pieces, as I indicated.

There is some good news there, relative to the productivity savings that you saw come through in the first quarter. Frankly, those were larger than we were expecting, and also there's some commodity help. But honestly, as I tried to indicate in the prepared remarks, I'm not overly fixated right now on guidance or updating guidance, simply because it's very difficult to do. What I'm fixated on, is getting the right choices made, on being as productive as we possibly can, and doing that. And the guidance will be what it will be, but at this point no change.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Wendy Nicholson with Citi.

WENDY NICHOLSON, ANALYST, CITI INVESTMENT RESEARCH: Hi. I had just a couple quick follow-ups, and then a real question. My first follow-up is, in terms of the gross margin specifically -- like I have to go back five years to find a first quarter that has a gross margin as strong as the one you put up. And are you saying, just in terms of net of investments, was the gross margin you put up a function of product mix and the pricing you've taken, et cetera, et cetera? Is this a new base for the first quarter gross margin, or do you feel like if you could turn the clock back, you should have spent more, and maybe this gross margin is going prove to have been inflated?

My second follow-up is just -- did I hear you say that your outlook for global category growth has gone from 4% to 3%? And if that's the case, why do you still feel like you can put up the same organic growth that you did before? I don't understand why you wouldn't have brought that down, in concert with that change.

And then sorry for the last question, but over the last month we've seen the news that Tarek [sic ? Tarek Farahat] is leaving from Brazil and Martin is leaving. And the last time, we had a really new CEO when Bob came in, there was an enormous amount of transition in management. And I think my take was that, that led to an enormous amount of volatility and disruption across the organization. So the question is, do you expect, is the number of management transitions and changes to continue? Do you think there are going to be more? And if that's the case, how is David going to manage this transition and period of change better than Bob did, because it seems like more change is not what you need right now? Thank you.

JON MOELLER: On gross margin, we've mentioned productivity. We mentioned pricing. We've mentioned commodities. All of those impacted the gross margin result we delivered. John can give you the details offline, but within the gross margin number of 250, 170 of that is savings. There's 80 points of pricing benefit. There's 110 points of commodity benefit, and there are, of course, some offsets to that.

So how much of that is sustainable going forward? I mean, the commodities will sustain itself until it annualizes obviously. And so, that's probably as big as it's going to get, and pricing will also annualize itself over time. We would hope that some level of productivity savings and cost of goods would continue, as we continue to localize production and sourcing, and as we continue to increase the efficiency of our manufacturing operations.

In terms of the organic top line, again, this is a question of ranges in a sense. Our guidance is flat, to up low singles. The quarter we just posted was minus 1[%].

We're talking about improvement in Q2, with strengthening beyond that. So even if Q2 was zero, which we?re not anticipating, and the back half was plus 1[%], we would still be within that guidance range. So we just don't see a reason to change the guidance range. Where we come out within that, is a matter that we'll have to work against, and a matter that you'll have to assess.

In terms of organization change, I really -- I don't want to speak for David. He will begin interacting with this group shortly, and I'll let him communicate his view on that. My view is we have a very strong team. I believe we've made changes -- we've both made changes, and individuals have made changes relative to their own plans, as a result of the announcements that have been made, and as the result of the situation in the business. So I don't see a period personally, of very high volatility in management staffing going forward. I think this period will be characterized by a lot more continuity than frankly, either when the transition with Bob occurred, or has been the case over the last year.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Lauren Lieberman with Barclays.

LAUREN LIEBERMAN, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Thanks, good morning. So a couple things, two follow-ups, just like Wendy had, and then a separate one. So first was just on the Venezuela deconsolidation and the product exits. I just got a little more confused. Jon, you'd said that you guys have always included it in the guidance, but we weren't aware of it, so you're just being more explicit this quarter? But yet the net sales guidance did get worse. So I'm just a little confused -- like why call it out not, if -- something did change. Okay, so that's one.

Two is just, you mentioned in the introduction, in your first bit of prepared remarks about making value investments, and then kind of nothing afterwards. So was curious where you've maybe adjusted pricing a little bit, maybe in Russia, went a little bit too far, so anything there? And then finally, was also in the press release, there was -- I thought the language was interesting about, we will invest smartly, like future tense, not currently? So you gave some examples, I think of where you're already maybe investing at a full load, like fabric and baby in the US. But where are areas that you are not yet investing, in what you would call a full level? And does that imply that maybe marketing spending starts to climb up again in the second half, as you have more of this innovation or product plans in place that you're comfortable supporting? Thanks.

JON MOELLER: Okay. On the top line, the change quarter to quarter is really FX, in terms of what causes us to take that all-in number down. And again, John can take you through the details there, but that's the primary driver of the change. In terms of investments and consumer value equation, you're right that we did roll back some of the price increases that we took in Russia, consistent with our ongoing dialogue about how we'll manage that situation.

I want to be very careful about price signaling. So I can't really talk about decisions that have been made to address additional price gaps, but those decisions have been made. And that's the case of both in developing markets, but also some developed market price gaps that need to be addressed. And on the question of investment, yes, we expect marketing to increase this year, on both on an absolute basis and a percentage of sales basis. By marketing, I mean working dollars. So we're going to continue to fund increases in spending that matters, with reduction in spending that doesn't.

And look, if I was asked to spend an additional billion dollars tomorrow, I could obviously do that, but that's not the question. The question is, can we earn a return on that, and create value through that investment? As we have more to invest behind, and you rightly mentioned the product portfolio, for example, as we're bringing these innovations to market, we will do that. I think you saw -- I don't have the numbers right in front of me -- but in your conference in Boston in the fall, we showed the pretty significant increases in marketing support, where we did have a reason to invest behind unit dose and laundry in the US, behind the hair care innovations, et cetera.

So we, look, let me just be as clear as I can about this. We don't like the top-line situation. We don't accept the top-line situation. We will fix the top-line situation, but we need to do that in ways that are smart and sustainable.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Joe Altobello with Raymond James.

JOE ALTOBELLO, ANALYST, RAYMOND JAMES & ASSOCIATES, INC.: Hey, guys, good morning. First question, I guess, it's for you Jon, in terms of the EPS guide for this year. I'm just trying to bridge it from last year's $3.76. If you look at the headwinds you guys have, I know you're well aware of this. They add up to about somewhere between $0.60 and $0.65 by our math. So I'm just trying to figure out what the positives are here?

Obviously, the cost of goods savings you guys have called out is $1.2 billion. But I'm not sure if you guys have talked about the tailwind from commodities this year. I've got roughly $400 million in my notes here. Maybe what kind of overhead savings are you guys expecting to try to bridge that $0.65 gap if you will, number one. And then number two, if you look at Duracell and the Beauty brands you guys are selling, obviously, you are selling them, but they are still part of your business. So much of a distraction are they, in terms of your day-to-day operations until you do divest those businesses? Thanks.

JON MOELLER: So the other drivers of improvement -- you mentioned commodities. That's -- you are in the order -- right order of magnitude, probably $450 million, it's gotten a little better. There are overhead savings. We had pretty significant reductions in enrollment last year. There are non-working marketing savings. I mentioned in the prepared remarks another $200 million reduction in marketing, and those are all things that are helping us.

In terms of the distraction on the businesses that we're running through discontinued operations, I wouldn't label it in any way a distraction. I mean, we're fully committed to optimize and manage those businesses, just as if we still owned them, because, guess what, we do. What we haven't been able to do, and what I look forward to being able to do -- I know we all look forward to being able to do, is as those divestitures close, being able to focus all of our energy and our effort on these 10 product categories, where we feel very confident we can make a difference. So that is not fully activated if you will, as we continue managing the business, but frankly as much as we did last year.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Olivia Tong with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.

OLIVIA TONG, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Great. Thank you. First on the savings, you had a very good start to the year, and probably better than you guys had expected. So first can you talk about the sustainability of that, because in past years you tend to see the savings build as the year progresses? So has the cadence of that changed, or could we even see more in terms of a savings acceleration there?

And then just on the top line, I understand clearly, there's been a ton of change over the last -- let's call it, 24 months, the productivity improvements, the transformation of the portfolio, the exit of less profitable businesses. But even if you add back those minor divestitures, you still would have probably put up organic sales decline, or you would have put up organic sales decline in three of the five segments? So you gave some examples about Brazil and China, and a couple other geographies. But can you talk through what's underlying that, maybe what are you factoring in terms of macros, when you look for that acceleration in growth, as the year progresses? Thank you.

JON MOELLER: Sure. So the savings number was indeed significant. And as I've said, it was more actually than we were expecting to see. We're very happy to see that, and that gives us more confidence in our savings objectives going forward.

The -- as with past years, the incremental savings should build as the year goes on. The area that there will be less sequential progress is in overhead, simply because the reduction this year is not as significant as it was last year. And from a marketing standpoint, we're going to be spending those savings back behind the things that we've been talking about. So I don't -- I actually haven't looked at the quarter-by-quarter cadence. I've been kind of working to get this quarter wrapped up. But I know John can give you some perspective on that.

In terms of the top line, the way -- the simple way to look at it -- and I would argue that on an adjusted basis or an underlying basis, top line is currently growing at about 1%, which again is nothing we're happy with. How do I get from minus 1[%] to 1[%]? There's about 1 point of the portfolio clean-up. There's also about 1 point of one-time impacts.

So for example, I mentioned that we're selling through our capacity on baby care in the US, and that's constraining the amount of growth that's possible. We're making adjustments for example, in inventory levels. We're through that in Mexico, we're getting through that in China. So if you take all of that out, and by the way I'm not suggesting one should -- just trying to answer your question -- you'd get to about a plus 1[%] running rate.

And from there, as I mentioned, when we're able to fully activate the things that are working, and address some of the things that aren't working that that should accelerate. And that there's no reason that we should be comfortable with growth that's any less than the rate of the market growth over time. I'm not talking about a quarter here, or a quarter there, but in total. And that's what we're committed to work towards.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Javier Escalante with Consumer Edge Research.

JAVIER ESCALANTE, ANALYST, CONSUMER EDGE RESEARCH: Hello. Good morning, everyone. I wanted to come back to this issue of volatility in emerging markets, because there is an internal element to it, meaning pricing decisions. And I'm glad to learn that Russia and Mexico are normalizing. But there were deep contractions in the prior quarter, and they were caused either because too much promotions, or too heavy price increases. Now China is down 8%, baby and diapers are down 3% to 4% at a time that they should have benefited from big launches, that [A.G.] has spoke being rolled out in July. So why this volatility is not self-inflicted if you will, and is not a byproduct of headcount reductions, and changes in the role of the GBUs and local markets that you now call SMOs? Thank you.

JON MOELLER: First of all, to address specifically the point of minus 3% in babies and family, that's driven by a couple things. One, in feminine care, we're comping the big launch of Discrete, the adult incontinence product. So that has an impact. Two, I mentioned the family care choices, and I mentioned they are a 1 point impact on that category.

Three, I mentioned baby care softness outside the US, and the fact that we're really just getting the product in the marketplace in China, that will allow us to compete with effectiveness in the premium tier. So it's really -- it's not self-induced volatility. It's those things I just described.

In terms of pricing for FX, in an uncertain competitive and consumer environment, there will be volatility. We need to work to get that as right as we can and reduce the volatility, but I don't think that it's just a realist expectation that there won't be any of that volatility.

I think we also confuse ourselves a little bit, when we look quarter to quarter. These things always have big impacts, usually first positive, and then negative. Positive, as you announce a price increase, and volume sells in ahead of that price increase. Negative afterwards, as that inventory is drawn down, and as consumers adjust to the new pricing in the marketplace. So this is somewhat of a -- just the reality of our times if you will. Again, I don't excuse the need to be as proficient -- and effective and efficient in this area as we need to be. That's certainly what we're striving for.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Ali Dibadj with Bernstein.

ALI DIBADJ, ANALYST, BERNSTEIN: Hey, guys. I have a few things. One is, just to know if Dave Taylor will be on these quarterly calls, or just on the fiscal year end call. Two, why are you not buying back more stock, if you think things will improve? It only looks like $0.5 billion. And then on that improvement story, I mean, we've had false starts on the same kind of discourse before or soliloquy I think.

And correct me, if I'm wrong, but you guys haven't been happy with your top line for awhile. So why should investors believe you this time that things will improve? And specifically, on this volume point, again we've seen that every segment says, competitive activity and price increases were negative on volume. What tactically are you doing differently? What are you bringing to bear differently now, to get out of that situation? And specifically, I want to know if it's finally, finally, finally closing some of these price gaps, versus your competition where you're losing share? Kind of this [type Thursday] image, that we at least have? Or are you just waiting and hoping for competition to go away as FX eases?

Because you do say, building awareness, you do say sometimes closing value gaps. But I really want to know if we should expect your price gaps to close, where you're losing share? And if we -- and what you're modeling for your competitors response in that instance?

JON MOELLER: Thanks, Ali. Honestly, David and I have not had a chance to talk about how we're going to proceed going forward, with the totality of investor interaction, but he will be certainly well represented -- is already interacting with investors. We have a day scheduled here November 4 -- I think some of you know or 5, and he will join us for that as well. So we will get David fully involved, and we'll update you on just exactly how that's going to work, when we have a better view of that.

In terms of your (laughter) comment on dialogue versus soliloquy, I certainly hope that this is a dialogue. That's what I look forward to. I get no value out of a soliloquy. And you've been good, in this regard in terms of maintaining a very active dialogue which I appreciate.

On the question on price gaps, and where we're losing share. I would say things fall into three or four buckets, and it's not one solution solves everything. There are some places like the bad businesses I've described, where losing share is the right thing to do. And so, those share losses are going to work to get behind this and get to a profitable position, so that growth is worth something.

There are cases as I've mentioned where we do need to adjust pricing, and we will do that. There are other cases, where improvement in the value equation that's required to reverse share loss comes through a much better product offering, where the benefits of that offering are much more clearly communicated to consumers. And it comes with getting that preferred better product in consumers? hands, not just telling them about it, but allowing them to experience it.

I talked about investments in sampling and trial. We frankly haven't been as strong as we need to be at key sampling and trial opportunities, specifically points of market entry, and points of market change, and we're strengthening our programs there. I mentioned putting 25 million FlexBall razors in the hands of men across the world. Telling them about that product is one thing, putting it in their hands changes the dynamic pretty significantly.

And another example where we're working to strengthen that is in laundry, where we're increasing our washing machine sampling. And importantly we're doing that for the first time with unit dose, so that the experience consumers get to experience our best most convenient product, as they set up their household. So it's really -- it's across the board, but yes, where we do need to address value gaps, we will. Again, how you do that is going to differ by individual situation.

On share repurchase, we're committed to the same amount of repurchase that I described in the last call. That hasn't changed. Recall that with the Duracell transaction, there's a significant cash component. And so, we've been managing our share repurchase pattern, if you will, with full knowledge of that, that is coming up in the first part of the year. And also with an eye towards what our credit metrics are. But we will repurchase shares on an increasing rate, as we move forward here.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Jason English with Goldman Sachs.

JASON ENGLISH, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Hey, good morning, Jon. Thanks for squeezing me in. I want to touch on a couple of questions, that others have already touched on.

It was encouraging to hear your comments, in regards to John Faucher's question about competitors generally beginning to follow your lead on pricing. But I think, a few other instances, you've referenced you maybe positioning to go the other way, on a go-forward. And I was intrigued with your comment, of increasing investment at points of market entry, and points of market change. This sounded like a fancy way of saying, more promotions, more sampling, more couponing. So, A, is that the right interpretation? And B, back to Ali's question, what do you expect competitors to do on a go-forward, and could that even create more problems down the road?

And then the second part, sticking with point of sale and execution. You're fairly far in now, to the change of merchandising in the US, with the partnership with Acosta and Kraft. Can you update us on what you've learned, how it's progressed? And maybe, how it's changing as you evolve with those learnings, and of course, Kraft changes ownership hands? Thank you.

JON MOELLER: We will not in most cases, be looking to promotion as a way to strengthen our business. We will be competitive where we need to be, but that is not going to be something that we proactively increase. We may increase trade spending at any point in time, as a mechanism of adjusting price. But generally that's not our game.

If you look at price, which includes promotion as a driver of top line, it had a 2 point -- it was a 2 point positive impact in the quarter we just completed. It's been a positive impact for the last 20 quarters, and positive impact for the last 11 years. So we are not going to be using that, as a way to improve our situation, though we will remain competitive. The reason for that is fairly straightforward. There's nothing that is really proprietary in that.

So as you rightly indicated, that's the mechanism we use to adjust every value equation. That can be done, undone, very quickly and very easily. We much prefer to establish superior value equations, with superior products that are adequately supported. And that's also the reason why, maybe the top line isn't turning as quickly as certainly we would like, or understandably as you would like, because we are not going to do -- we are not going to spend money just to spend money.

We are not going to spending money in ways, that they are not sustainable, in terms of generating growth in a profitable way on our business. And I apologize, Jason, I'm just not that familiar with the Acosta Kraft dynamics at a granular level. So I need to pass on that one, but again, we can try to get you that perspective offline.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Bill Chappell with SunTrust.

BILL CHAPPELL, ANALYST, SUNTRUST ROBINSON HUMPHREY: Thanks. Good morning. Hey, Jon, just follow-up on David Taylor who will start in 10 days. I mean, should we view everything you've been saying in the state of the state, as part of the way he's thinking? Or is there a time frame beyond the November meeting, or some time by year-end that he's going to lay out any kind of different path? Just trying to understand that.

And then, as a follow-up is the timing on Duracell still March-ish? Is that what you were saying?

JON MOELLER: The timing on Duracell should be in the January or March quarter, and within that, don't have a month nailed down, but it should be in that quarter. Obviously, from a substance standpoint, I don't want to front run David. And so, do not want to be representing his point of view. I want him to represent his point of view.

We will look for opportunities to do that, as soon as it's practical. Obviously, he starts November 1. We get pretty quickly into the holiday season then. And so at minimum, what we've said, is that David will join us when we're all together at CAGNY. And I think also, by that time, you can have some more conviction on what he indicates the path forward is, simply because he will have had the appropriate amount of time to develop that thinking. But as I said, we'll look for any opportunity we can, to increase exposure as time goes on.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Mark Astrachan with Stifel.

MARK ASTRACHAN, ANALYST, STIFEL NICOLAUS: Yes, thanks, and good morning, everybody. Jon, I wanted to understand a little bit better, maybe the balance of price and volume going forward, just sort of broadly, what is in your expectations for the year? And then, perhaps if that's changed, along with the expectations for global growth rate?

JON MOELLER: We do expect improvement in volume, as we go through the year. It will be lower than sales. So pricing will be a bigger driver for the balance of the year. Obviously, that gap will narrow as we go through quarter by quarter.

I apologize, I forgot the second part of your question? But you can feel free to call me, I apologize.

OPERATOR: Your final question comes from the line of Alicia Forry had with Canaccord.

ALICIA FORRY, ANALYST, CANACCORD GENUITY: Oh, hi, thanks for squeezing me in. Most of my questions have been answered here. But just to press you a bit more on the competitive activity that we've all been focusing on. I was wondering if you could give us any color on whether that has intensified at all, versus recent trends? Or if it's sort of more of the same, just a bit weaker generally around the world, but some more color? And then, if you could possibly contrast the competitive activity that you're seeing in emerging markets versus mature markets, if there are any significant differences in the nature of that competition?

And then just finally, on disposals I know that at the Coty call, you guys said that you're basically -- you've completed your intended major disposals. But I was just wondering if maybe could we see a handful of the larger non-core brands being sold over the next 12 to 18 months, because it looks to me like there's still possible areas that could be considered non-core to the strategy? Thanks.

JON MOELLER: Thanks, Alicia. The competitive activity we're seeing is actually pretty constructive as I mentioned earlier, both on the pricing front and on the product front. So the big driver of competition, for example, in China and baby care, is product-based innovation at the premium end. That's very constructive, from a market standpoint.

If we look at competitive activity for instance, in the laundry market in the US, take Persil, as an example. That's product based innovation at the premium end. We haven't been as well-positioned as we need to be, to respond to some of that -- some of those moves, like for instance in baby care in China, but it's generally constructive. I mean, there are pockets here and there, where things happen that we wouldn't have chosen, but broadly good competition.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, that concludes today's conference. Thank you for your participation. You may now disconnect. Have a great day.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
prgml : The Procter & Gamble Company
   IN
i258 : Cosmetics/Toiletries | icnp : Consumer Goods | ipcare : Personal Care Products/Appliances
   NS
c151 : Earnings | cgvfil : Government Filings | gforex : Foreign Exchange (Personal Finance) | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Financial Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | gpersf : Personal Finance | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020151024eban0020b
  


 HD
 Q4  2015  Procter  & Gamble Co Earnings Call - Final
   WC
14,149 words
   PD
30 July 2015
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©015 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good morning and welcome to Procter & Gamble's quarter-end conference call. Today's discussion will include a number of forward-looking statements. If you will refer to P&G's most recent 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K reports, you will see a discussion of factors that could cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from these projections.

   TD
As required by Regulation G, P&G needs to make you aware that during the call the Company will make a number of references to non-GAAP and other financial measures. Management believes these measures provide investors valuable information on the underlying growth trends of the business.

Organic refers to reported results excluding the impacts of acquisitions and divestitures and foreign exchange where applicable. Adjusted free cash flow represents operating cash flow, less capital expenditures and excluding tax payments for the pet care divestiture.

Adjusted free cash flow productivity is the ratio of adjusted free cash flow to net earnings adjusted for impairment charges and Venezuela charges. Any measure described as core refers to the equivalent GAAP measure adjusted for certain items. Currency neutral refers to the equivalent GAAP measure excluding the impact of foreign-exchange rate changes. P&G has posted on its website www.pg.com a full reconciliation of non-GAAP and other financial measures.

Now I will turn the call over to P&G's Chief Financial Officer, Jon Moeller.

JON MOELLER, CFO, THE PROCTER & GAMBLE COMPANY: Good morning. As you know, earlier this week we announced that David Taylor had been elected and appointed as the new Chief Financial Officer of the Company, which becomes effective November 1 -- sorry, Chief Executive Officer. And so joining me this morning is A.G. Lafley. I'm going to start a discussion with a review of the fiscal year and fourth quarter results, then A.G. will discuss our business strategy and ongoing moves to transform the Company, and I will close with guidance for fiscal 2016.

One reminder before we begin, unless noted otherwise, the organic sales and core earnings results we're reporting today continue to include the beauty categories that we're in the process of exiting. The results of these businesses will be reported as discontinued operations starting with the first quarter of fiscal 2016. In September we will provide an informational 8-K presenting historical results of these businesses as discontinued operations.

Another important accounting item to point out before we get started is the decision we've made to move from consolidation accounting to cost method accounting for Venezuela in our GAAP financial statements. While this decision is effective for periods beginning July 1, it entails a one-time non-core write-down of fixed assets, cash and receivables of about $2.1 billion or $0.71 per share that is reflected our fourth-quarter 2015 numbers.

We were committed to continue to serve Venezuelan consumers. The change we've made to our accounting simply reflects our continued inability to convert currency or pay dividends.

Now on to our discussion of 2015 results. We accomplished four things in 2015. First, we delivered strong double-digit constant-currency core earnings per share growth and very good free cash flow productivity, over 100% on modest organic top-line growth.

Second, we continued to make strong productivity gains across the board, income statement and balance sheet, with many more opportunities still in front of us. Third, we largely completed the reshaping of our portfolio in less than one year, refocusing on 10 categories and 65 brands that best leverage our core competencies with leading global positions and historically superior top- and bottom-line performance. This positions us over time for stronger top- and bottom-line growth.

Fourth, we continued to invest in our future and more dedicated selling resources and product innovation and brand building, and in transforming our supply chain. For the fiscal year organic sales grew 1%. Excluding the businesses we're in the process of exiting, organic sales grew 2%. All-in sales were down 5%, including the 6-point headwind from foreign exchange.

When we had to make choices between the top and bottom line, for example, to price for foreign currency rather than shift volume at a negative gross margin, or to continue unprofitable non-strategic product lines, we've deliberately placed emphasis on driving value creation and cash. Core operating margin was 19.3%, in line with the prior year despite a 130-basis point challenge from foreign exchange.

On a constant currency basis, core operating margin was up [130] basis points. Productivity savings contributed approximately 330 basis points to core operating margin expansion for the year.

Core gross margin, including foreign exchange, grew 30 basis points. On a constant-currency basis core gross margin was up 80 basis points.

We delivered this margin progress while making important investments in the business. As I mentioned earlier, we've increased investments in sales coverage. We're investing in innovation, in the upstream innovation, pipeline and behind recent launches, pods, beads, Pampers Pants, Gillette FlexBall and Venus Swirl, launches which both create and build markets.

We're investing in the supply chain, including the start-up of six new US mixing and distribution centers. We invested in a new business, with our market-expanding entry into the adult incontinence category.

Core earnings per share for the year were $4.02, down 2% versus the prior year. This includes a 13-point headwind from foreign exchange, over $1.5 billion after tax.

On a constant-currency basis core earnings per share grew at a double-digit 11% rate. On an all-in GAAP basis earnings per share were $2.44. This includes non-core restructuring costs, battery business impairment charges and the Venezuela charge.

We continue to be one of the strongest cash generators among competitive peers and comparable mega cap companies. We generated $11.6 billion in adjusted free cash flow with 102% adjusted free cash flow productivity, increasing our dividend for the 59th consecutive year and returning $11.9 billion in cash to shareholders: $7.3 billion in dividends and $4.6 billion in share repurchase, 105% of adjusted net earnings.

Over the past five years we've returned $60 billion to shareholders, $12 billion a year on average, and intend to pay dividends, retire and repurchase shares worth up to $70 billion over the next four years.

Two important drivers of our strong cash generation have been a reduction in payables for the broader implement of our supply chain financing program and our work to reduce inventory levels. Inventory days on hand are down five days on a constant-currency basis, seven days all in.

Moving from the fiscal year to the quarter, organic sales grew modestly, rounding down to a level that was equal to the prior year. Organic sales of our 10 core product categories grew 1%. The quarter was also heavily impacted by a full point from market dynamics in Russia. All-in sales were down 9%, including a 9-point headwind from foreign exchange.

Core gross margin and core operating margin both improved on both an all-in and ex-currency basis, driven by productivity savings. Core gross margin increased 110 basis points for the year. Excluding foreign exchange, core gross margin was up 130 basis points.

Cost savings of approximately 220 basis points, pricing benefits of 140 basis points, and 40 points for lower commodity costs more than offset 170 points of mix. Core SG&A cost as a percentage of sales increased 10 basis points, as 130 basis points of productivity savings were more than offset by reinvestments in dedicated sales coverage and in our innovation pipeline, by foreign exchange and other impacts.

Core operating margin was 18.1%, up 90 basis points versus the prior year. On a constant currency basis core operating margin was up 130 basis points. Productivity savings contributed 350 basis points to margin expansion for the quarter.

Non-operating income was $300 million above year ago levels, driven by gains from minor brand divestitures. The core effective tax rate was 19% for the quarter, 21% for the fiscal year, consistent with our outlook.

Core earnings per share were $1, up 8% versus the prior year. This includes a 14 percentage point foreign exchange headwind, roughly $370 million after tax. On a constant-currency basis core earnings per share grew 22%. Excluding the non-operating income gains versus last year, constant-currency core earnings per share was up 12% for the quarter.

On an all-in GAAP basis earnings per share were $0.18 for the quarter. This includes $0.07 of non-core restructuring costs, $0.04 of earnings loss from discontinued operations and the $0.71 per share Venezuela charge. We generated $2.9 billion in adjusted free cash flow, yielding 106% adjusted free cash flow productivity.

The strong constant-currency earnings growth and cash flow has been driven by our progress on productivity. As of July 1 we've reduced non-manufacturing overhead roles by 22%, more than double the original target set in February 2012, and a year earlier than planned. We're currently targeting a 25% to 30% cumulative reduction by the end of fiscal 2017. This excludes role reductions from divested businesses, which would increase this figure to over 35%.

We generated $1.5 billion of cost of goods savings in fiscal 2015, contributing 200 basis points of gross margin improvement. We improved manufacturing productivity by 5%, bringing cumulative pass-through year manufacturing enrollment reductions to 15%. This includes new staffing necessary to support capacity additions. On a same-site basis, manufacturing enrollment is down nearly 20% over the past three years, enabled by technology and our integrated work systems approach.

We're still in the early phases of our supply chain transformation. In fiscal 2015 we completed the construction and start-up of six new distribution and mixing centers, all on or ahead of schedule and under budget. We expect to complete the conversion out of our legacy locations later this calendar year.

We announced the construction of a new multi-category manufacturing facility in West Virginia and a major expansion to an existing manufacturing site in Utah. Several plant closures were also announced, all early steps in the re-siting and re-platforming of our North American manufacturing system.

We're taking similar steps in the European supply chain. We announced the consolidation of distribution centers in France and the UK, and consolidation of manufacturing for some home care products in our plant in Italy.

We continue to see a $1 billion to $2 billion value-creation opportunity for the global supply chain reinvention effort. We're targeting to build over time to annual savings of $400 million to $500 million and are expecting additional top-line benefits from customer service enhancements and reductions of out-of-stocks.

Marketing spending is another area where we are delivering more -- greater reach, higher frequency, more advertising -- for less overall cost. The savings are coming primarily from non-working marketing spend. One example are the fees and production costs for agencies we use for advertising, media, public relations, package design and development of in-store materials.

We're simplifying and reducing the number of agency relationships, while upgrading agency capability to improve creative quality and communication effectiveness, all at a lower cost. Our overall agency costs in fiscal 2015 were down about 15% versus the prior year.

In Brazil we consolidated agencies and delivered a 50% reduction in spending. In US hair care we reduced the number of shopper and consumer marketing agencies by a third and lowered total agency spending by 20%. In another beauty category we consolidated to a single global agency for digital marketing, reducing spending for these services by more than 75%.

In total, we reduced the number of agencies by nearly 40% and cut agency and production spending by about $300 million versus the prior year. Here too, there is more savings ahead of us, most of which will be reinvested in stronger advertising programs.

Moving from productivity to portfolio, as I mentioned at the onset, we've made excellent progress on plans to strengthen and focus our business and brand portfolio. On this call last year we said we were targeting to become a Company of about a dozen product categories comprised of 70 to 80 brands over a two-year period. At the CAGNY Conference in mid February we updated plans to focus on 10 product categories and about 65 brands.

With the beauty brands merger with Coty announced earlier this month, we have essentially completed the strategic portfolio reshaping. We've completed the decision-making, negotiation and contracting work on businesses that represent 95% of in-scope sales and essentially all of the in-scope profit.

At the close of the beauty brands merger a year or so from now, we will have focused our portfolio on 10 categories and 65 brands that best leverage our core competencies. We have leading global positions in these categories, with consumer-preferred products and leading brands in the largest markets. These businesses and brands have historically grown faster and have been more profitable than the balance.

As we're able to focus all of our energy on these leading businesses, which benefit from our core strengths, and as we invest productivity savings in profitable growth, we expect to improve both top- and bottom-line performance. With that, I'll turn it over to A.G.

A.G. LAFLEY, CHAIRMAN, CEO & PRESIDENT, THE PROCTER & GAMBLE COMPANY: Thank you, Jon, and good morning, everyone. This morning we're going to talk about the choices we've made, are making, and will continue to make, to drive growth and value creation as measured by operating total shareholder return.

Every choice we take, every move we make, is intended to accomplish one of three things: increase shopper and consumer preference for P&G brands and products; improve operational effectiveness and executional excellence; develop more balanced, reliable, sustainable growth and value creation.

We are rebalancing and refocusing this Company to reinvigorate it and accelerate growth and value creation. We have zero-based goals and strategies, the organization, more capabilities and the systems required to win.

At P&G we are successful when we win with shoppers and consumers, when we provide consumer-preferred brands and products that become leading value creators in their categories of business. The best most balanced and integrated measure of value creation is operating total shareholder return.

A foundation building block of OTSR is operating cash flow. Cash is the financial lifeblood of any company. Strong cash flow enables both reinvestment in the business and significant returns to shareowners.

The second building block is operating margin and profit. Our operating margins have begun to improve. They should continue to improve as we move into the 10 core category, 65 brand portfolio, and as we continue to deliver a steady stream of consumer-preferred product innovation and consistent productivity savings through the end of this decade.

The third and last building block is net sales growth. Our results here obviously have been mixed. But we are making steady progress in most of the core business units and we have detailed improvement and growth plans in place for the balance. Much of the sales growth is ahead of us.

We have a strong lineup of new and improved products that are coming to market over the next one, two and three fiscal years. We believe more of the resulting sales growth will be sustainable. And we are learning that big obvious consumer-meaningful product innovations can continue to grow sales profitably for three, five, seven and more years.

The strength of OTSR is its actionability. It helps us prioritize business strategy choices, translate those choices to business building blocks and action plans that can be executed on a category and brand, country and customer, or even manufacturing plant, sales rep or distributor basis. Operating TSR correlates with market TSR over time and aligns the interests of employees and shareowners.

The question for any company is not what businesses we are in, but what businesses should we be in for the foreseeable future. As Jon said, we chose 10 category-based business units where P&G has leading market positions, strong brands and consumer-meaningful product technologies from which we can grow and create value: baby, feminine and family care, fabric and home care, hair, skin, grooming, oral and personal healthcare.

These 10 categories have been growing 50 to 100 basis points faster than the total Company. Their operating margins are up to 100 basis points higher. Their sales and profits are highly concentrated in a few big countries around the world, which makes the current business easier to operate.

Yet every business unit, every category, still has significant value creation opportunity in both our home US market and other big developed markets, Germany, Japan, et al., and in growing developing markets, the BRIC countries, Mexico, Turkey, et al., markets where P&G has been continually improving its position.

These categories and brands will continue to play to P&G's core strengths, shopper and consumer understanding, brand building and product innovation, productivity and go-to-market execution and leveraging, where appropriate and where it makes sense, the scale and scope of the Company. As category leaders, we have the responsibility to create, occasionally transform and build these categories year in and year out.

About two-thirds of all sales growth comes from category growth and about half of that is driven by the manufacturer. That is us. The balance one-third comes from share growth and M&A.

I want to take a few minutes this morning to report where we stand in each of the 10 category business units. First, baby, feminine and family care. After a drop-off in performance, both baby and family care delivered solid double-digit OTSR results in fiscal year 2015. In feminine care, as you know, we have decided to invest in the Always Discreet entry into the incontinence category.

Family care is an excellent example of balanced disciplined application of OTSR. It's a big important North America business that got back on its proven business model and continued to improve structural economics, while growing sales and market share customers representing more than 90% in sales and profits, and focusing on the profitable premium-tier tissue business in Mexico while deemphasizing conventional lower-value tissue products.

With leading brands like Bounty and Charmin, consumer-preferred product innovation coming to market this summer and early next calendar, built on P&G's unique and proprietary technology, and an operating discipline that relentlessly drives out costs and keeps the consumer value equation competitive, we expect another solid performance in fiscal 2015.

Baby and fem care results have been more mixed. Very strong in North America where half of world-wide profit is made, mixed in Europe, weak in China. Pampers and Always brands are leaders in these categories with strong equities, household penetration that's growing and strong net promoter scores.

The focus in baby and fem is winning with consumer-preferred product innovation. These are categories where consumers notice and expect performance with every single product usage experience. We've invested significantly in R&D, new plants and equipment, and will be investing in product sampling and trial, marketing, selling and sourcing as we accelerate consumer-preferred better-performing products to market.

The next-generation of Pampers Pants and the premium diaper line are going to market in China and the US as we speak. Achieving the same share of the faster-growing pants segment, as we have on taped diapers, over the next few years could be worth as much as $2 billion to $3 billion in sales over time. Over the next one to two years there will be a steady drum beat of product upgrades across Pampers and Luvs in North America, Always and Always Discreet, every one of them consumer-preferred, several unique and proprietary.

We continue to be encouraged by the progress we're making on Always Discreet. Category growth has accelerated 50% to 100% to 10%-plus growth rates in the US, UK and France from a launch less than a year ago. Discreet's share has reached 7% to 9% in these markets.

Importantly, we are attracting new women to the category. Recall women are not satisfied with current product offerings that don't work very well. Discreet pads and pants deliver better fit and significantly better protection from an Always brand women trust.

Product ratings and reviews, product usage satisfaction and repeat rates are all strong. With still an ample awareness and trial opportunity ahead of us, we will continue to invest in marketing, sales and consumer-preferred product innovation in this new category.

Fabric and home care has been a tale of two cities from an operating TSR standpoint. Home care, Duracell and our $1 billion B2B professional products business have all delivered strong value creation for now several years in a row. We expect this to continue because each category continues to adapt proven business strategies and models and operates with discipline to deliver balanced growth and value creation across all three OTSR drivers.

In fiscal 2015 modest sales growth and strong profit growth and cash productivity resulted in another very solid year for home care. We carefully pick our spots in the home care category and segments. We have leading brands and consumer-preferred products. We continue to strengthen marketing and selling fundamentals while we improve productivity and structural economics.

Duracell, in a year of significant transformation as we stand up an independent company with Marmon and Berkshire Hathaway, delivered a fourth consecutive year of strong operating TSR and market share growth, while divesting the more commodity-like low-tier battery business in China.

P&G professional is very a focused jewel that delivered its sixth straight year of strong industry-leading OTSR results. PGP has a unique and proven business model that delivers superior service and value to its customers and delivers consistently for shareowners.

Fabric care has been more challenging, as we've talked, because it has involved a significant transformation of strategy and business model, capabilities and operations, and execution across a number of important markets starting with the US, the largest and most profitable market in the world, where we have had to get the category growing again and rekindle household penetration and share growth. We've gotten the strategy back in balance, sharpened our business model, and have been operating with consistency and excellence.

We exited unattractive segments like bleach, unprofitable laundry additives, cheap low tier powders. We invested significantly in consumer-preferred products. We've constructed new manufacturing in the last two years to enable the expansion of premium products like pods and beads and concentrated heavy-duty liquids, not only for the US, Europe, and Japan, but also for big developing markets like China and Brazil.

We've stimulated category growth in the adjacent fabric conditioner category, the fastest-growing household products category over the last two years, as reported by Kantar. And we have grown share behind the Downy and Lenor brand equities and innovative new products. With leading brands, Tide and Gain and Ariel, Downy and Lenor, consumer-preferred products and much more robust structural economics, we're looking forward to more balanced and more consistent growth and value creation in fabric care starting this year.

These segments help grooming and beauty. These segments, again as we have talked, are a tale of three cities. Oral care delivered another strong year of OTSR behind 4% organic sales and 10% profit growth, with strong cash productivity. Oral care has evolved successfully to a well-differentiated business strategy and has been steadily improving structural economics.

We've clearly defined the strategic roles for Crest and Oral-B. We've expanded Oral-B toothpaste into over 40 countries and continue to grow this business by over 20% in its sixth year since launch. We've created two strong premium-priced properties in Pro-Health and 3D White, each now above $1 billion in sales. We just launched Crest Pro-Health HD in the US, a unique and proprietary super-premium two-step toothpaste system that is off to a very strong start.

We have another strong $1 billion business in Oral-B power brush, which grew double digits in fiscal 2015 and actually doubled off a relatively small base in China. There is still a lot of upside in the power brush segment, as household penetration is very low. We're developing a business model that drives consumer trial and accelerates Oral-B growth.

Personal health care has evolved to a very focused niche player in OTC. It turned in another very solid year of operating TSR behind 4% organic sales and 5% profit growth, and again, strong cash productivity.

Vicks, our $1 billion OTC brand, grew sales double digits and profit a strong double digits, behind its premium-priced cough/cold product line, Severe. The Meta Wellness initiative grew sales 15% and significant market share; and our new VMS brands, New Chapter and Swisse, are both off to a good start in lead markets.

The grooming business, as you know, is undergoing significant change, the biggest of which may be consumer habits and practices. This is no longer just a facial shave care business, it's becoming a broader grooming business, face and body. But still the vast majority of sales and profits are in shaving.

Grooming had a challenging year due to unprecedented FX impacts, significant trade inventory destocking, especially in economically challenged countries like Brazil and Russia, changes in grooming fashions and habits and the continuing growth of online competitors in some markets like the US.

Despite the challenges, Gillette eked out modest sales and share growth and began to stimulate more category growth behind the Gillette FlexBall and Venus Swirl consumer-preferred product innovations. Both are off to a strong start and continue to roll out around the world. In the first year in North America alone, 15 million men have tried a FlexBall razor. Gillette's online Shave Club is off to a very good start. We're building partnerships with e-tailers and retailers who are offering their shoppers subscription tie-ins to the Gillette Shave Club.

Importantly, we are helping retail customers move out of lock boxes on shelves and at checkout and into much more shopper-friendly cost and shrink effective hard tags. This innovative in-store solution is better for shoppers and for retailers. And in the first several hundred stores, it's significantly improving in-stock and sales off-take. We'll be rolling out hard tags as fast as we can in the year ahead with our retail partners.

Finally, we continue to re-platform manufacturing to significantly improve productivity and accelerate the expansion of new product innovation. We've already announced and will begin shipping the next major new cartridge innovation on Gillette for men in January 2016.

Turning to hair care. We've repositioned hair care for growth.

As you know we are exiting the salon service and retail colorants businesses. We've sold off small non-strategic brands like Fekkai and Wash & Go. We've invested significantly in product innovation and technology, brand building and sales. And we have, importantly in a big way, strengthened the structural costs and cash productivity of this business.

Hair care had a challenging year but progress is being made. Head & Shoulders grew global organic sales mid single-digits for the 20th year in a row, and continued to build profit and cash, value creation. Pantene modestly grew sales worldwide but importantly delivered 4% sales and modest market share growth in the US for the first time in several years. Pantene's 3-Minute Miracle conditioner product initiative is being expanded right now.

More importantly, once in a decade, new shampoo and conditioner product innovations built on unique and proprietary technologies will begin to go to market this summer, and continue to expand around the world over the next two years on Pantene, Head & Shoulders, and as appropriate, on the local and regional brands in the portfolio, like Herbal, Vidal, et al.

P&G's remaining hair care portfolio consists of brands with real consumer equity. These brands will not only benefit from better-performing products, but also from more focus, better packaging, marketing and sales execution. As sales continue to pick up, the OTSR leverage will be significant with operating margins now 50% higher than leading competitors and superior structural economics continuing to improve.

Skin care and personal care, as you know, have been mixed bag. SK-II, our $1 billion super-premium skin care brand, grew organic sales mid single-digits and profits very strong double-digits by executing its proven trial-building business model. Despite strong sales growth and very attractive margins, the SK-II team continues to sweeten the mix and improve the structural economics of this very unique business.

The deodorants business, behind Old Spice and Secret, continues to grow steadily, organic sales high single-digits and profit high single-digits leading the solid OTSR. In personal cleansing we sold off Camay and Zest and narrowed our brand product line focus to Olay and Safeguard and to a handful of key countries.

Across the above segments, we continue to improve structural economics and cash productivity. Operating margins are improving and free cash flow remains strong, above 100%. This is important because these three businesses are where the lion's share of profit and cash are made.

On Olay we are committed to return to sales growth and to continued value creation growth in North America in fiscal 2016. We're back on our masstige strategy. We've narrowed our boutique and product line focus to Regenerist and Total Effects and new products consumers like, like Luminous, which has attracted new consumers and has been growing sales and market share.

Right now we're transforming the shopping experience with more streamlined assortments and easier-to-shop shelf presentations. With our test retailers, category and Olay sales have both increased. The qualified new Olay brand campaign will break in the fall behind increased effective support across all relevant media.

We're making progress in every one of our 10 core categories businesses, albeit at different paces and never as much as we want. Each business is different, with different opportunities and challenges, but better to find and proactively addressed.

P&G performs best when we stay in balance: balanced across industries and categories, balanced across developed and developing markets, balanced in our need to deliver the near term with our need to invest and deliver the mid and long term. OTSR is clearly helping with a focus on balanced growth and value creation.

Just as with the Company, getting the business unit portfolio right matters. Many of our categories found themselves over-expanded or over-extended and have had to divest or otherwise dispose of non-strategic and under-performing businesses.

With the recent divestitures, as Jon said, representing about 5% of profits, 15% of sales, and as much as a reduction of 40% to 50% in complexity, P&G and its 10 core categories are becoming much simpler businesses, easier to operate, easier to grow, easier to create value creation from. We're picking up the pace, not only of portfolio streamlining but also of core business turnaround. We've invested significantly in R&D, plant and equipment, branding and marketing, sales and sourcing.

All of this has been enabled by productivity that will continue strong through the end of this decade. Going forward, productivity efforts will be more focused on specific business units, countries, functions, and on the major marketing and trade spending pools Jon talked about earlier.

Despite our sense of urgency and substantial investment, the breadth, scope and scale of the transformation underway will continue to see cash productivity, operating profit and sales growth unfold over time. But the progress will be steady year by year, delivering balanced reliable sustainable growth and value creation, as measured by OTSR.

When you're building brands and businesses to last for decades, growth does not happen straight line, even the strongest of brands hit flat spots. But when we get back to basics, to fundamentals, putting the consumer front and center, delivering consumer-preferred brands and products, executing with excellence, we put ourselves in position to win.

Year after year, decade after decade successful brand building and product innovation transformed and grown categories and created value for consumers, for P&G and its shareowners. The key going forward will be the robustness of our category business strategies and models, the strength of our brand and product differentiation and innovation, and ultimately the quality, reliability and value of the performance and experience we deliver to consumers every day.

Now I'll turn it back to Jon to provide details of our outlook for this fiscal year.

JON MOELLER: Thanks, A.G. First, a few more housekeeping items.

The guidance we're providing this morning assumes the transitioning beauty businesses are accounted for as discontinued operations, and are not therefore included in core EPS for either 2015 or 2016 fiscal years. This is the same approach we've taken with Duracell.

While the amounts are not yet final, we expect fiscal 2015 core earnings per share to be restated from the $4.02 level to approximately $3.77 per share. The informational 8-K we plan to issue in September will provide more detail, including fiscal 2015 quarterly income statements and segment results. Towards the end of the calendar year we'll provide a fully restated 10-K for 2015.

While we'll no longer include the results from our Venezuelan operations in our consolidated results, the fiscal 2015 results will remain in our base period sales and earnings. This will create a minor drag on organic sales growth trends and a $0.05 to $0.06 per share headwind on core earnings per share growth.

Next some context for fiscal 2016. We have large positions, leading positions, in several big markets where underlying growth has slowed, most notably China and Brazil. Foreign exchange will continue to be a significant sales and earnings headwind, particularly in the first two quarters.

To offset the foreign exchange impacts and restore structural economics, we've taken significant price increases in some markets. We need to manage through the market contraction and volatility that naturally follow.

We have disproportionately large positions in the markets most affected by FX. We're market leaders in Russia, the Ukraine and Japan and in Venezuela. In contrast, many of our internationally domiciled competitors are benefiting from their weaker currencies, providing fuel for reinvestment. We need to be cognizant of this as we construct our own plans and as we contemplate guidance.

We're not yet able to focus 100% on driving the 10 core categories we've been talking about. While the portfolio planning work is complete, we still own and are operating the transitioning brands, including Duracell and the beauty brands.

Some smart choices will also create top-line pressure. We've mentioned previously we're simplifying and strengthening the product form and SKU lineups for our core categories. As we de-prioritize or exit product forms, for example the more commodity section of the laundry business, laundry bars, as an example, there has been and will be some pressure on organic sales growth.

On the bottom line I've mentioned FX. There will also be a drag in non-operating income as we annualize the small brand divestiture gains and we will see a higher core tax rate. We'll continue to invest in increased sales coverage and in fast-growing retail channels and formats.

We will increase our investment in innovation pipeline and in the examples of recent innovations, like Always Discreet, Fusion FlexBall, Venus Swirl and the new diaper innovations that A.G. mentioned that are coming to market now and in the next six months. We'll continue to invest in the supply chain adding new capacity closer to consumers as our business grows and optimizing the supply chain in developed markets.

Against this volatile backdrop, we think it's prudent to start fiscal 2016 from a guidance standpoint with relatively modest, relatively wide target ranges. We're projecting organic sales growth in line to up low single-digits versus fiscal 2015. We've recently delivered towards the low end of this range. We certainly aim to improve, but it's unlikely that growth acceleration will happen immediately or in a straight line.

And as I mentioned, there are market and competitive dynamics as well as internal choices that will continue to put some pressure on the top line. The headwind from foreign exchange will have a 4 to 5 percentage point impact on all-in sales growth. Also minor brand divestitures will have a modest drag on all-in sales growth. Taken together, we expect all-in sales growth to be down low to mid single-digits versus restated fiscal 2015 results.

We expect to deliver a solid operating margin expansion, driven by another year of strong productivity-driven savings in cost of goods sold, overhead and nonworking marketing and agency costs. Cost of goods sold productivity savings are forecast to be consistent with our annual run rate projection of about $1.2 billion. Commodities will also provide a modest benefit.

These gross margin enhancers will be partially offset by foreign exchange. Based on last week's rates, FX will be a $350 million to $450 million after-tax headwind on fiscal 2016 earnings, or a 3 to 4 percentage point drag.

This impact has two primary components. The spot rate impact of fiscal 2016 is expected to be a 7 to 8 percentage point headwind on core earnings per share growth. The spot rate impact should be partially offset by about 4 points of balance sheet revaluation hurt in fiscal 2015 that, if current rates hold, will not recur in fiscal 2016.

SG&A costs will also be a contributor to operating profit growth, driven by continued overhead and marketing productivity savings and lower year-on-year charges for balance sheet revaluation. With this strong operating margin expansion, we expect to deliver core operating income growth of mid to high single-digits. This includes the $0.05 to $0.06 per share drag on operating earnings from the Venezuela accounting change and $0.02 to $0.03 per share of beauty deal transition costs that will remain in our core earnings results. So strong underlying operating earnings progress, which excluding the $0.08 impact from these items, should be up high singles to low double-digits.

Moving below the operating line there are several items you should take into account as you construct your models. We're forecasting non-operating income to be a 2 to 3 percentage point drag on core EPS growth. We had a large number of minor brand divestitures last year and the scope and pace of these deals will decrease this year.

We're estimating a core effective tax rate of about 24% for fiscal 2016, about 3 points higher than the fiscal 2015 rate, due mainly to lower benefits from audit resolutions. Combined non-operating income and tax be a $0.23 to $0.26 per share core earnings per share headwind in FY16, a 6% to 7% impact on core EPS growth.

Finally, we will retire shares at a value of approximately $8 billion to $9 billion through a combination of direct repurchase and shares that will be exchanged in the Duracell transaction. We're now expecting the Duracell transaction to close in the first quarter of calendar 2016. This is a little later than our original projections, as both parties continue to prioritize flawless execution over speed.

We're starting fiscal 2016 with core earnings per share growth guidance of slightly below to up mid single-digits versus last fiscal year's restated earnings per share of $3.77. Again, a wide and relatively modest range. All-in GAAP earnings per share should be up 53% to 63% versus the prior fiscal year GAAP earnings per share of $2.44.

Non-core items in the current year will include non-core restructuring charges of approximately $0.15 per share and net earnings from discontinued operations of about $0.17 per share, which includes the after-tax profit from operations and transaction exit costs of the beauty and battery businesses. This compares to total non-core costs of approximately $1.33 per share in fiscal 2015.

We expect another strong year of free cash flow productivity, 90% to 100%. Drivers of this strong cash productivity will include continued improvement of payables, including continued progress on our supply chain financing program and continued steady improvement in inventory levels. These improvements should offset an increase in capital spending as we invest in the supply chain transformation A.G. and I discussed earlier. We expect CapEx be between 5% and 6% of sales for the fiscal year.

We'll continue to build on our strong track record of cash and overall value return to shareholders, in addition to the $8 billion to $9 billion of shares we expect to retire. We expect dividend payments of more than $7 billion, in total, $15 billion to $16 billion in dividend payments, share exchanges and share repurchase.

To briefly recap the key assumptions underpinning our fiscal 2016 outlook, this guidance assumes mid-July foreign exchange rates and commodity prices. Further significant currency weakness is not anticipated within our guidance.

Like 2015 then, we're setting up fiscal 2016 as a year, given all of the market and FX volatility and pricing, of modest top-line growth, solid core operating income growth, relatively robust constant-currency core earnings per share growth, and strong 90% to 100% free cash flow productivity. We'll continue to tighten and implement our strategy on the core business, investing where appropriate to build capabilities for long-term success.

We'll continue to drive meaningful productivity opportunities. We'll invest in sales coverage, innovation and the supply chain and we'll substantially complete the execution of our portfolio redesign.

That concludes our prepared remarks for this morning. As a reminder, business segment information is provided in our press release and will be available in the slides, which will be posted on our website, www.pg.com, following the call.

Now A.G. I will be happy to take questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions) John Faucher, JPMorgan.

JOHN FAUCHER, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Thanks, good morning.

You guys have delivered a lot on the structural stuff -- brand disposals, et cetera. And you're delivering on the productivity, as evidenced by the gross margin performance. But unlike many of the other companies we all cover, the underlying business appears to be getting worse and maybe at an accelerating rate.

I think this could argue for two things: one, that the organization can't handle this much change at one time and you need to slow down; or, conversely, there needs to be a lot more and bigger change, structural, leadership, et cetera. You guys are obviously going with option three right now, which is to stay the course with the initial plan. Why should we all feel comfortable that's the right course, given the results, and a little bit to some extent, the guidance? Thanks.

JON MOELLER: I would say, John, that we're in the middle of executing that plan, course three as you've outlined. And are to a place where we have the full benefit of, for instance, being able to focus on the 10 product categories, which we will as we get through the beauty transition.

We're also in the middle of dealing with some very significant market-level events, which are outside the strategy completely. We're the market leader in a lot of the countries that are difficult right now. Russia is an example. And, as I mentioned, we have made a very deliberate choice.

The choice we had in Russia was very simple. We could accept negative gross margins in perpetuity, or we could price to restore structural economics so that future growth would be worth something. And that's the choice we've taken there as in other markets, and it's had a significant impact, as we expected. So if you look at the month of June, for example, our sales in Russia were down 57%.

We've got work our way through these things. But we're taking an approach that we're convinced is the right approach for the long term.

As A.G. mentioned, as well, the innovation pipeline, which we've been investing to accelerate -- that acceleration is going to start hitting the marketplace as we go through the next year, which will help as well. And then, hopefully at some point, we get to a place where FX isn't as much of an issue on either the top or bottom line, and we continue to deliver productivity savings, which allow us to reinvest behind this innovation and grow faster.

We clearly recognize the need to grow faster. We think we're making the choices that will allow that to happen in a sustainable way over the long term. We're not going to get there in the next quarter or two. But we do expect sequential progress as we move through next fiscal year.

A.G. LAFLEY: John, I'd just add two quick ones.

On your first direct question, I actually think the employees, management and leadership has really stepped up. I won't bore you with all the details of what it takes to operate in Russia, Ukraine, Argentina, Venezuela, even Japan, and a whole host of other developing markets. But in virtually every case, we are making the right decisions, and, frankly, building our value creation. We've switched countries like India from a significant negative profit position to making basically $100 million in two years. Our Brazil economics are the best they've ever been -- still not where we want them to be, but the best we've ever been.

I think the organization has run the operational play and executed pretty consistently and pretty well. We have, at the same time, dramatically stepped up the productivity program. And it isn't separate; it's integrated. That's the part that everybody misses. It's a totally integrated productivity program. And that will run easily through the end of the decade.

Third, we have dramatically invested in R&D, sales -- all the things we need to get back on our strategy and our game.

The second thing I would say is -- and this is hard for you to see, but I'll pick a couple of examples.

Take baby. Round numbers, about half the value creation in the world is in the US and North America. Three years ago the category wasn't growing. In two to three years we've put ourselves in a position where we are growing share and leading in share growth. And we haven't even brought all of our premium tape line or our pants to market -- and as I said, they are coming in the next couple of years.

Take fabric -- well, let me stick with baby. In Europe we continued to do well on a value-creation standpoint. The game has changed; it's us and private label, we're adjusting to that game. In China we have been very straight up. We still have the leading brand; we're stuck in the middle of the market. We went down, the consumer went up. Both the pants and the premium tape lines are shipping as we speak.

I could go through category by category, but fabric's the same story. We've generated $1.4 billion in pods. We are actively adding pods capacity and expanding around the world. $330 million in beads. We've stimulated fabric conditioner growth 7%. But on the bottom end, as Jon described, we've been getting out of cheap commodity-like bagged powders. We've been getting out of laundry bars, we've been getting out of unprofitable additives. We've gotten out of bleach. So that's what you have to look at.

And the third point I would make is, the last thing I want to do is chase volume and share that has no value or very little value. I do not want to get ahead of ourselves and slam on the accelerator and try to grow faster on the volume or share side. We've been to that movie before.

We're picking our spots; we're doing first things first. We're doing it with product that consumers really prefer.

And here's the other thing that's really important. Most of the moves we're making are stimulating category and market growth, and then it becomes a win for your customer, your supplier and your partner, not just for the consumer and the Company. I happen to believe the obsessive focus on value creation is incredibly important. And we'll get the growth when and where we can, and frankly, when and where consumers choose our brands and products. And we believe it's coming. We all wish it would come faster, but it doesn't make a whole lot of sense to try to do it faster.

Your last question implied was, should we do something more dramatic. We think the portfolio that we are moving into actually has the potential to create a lot of value. In most of those businesses we created significant value in the past or are beginning to create significant value again; and we wouldn't be playing there unless we thought we could do it.

We've looked at all the alternatives many times, and this is the best alternative for us. It's the best alternative for shareowners because it creates the most potential value.

OPERATOR: Olivia Tong, Bank of America.

OLIVIA TONG, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Good morning, thanks.

As you look back at this year and the sales shortfall, can you talk through some of the key drivers? Was it more a lack of innovation? Or just innovation that missed their target? Or were the products not priced properly, or was competition just better?

And then, what are your categories growing at now? And how do think about market share growth for next year?

And then, secondly, can we talk through price mix in developed markets and where you think that will go next year? Particularly as I think about your longer-term thoughts on pricing in North America if we look at baby and family care. Kimberly has been pushing price in tissue and diapers. So maybe if you could address those two things. Thanks a bunch.

A.G. LAFLEY: Where to start. I'll take a shot at the last one.

Yes, competition has been pushing pricing in the two examples that you mentioned. We continue to grow our share and our value creation in baby in the US. And, as I hope I've pointed out clearly enough, in tissue/towel we've very smartly picked our spots and we're very comfortable with holding sales as long as we create more value. We still have leading brand positions in the principal categories. And the fact of the matter is, we're getting more than our fair share of value creation there and that's the way we want to keep it.

On the first part of your question, Olivia, it's really none of the above. It's really none of the above. I will just mention two examples, because they are significant, because the competitor thing is often mentioned.

We had major competitive moves in big stronghold markets for us in fabric care in the last year. One competitor moved into the Arabian Peninsula, where we've had a long and strong position with consumers. The other, as you know, moved into the US at the largest retailer. In both cases, our share is at or above the level that it was before the encroachment, before their introduction. And in both cases we continue to create strong value. It is more an issue of timing of the moves that we'll be making category by category, and the roll-off of the non-performing or under-performing parts of the business.

JON MOELLER: And I would say our guidance was low to mid singles. We delivered low singles. The difference between the high and the low end of the range, I think can largely be attributed to the macro dynamic and FX, which you can sometimes characterize as impacting everybody. That wasn't the case this year, as many of our competitors benefited significantly from FX while it was a huge headwind for ourselves.

That is a differentiator between firms in our industry. And that is part of the reason that we're at the low end of the range.

OPERATOR: Steve Powers, UBS.

STEVE POWERS, ANALYST, UBS: Good morning, guys, thanks.

A.G., it feels like with the Cody transaction and David's announcement this week as CEO, you really declared the recent phase of reshaping as in some ways done. Now it's time to move forward.

But I guess my question is, building on your prepared remarks, what are you going to do differently as you move forward? Because while much of what you've outlined sounds reasonable and logical and makes sense, it also seems, to John Faucher's point, like a continuation of what you've been doing and saying the last few years and we haven't seen that return, at least as measured on the top line. What I'm looking for is less about what you're going to continue doing and more about where and how you and David are going to invest differently in the coming years.

And I don't want to make this just about beauty, but as an example, what deficiencies are you trying to overcome when it comes to a brand like Olay and what is that going to cost?

A.G. LAFLEY: Okay. Unfortunately, this isn't a continuation of what we were doing, and I don't want to belabor that. But we were clearly over-expanded into developing markets and even into frontier developing markets. And you know what's happened there in terms of growth slow-down, economic and political volatility, and the FX issue, which Jon has mentioned a couple of times, is real, and will continue through the end of this calendar year. But it is a change. The second thing is, we were clearly over-extended in several categories. The most obvious one was beauty, where we got into service businesses and more fashion- and trend-oriented businesses that didn't turn out to be a good fit for us.

I would argue we have changed quite a bit in the last two years. And the big change has been a dramatic narrowing of the focus and choices. And the other big change has been getting back to balanced innovation and productivity that really drives value creation. We were not on a value-creation building strategy; we were on a short-term volume and share-building strategy. That doesn't work unless you are creating value.

The other thing I would say is, like it or not -- and I don't like it very much either -- it takes time to change direction. Our plans, as I've said before, are sold out 6 to 12 months with our customers. As you might imagine, when you have got plant and equipment and major investment involved, it takes time to set up behind major initiatives. All of that has had to be done, and much of it is underway.

And the last two points I will make is, it's more than words that we do well when we focus on following the shopper and consumer. Not the competitor; shopper and the consumer. We do well when we grow categories and markets. Pods and beads and concentrated HDLs grow the fabric care market. FlexBall and Swirl grow the shave care and grooming market. Shave care and grooming market was in the doldrums, not growing very fast. It's actually growing the last six months the fastest it's grown in several years. I could go on there. But those are the differences.

And I'm not a big fan of change for change sake; I'm a big fan of running plays that work. And I think one of the big questions behind the question is, how fast can we do this? And my view -- very strong view -- is I'm much more interested in getting it right and making changes that really sustain value creation and making changes that lead to sustainable and reliable growth. That's the path we're on.

And by the way, in the meantime, the reason we focus so hard on operating cash flow and free cash flow, so hard on our operating margins, is so could continue to return dividends and share repurchase to shareowners while we are getting this Company positioned to grow on a more sustainable basis.

OPERATOR: Lauren Lieberman, Barclays.

LAUREN LIEBERMAN, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Thanks, good morning.

A couple times you've mentioned significant reinvestments in sales force. I was hoping you could talk a little bit about what's been done so far, what needed addressing -- is it particular channels? Is it particular geographies? And then also how that fits into a chicken-and-egg conversation about having innovation in market and things you really want to get behind, versus what sounds like maybe, with the exception clearly of things like FlexBall and pods, but some kind of biding time new product work with the real exciting stuff to come in the next year-plus. Thanks.

A.G. LAFLEY: Lauren, I guess the answer is yes to your series of questions. Let me try to describe it as clearly and crisply as I can. When you choose to follow the shopper, you obviously have to commit coverage and resources to growing channels, and we have done that. We're in a much better position, for example in e-commerce, than we were three years ago. E-commerce is growing 30% to 40%. We're pretty competitive; there's still upside opportunities. And there is more to come with subscription and auto-replenishment. So, yes, follow the shopper into the channels that are growing. E-commerce is one, drug is obviously another one, small box discounters -- I could go on. That varies by region, by country, and we have made and are making that shift.

The second one is dedicated to category and to retail account sales support. I think we have talked before that we've added a significant number of dedicated sales resources. We started in the US; we're doing it category to customer. We're doing it in China, where it's essentially category to channel or customer. And as we continue to gain experience and as we continue to see the results, we are prepared to make those investments.

That leads to a third and incredibly important point. This is a highly executional category. A big part of how we do day in and day out is whether our distribution's right and whether our shelf's right. We didn't talk much about this today; we touched on it in the Olay context, so I'll return to Olay. We've now run a series of tests in countries -- more than one country around the world; several countries around the world -- and we're rolling out in the US first and then in China, a dramatically simplified category-based and Olay-based shelf set. Without going into all the details, it fairly significantly reduces the SKUs. It focuses on the products and boutiques that consumers want. And in every case so far, knock on wood, we have lifted category sales with our retail partner, which they want, and Olay has benefited by lifting its sales rate and share.

So we will see. But that kind of stuff is like incredibly important. And yes, it's blocking and tackling, but we got to get back to the blocking and tackling that works. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Bill Schmitz, Deutsche Bank.

BILL SCHMITZ, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: First of all, congratulations, A.G., on retirement the second time around.

My real question -- were you guys tempted at all to more dramatically re-base earnings? It sounds like some of the investments are being deferred for because of some the macro environment. But it's hard to manage a business based on currency, because it's out of your control. So I was wondering if you had more resources in the P&L? Could you do both, like drive the productivity and the cash flow and also reinvest and stop the share declines? Because it seems like on my math, the categories globally grew 3% and you guys were flat. So that's quite a bit of share loss this quarter. I would love to hear your thoughts on that topic. Thanks.

JON MOELLER: A couple things, Bill.

One is, we did not, in the year that we just completed, curtail investment to offset FX. You'll recall actually that when the more significant FX impacts occurred, we took our guidance down, specifically to protect the investments that we needed to make in the future. I think our guidance ranges that we provided for next year -- in fact, I know they accommodate fully the investments that we are planning to make going forward. I think there is further opportunity to drive productivity, which will provide another opportunity to reinvest -- productivity beyond even what's in our current plan. I do not see these as contradictory in any way.

A.G. LAFLEY: Bill, we did not pass on a single growth- and value-creating investment that was brought to us. You just have to look at our CapEx. We're putting hundreds of millions, billions, into new plants. We're putting up a new concentrated HDL plant in China that opens this summer. We're putting up a new plant in Brazil. We're putting up a new plant in sub-Sahara Africa. We have been racing to add pods capacity. We're racing to put new Infinity and Radiance capacity in because of demand for our fem care lines. Across baby diapers -- hundreds of millions to convert to pants and premium taped as fast as we can.

Again, I'm not going to go into the details, but in our plans in the year going forward we have 10%, 20% and more increases in media budget. It's hard for you to see our investments in communication and media because most of it is being funded by reallocation. We're simply shutting down the unproductive non-working dollars and we're converting it to working. And we're getting a heck of a lot more out of our digital mobile search and social programs, depending on market, depending on category, depending on brand.

But we've invested in sales. Every year we invest in R&D. And the good news is -- knock on wood -- for the most part, and R&D is a risky business, product innovation is always a risky business, but so far the teams have been delivering very high rates of products that are delivering high levels of consumer satisfaction, and as I said earlier, with a fair amount of uniqueness and differentiation. The issue is, it takes some time to get them to commercialization and then get them expanding. But we haven't slowed anything down. If anything, we've accelerated a bunch of these programs by 3, 6, in some way as much as 12 to 18 months.

OPERATOR: Dara Mohsenian, Morgan Stanley.

DARA MOHSENIAN, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Hey, good morning.

First, a detail question: Jon, given David's start date is not until November as CEO, is this FY16 earnings guidance blessed by him? Or might he choose to take a different view around the level of reinvestment needed behind the business and therefore earnings guidance? The real question is -- sorry to belabor, Jon, this question earlier -- but while it was helpful to hear that you are making more progress perhaps than is evident in the results, it's been a few years now of disappointing results. I would love to hear what is Plan B if you don't see the improvement in the business you expect going forward as you look out to FY17, and the historical changes aren't enough to get you to the TSR levels you desire.

Maybe you can discuss some of the options at your disposal, whether it's the earnings rebates that Bill mentioned to reinvest back behind the businesses split up, et cetera. Why those options don't make sense, and how confident you are that the historical changes will actually drive improved results going forward. Thanks.

JON MOELLER: First of all, the strategy that underlies the guidance, the strategy and the plan, are a Company strategy and plan. That is all the way through the Board. It's their strategy and plan. It's through the senior management team, which David has been an integral member of. And it's part of what the organization -- every person in the organization's work plan is based off. So it's not an individual strategy or plan, it's a Company strategy or plan.

Having said that, I expect David will do what he's always done, and we'll do what we always do, which is wake up every morning and put our bare feet on the cold hard floor and optimize what is in front of us. And we live in a volatile world, and we need to be responding to that on a daily basis. We're not going to get locked or trapped in a very narrow element of our plan. We'll modify that as we need to. I'm sure David will approach it that way.

A.G. LAFLEY: I think, Dara, I'd say the second half of your question -- it's again a very simple answer. We will change. If it's not working, we will change. Portfolio -- we think it's 90/10, 95/5 -- they're never done. We will make acquisitions in the year or two ahead. We will probably have another divestiture or two in the year ahead. But we will change. If the baby program doesn't work, we'll modify the baby program. If the fabric care program doesn't work, we'll modify the fabric care program. If we can't compete in a business after 20 years, after 5 years, after 10 years, we'll get out of the business. I think that's very straightforward.

JON MOELLER: I think the last year is full testament to that. You're right, the results aren't -- we're not there yet. But moving out 60% of the brands in one year -- that's not an indication of a company that is unwilling to embrace necessary change.

OPERATOR: Chris Ferrara, Wells Fargo.

CHRIS FERRARA, ANALYST, WELLS FARGO SECURITIES, LLC: Thanks, guys. A couple of housekeeping and then a real one.

First, Mexico and Japan -- both of those, Japan because of the consumption tax timing and Mexico because of the backing out of promos -- can you talk about how those have progressed and how they might have affected top line? On the tax rate, going back up to 24% for next year -- should we view that as the beginning of a more normalized tax rate for you guys? How do you think about it longer term?

And then lastly, on the Coty deal, on the timing mismatch between the lost earnings from moving the business to disc ops, and the share retirement, it gives us a year in between. As your shareholders, how should we think about this deal truly being not dilutive? Your ability to offset that. In other words, for that really to be true of FY17 again, understanding this is a long way out, FY17 needs to be a way above algorithm year because the share count's going to be so low. I know you're not guide out there, but conceptually, would that be the plan? Is that what people should think about? If the share count moves that much lower, therefore 2017 will be a big bounce-back year from an earnings standpoint, all else equal. Thanks, guys.

JON MOELLER: I'm going to take those in reverse order, Chris.

On the Coty transaction and the impacts, there's obviously some accounting changes that move things between continued operations and discontinued operations. But until the day that deal closes, all of the cash that those businesses generate goes into our bank account. So in terms of real economic impact, next year all the cash is ours. And then in the following year, which is what we committed to when we had the call a couple weeks ago, we said post-close there would be no dilution going forward, and that is still our plan. So that is Coty.

The tax rate at 24% -- I think certainly the rate that we've been at is lower than what we're going to have going forward, because as we've been successfully concluding audits, releasing reserves, and those are down to low balances. So the, I would call it, 23% to 25% as being a normalized rate going forward.

On Mexico and Japan, we saw sequential improvement in Mexico, and are really getting to a point where that will be behind us. But in the quarter that had a 20-basis point impact in terms of top-line growth. And then, Japan, obviously, went the other way, and was a help to the quarter versus the year-ago softness.

OPERATOR: Javier Escalante, Consumer Edge Research.

JAVIER ESCALANTE, ANALYST, CONSUMER EDGE RESEARCH: Good morning, everyone.

We all are gyrating again around the same point, which is what it seems to be a lack of balance between top-line growth and delivering very strong EPS growth. However, you already called because it's all currency-neutral growth. I wonder whether you have explained to us what you are doing with pruning the portfolio and how that impacts top-line growth. Because you have mentioned here things that are not divested that you have been shutting down and cutting that may be optically worsening the fundamental of the business. Thank you.

JON MOELLER: A couple things here.

One, I think it's important to understand the order and the sequence in which we are trying to turn this ship around. Growing before we have the right structural economics -- it doesn't create any value. So we're trying very hard through the productivity program, through the work we're doing in FX-impacted markets, to ensure that we have the right basis to grow from. That doesn't mean we' re not seizing opportunities that exist, but we're being choiceful and we're sequencing. And then when that growth comes, it's going to be worth something.

A.G. LAFLEY: On the second half of your question, Javier, the answer is yes. We tried to give you two or three examples, the family care or tissue/towel example. We were quite okay with a 100 index on net sales because we made, in our view, a smart decision to get out of, over time, which is as fast as we can, unprofitable conventional paper businesses in Mexico, and to replace that with lower sales that much more structurally attractive exports of our best products from the US into Mexico, which will be purchased by certain consumers and by certain customers. And we talked about being choiceful about which initiatives we took in which sequence. And we're not going to move until we think we have a very good chance of winning with consumers and shoppers and until we have the economics right.

We mentioned the laundry example because that is a big one. And while we have been charging forward on pods, concentrated heavy-duty liquids, machine wash powders -- all trade up, all preferred products by consumers, all growing in most developing markets, not just developed markets -- we have been pruning tier 4 and some tier 3 bagged commodity-like powders. We've been pruning laundry bars, as Jon said. We have gotten out of commodity bleach. We have dramatically pruned our additives portfolio and just kept the ones that we thought were strategic and profitable.

So yes, that is going on. And the point we were trying to make is, while Jon and I and many others have been working on the Company portfolio, the business unit leadership has been working on their portfolio. Some of it has been sold off -- hair care was an example. Some of it has been shut down or otherwise resolved. And that just keeps getting better.

JON MOELLER: I just want to make sure one last point on this. I want to make sure we are being understood. We know the top line has to grow.

I have shown you charts before, we'll probably show another one at Barclays, which is the exact chart that we talked to our organization about internally, which shows that we cannot get to our OTSR objectives with only bottom-line growth. We cannot get to our OTSR objectives, equally, without only top-line growth. That is the beauty of the metric, it's a balancing metric. We get it.

OPERATOR: Ali Dibadj, Bernstein.

ALI DIBADJ, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & CO.: Hey, guys.

You sound very different than I would've hoped on the call today or on CNBC this morning. There is still a lot of defiance, there's still a lot of confidence, it feels like. Look, all the frustration we're all feeling, I feel as well, probably times 10. You are brushing off the tough questions and maintaining this, trust us, it'll turn, it'll turn. But let me offer you a look through the lens of a shareholder, who you are as well, and you see what the stock price has done. You look at organic sales growth and it's dismal and it's getting worse. And you admit that. The cost savings are good but they seem too small and they seem like they're slowing in some cases, like the net part of it is slowing. The transaction is complex and tough and I get it. But maybe it's not as big as it should be. You have a CEO with respect to -- at least versus a lot of people's expectations -- of leaving a little early; you missed four or five years in a row.

And it just feels like there is still this -- trust us and things will change because we're divesting things. I still struggle to see what is actually going to be different. I get you're going to get rid of 14% of your sales, 15% of your sales and 6% of your operating profit. But is that really it? Is that 1% incremental growth you're going to get out of getting out of those businesses -- is that what we're hoping for as shareholders? And how long do you want to wait? How long do want us to wait before you do think about bigger changes? I understand that you don't want to go there now, but how long do we have to wait? And particularly in this new normal of more active shareholder, I struggle with what keeps us at bay or what keeps us pleased.

A.G. LAFLEY: Do you have a recommendation, Ali?

ALI DIBADJ: I think Plan B, which is seriously thinking about breaking up the Company -- that's very complex -- is a viable option. It sounds like you guys have looked at it. I want to understand why it hasn't worked, because the stuff you're doing seems to make sense. The stuff you're doing that we listed -- cost cutting and trying to innovate more and closing price gaps where you have to and raising accountability -- all these things, from a classic strategic consulting thoughtful way makes sense. But it's just not working.

We all are frustrated, but we also feel for you, because the strategy is possibly the right one -- which might suggest there's another bigger solution here. Which is: it's just too big to run. Maybe perhaps even a growth Company anymore. You have to think about differently from just being growth. There are other options that we don't hear being contemplated or argued against. It's just a -- trust us -- and I think that's at least my frustration.

A.G. LAFLEY: Okay, let me just say couple of things, because we may see things differently, although I want to make sure that you understand, and everyone understands, that we consider every option and run every analysis. First point. The Company is 40% to 50% less complex, and I don't think that is understood. It is just dawning onus that, that's incredibly important. The second thing is the time horizon. Our time horizon is more consistent, more reliable, more sustainable growth, and value creation. And we believe that you build a foundation and you build this a building block at a time.

I would argue that you'd just have to look at what we've been able to do with half of our program in place in North America in baby diapers, and you could, without a great leap of faith, consider that we might be able to do the same again in China where we still have the leading brand, when we bring a consumer-preferred pull-on or pant and when we bring the next generation of premium taped diapers in a market where new moms are flocking to imported Japanese premium products that we know how to compete with.

The same thing in fabric care. You could conclude that we have gotten a stubborn category that wasn't growing in the US, growing again. We have been able to trade new consumers into a mature category, trade them up, grow with retailers and the supply chain. You can see what we've done in Japan, where we have grown significantly. And you could say, yes, it really does take 18 months to put up a brand-new manufacturing plant. And we are shipping in China. I could go around the world. Hair care, we have totally redone, the product and technology program, and we've positioned ourselves to start shipping the first product. I understand the point.

Two more comments on the break-up and then impossible to manage. We reverse engineered and analyzed in detail the last decade exit from the food and beverage business. We did it internally and we did it with outside objective view. And we concluded that we generated significantly more value for shareowners in our focused and deliberate step-at-a-time withdrawal from the segments of that industry. And it was about the same size exit as the one we're going through now -- I can't remember the precise number, Jon, but it was probably $6 billion or $7 billion. We're all about optimizing value for shareowners, but it's over a longer time horizon, I think, than you are.

And then I think the last question will always be a question, and that is, can the leadership and management team manage and deliver? We think we can. It's a new team. David and I are going to be side by side for the next several months, a year or more. We think we're to the point where a lot of this operationalization, which is incredibly important, and just good execution, consistent and excellent every day.

I understand the point about patience and impatience. I think as Jon said earlier, we're in violent agreement, we want to grow the top line as much as anybody on the call. And we just think that, one step at a time, it's coming. And oh, by the way, we've got two -- we had another several months of tough sledding ahead because the environment in developing markets and this whole FX thing is not going to change. We're just trying to be realists here.

OPERATOR: Joe Altobello, Raymond James.

JOE ALTOBELLO, ANALYST, RAYMOND JAMES: Hey, thanks, good morning.

One quick one in terms of the transition. Obviously, when you guys come out of this, you're going to look a lot different. You mentioned, A.G., you're going to be 40% to 50% less complex. In theory -- at least on paper -- a faster-growing more profitable Company. Could you talk about the capital intensity of Procter & Gamble two or three years from now? Are you going to be a lot less capital-intense, given the new business, or the new portfolio that you'll have at that point? Thanks.

A.G. LAFLEY: No, we won't. As I said, Joe, we're in a period where we're clearly investing and returning. But replatforming of our grooming business, which has enabled us to introduce the Venus upgrade in like six months after the male upgrade; the investments we're making in the new product innovation in fabric; the major investments we're making in the new product in baby. As Jon said, putting up to six new mixing and distribution centers in North America, and we'll be rolling across Europe over the next several years; finish the job in North America over the next several years. And we'll move on to developing markets with getting our supply chain as effective and efficient and streamlined as possible. I don't think you're going to see an increase. We would hope for it to level out in time, but I would say for the next one, two, three years we're going to be investing at about the current rate in CapEx.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference. Thank you for your participation. You may now disconnect. Have a great day.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
prgml : The Procter & Gamble Company
   IN
i258 : Cosmetics/Toiletries | icnp : Consumer Goods | ipcare : Personal Care Products/Appliances
   NS
c151 : Earnings | cgvfil : Government Filings | gforex : Foreign Exchange (Personal Finance) | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Financial Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | gpersf : Personal Finance | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020150731eb7u003s7
  


 HD
 Q3  2015  Procter  & Gamble Co Earnings Call - Final
   WC
11,733 words
   PD
23 April 2015
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©015 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good morning, and welcome to Procter & Gamble's quarter-end conference call. Today's discussion will include a number of forward-looking statements. If you will refer to P&G's most recent 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K reports, you will see a discussion of factors that could cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from these projections.

   TD
As required by regulation G, P&G needs to make you aware that during the call the Company will make a number of references to non-GAAP and other financial measures. Management believes these measures provide investors valuable information on the underlying growth trends of the business.

Organic refers to reported results excluding the impacts of acquisitions and divestitures and foreign exchange where applicable. Adjusted free cash flow represents operating cash flow, less capital expenditures and excluding tax payments for the pet care divestiture. Adjusted free cash flow productivity is the ratio of adjusted free cash flow to net earnings adjusted for impairment charges.

Any measure described as core refers to the equivalent GAAP measure adjusted for certain items. Currency neutral refers to the equivalent GAAP measure, excluding the impact of foreign-exchange rate changes. P&G has posted on its website, www.pg.com, a full reconciliation of non-GAAP and other financial measures.

Now I will turn the call over to P&G's Chief Financial Officer, Jon Moeller.

JON MOELLER, CFO, THE PROCTER & GAMBLE COMPANY: Good morning. January to March with another challenging quarter from a macro standpoint, with significant foreign exchange headwinds, modest market growth, and continued political and economic volatility. The currency challenge increased through the quarter, with currencies in Brazil, Turkey, and the Ukraine weakening sequentially versus the dollar.

Despite these challenges, we grew constant-currency core earnings per share at a double-digit rate. We grew core gross margin, including and excluding foreign exchange, and made strong core operating margin progress up 170 basis points on a constant-currency basis. All of this was enabled by over 400 basis points of productivity savings.

Organic sales grew modestly, up 1%. Grooming; healthcare; and baby, feminine, and family care segments grew 9%, 6%, and 2% respectively. Organic sales were in line with the prior year in fabric and home care due to the timing of innovation launches in North America in both the base period and the current year.

The base period included pipeline and shipments for the major fabric care innovation bundle, including the Tide Plus upgrades and introductions of Tide Simply Clean & Fresh and Gain Flings, which led to 6% organic sales growth for the segment in the year-ago quarter. The current period includes the impact of trade inventory draw down ahead of the launch of new liquid detergent and fabric enhancer formulations.

Fabric care consumption remains strong in North America, with market share growth on both a value and a volume basis. Beauty segment results, however, reflect softness in prestige fragrance and mask skin care.

Organic volume was down 2 points versus the prior year. Developing market volume was down low single digits following price increases taken to offset foreign-exchange devaluation in several countries and adjustments made to correct trade inventories in Mexico and China. These adjustments had about a 1-point impact on the Company's top line in the quarter.

Developed market organic volume was down 2%, driven mainly by timing impacts associated with the April 1st increase in the Japanese consumption tax last year. Shipments in Japan were up 22%, ahead of the consumption tax increase last year. And as a result, were down mid-teens in the current-year quarter. This had about a 0.5 point impact on total Company organic sales growth.

Pricing contributed 2 points to organic sales growth and mix added 1 point. All-in sales were down 8% versus the prior year due to an 8-point headwind from foreign exchange and a 1-point reduction from minor brand divestitures. We held or grew worldwide share on businesses representing about half of Company sales, and on businesses representing more than 60% of sales in our home US market.

We continued to grow share on many of our category-leading brands in countries where it matters most. Pampers, Tide, Gillette Fusion, and All was in the United States, for example. On a constant-currency basis, core earnings per share were up 10%, keeping us on track for double-digit constant-currency core earnings per share growth for the fiscal year. Including FX, which was an 18-percentage-point drag on the quarter, core earnings per share were $0.92, down 8% versus the prior year.

Foreign exchange [hurts] totaled $530 million after-tax in the March quarter and $1.2 billion after-tax fiscal year to date. They are forecast to be a $1.5 billion after-tax hurt for the fiscal year. For managing through the FX challenge with a combination of pricing, mix enhancement, and productivity cost savings. (Inaudible) opportunities on brands in countries and regions unaffected by FX.

Gross and operating margin growth improved sequentially versus the December quarter on both an all-in and X-currency basis, driven by productivity savings.

Core gross margin increased 20 basis points in the March quarter versus the prior year. This compares to a 20-basis-point decline last quarter. Excluding foreign exchange, core gross margin was up 90 basis points. This compares to a 40-basis-point improvement last quarter.

In the current period, cost savings of approximately 250 basis points and 90 basis points of improvement from higher pricing were offset by 150 basis points of mix, 50 basis points of innovation and capacity investments, and a modest increase in commodity costs.

Core SG&A costs as a percentage of sales increased 50 basis points; excluding FX they were down 80 basis points. 160 basis points of overhead and marketing savings were more than offset by 130 basis points of foreign-exchange impacts, 50 points of organization capability investments in R&D and sales, and 30 basis points of other operating items.

Cost of goods sold and SG&A savings totaled 410 basis points, as we continue to accelerate productivity initiatives and programs and they deliver ahead of our objectives.

Core operating margin was down 30 basis points versus the prior year including FX. This compares to a 60-basis-point decline last quarter. Core operating margin, excluding FX, was up 170 basis points, 50 basis points better than 120-point improvement last quarter. We expect even stronger margin expansion in the fourth quarter.

The effective tax rate on core earnings was 19.6%, 0.5 points above last year's quarterly rate. This leaves us on track for the guidance or fiscal year core tax rate of about 21%, which is roughly in line with last fiscal year's rate.

March quarter all-in GAAP earnings per share were $0.75, which include approximately $0.07 per share for non-core restructuring charges and $0.10 per share of charges from discontinued operations, primarily an adjustment to Duracell carrying balances to reflect P&G's March-ending stock price. We generated $3.6 billion in operating cash flow and $2.9 billion in adjusted free cash flow, with 117% adjusted free cash flow productivity this quarter.

Last week we increased our dividend for the 59th consecutive year, up 3%. We will be paying our dividend for the 125th consecutive year, every year since our incorporation in 1890.

In summary, we generated modest organic sales growth in the quarter, constant currency core earnings per share grew double digits, driven by 410 basis points of productivity savings. Constant-currency growth and operating margins were well ahead of a year ago, and we continue to build on our strong track record of cash productivity and cash return to shareholders.

While we must and will manage through the external headwinds and market volatility that is largely out of our control, the bulk of our effort is centered on driving significant opportunities in our control: brand initiatives and product innovation, business and brand portfolio simplification, overhead savings, and major supply chain productivity initiatives.

The Company and portfolio strengthening and simplification announced last August strategically resets P&G's Where to Play choices. We're focused on winning with consumers and customers who matter most in channels in countries that matter most, with core brands and businesses that create the strongest consumer preference and the best balance of growth and value creation. We will eliminate 60% of the brands and the complexity they create while retaining about 85% of sales and 95% of before-tax profit. That's a good trade.

The new Company will consist of about 65 leading brands, where the size of prize and probability of winning are the highest in 10 categories that are structurally attractive, and play to P&G's core strengths of consumer understanding, innovation, branding, go-to-market and leverage P&G's scale. It will enable more resources and attention on the biggest opportunities, resulting in faster, more profitable growth.

It's a focused portfolio with just seven categories representing 84% of sales and 85% of profit. It's also focused geographically with the top five countries for each category delivering about half to essentially all of global profits.

Every brand we plan to keep is strategic with the potential to grow and create value. Within these brands, we will operate with more efficient product line and SKU offerings, reducing SKUs 15% to 20% of the remaining portfolio over the next two years, the SKUs that shoppers want and consumers use.

Discontinued weeding will ensure new brand and product innovation as ample room to grow. We will create a faster growing, more profitable Company that is far simpler to operate. We currently expect to exit approximately 100 brand positions with a fair amount of the work already complete.

To date, we have divested, discontinued, or planned the consolidation of over 40 brands and about 40% of targeted sales. We have exited the bleach business, pet care, Duracell, [MBBIP], several fragrance brands, the DDF and Noxzema skin care brands, Vicks VapoSteam, and the Camay and Zest bar soap brands.

We're targeting to be in a position to have negotiated announced the entire program or at least a large components as early as this summer, roughly one year after our initial announcement, and to have executed, in other words, closed the program, by the end of FY16. This would enable us to head into FY17 with a new portfolio fully in place.

Another significant opportunity is strengthening and focusing our strategies and business models, to win with consumers and in channels and markets that matter most.

The strategy topic that has come up with increasing frequency in recent investor discussions is if leading brands are still relevant in a winning model and can still grow. We continue to believe that P&G's strategy and business model, consumer insights and innovations that lead to consumer-preferred products from brands that over time are leaders in their categories, is a winning formula for us, a constant, reliable, and sustainable driver of balanced growth and value creation.

Over the last five years, our category-leading $1-billion brands have been growing sales 1 point faster than our $0.5-billion brands, and several points faster than our smaller brands.

In most categories, our leading brands have the leading equities and net promoter scores. They are brands that retailers want and need in their stores, because category-leading P&G brands' household penetration and reach drives store traffic, and their purchase frequency and modest price premiums drive basket size.

Leading brands and product innovation grow categories. These large brands are platforms for innovations which can be commercialized far more effectively and more profitably than can be done on smaller ones. They typically earn a disproportionate amount of category profit and create a disproportionate amount of category value.

A good example is Pampers, our largest brand with $10 billion in annual sales. Pampers is growing at a 5% pace over the past three years. In the largest market, the United States, Pampers is driving category value growth of 3%, reversing a multi-year decline caused by declining birth rates and both competitor and trade price discounting.

P&G's US diaper share is up at over 90% of customers, widening our margin of category value share leadership to 9 points. The premium priced Swaddlers line is on track to reach over $750 million in sales this fiscal year, up more than 30% versus the prior year, and Loves is growing in the mid-tier with sales up mid-single digits this fiscal year.

We have built the leading baby diaper business in the US and in the world without a consumer preferred pants-style diaper. We have recently the rollout of our new Pampers Pants, designed to provide exceptional dryness and skin comfort in an underwear-like design. Achieving fair share of the global pant market represents another $2 billion sales growth opportunity.

Another good example is Tide, our second largest brand, at about $5 billion of sales. Tide has also been growing ahead of category growth rates, building share.

In the March quarter of last year, we introduced a strengthened fabric care brand and product line that significantly broadened consumer appeal. We offered shoppers a full range of brands and products priced from about $0.12 to $0.28 a laundry load, including broadened Pod offerings, new and improved liquid detergent options, and Tide Simply Clean & Fresh, a preferred brand of product for many consumers interested in good, basic cleaning at attractive everyday value.

In addition, we focus on trading in new-to-the-category consumers the Tide, with new washing machine buyer and new household formation programs. More consumers traded in and traded up than traded down.

In fact, Tide household penetration is up more than 200 basis points for the first time in several years. We recently hit an all-time record high US laundry detergent value share of 60%. Tide now holds a 40% value share of US laundry detergents, with brand equity and net promoter scores as strong as they've ever been.

Gain is the number two brand in the US detergent category (inaudible). Both of these leading brands have grown market share over the past 12-, 6-, and 3-month periods.

The Tide and Gain brands have provided a broad platform for unit dose innovation. They are trusted leading brands that consumers are willing to try their new product offerings. It would take a lot longer and cost a lot more to generate trial of Pods with a significantly smaller brand or across a portfolio of several brands.

Tide Pods and Gain Flings have reached a combined value share of over 10% of the US laundry market, and P&G's share of the unit dose segment is nearly 80%. We continue to expand Pods around the world, leveraging another multibillion-dollar brand, Ariel. We expect our unit dose products alone to reach $1.5 billion in sales this fiscal year.

Downy, along with its sister brand Lenor, is another multibillion-dollar franchise in the fabric care category. It's been growing at a high single-digit rate over the past three years, driven mainly by the success of our scent beads innovation. Since scent beads were a new product for consumers to add to their laundry regimen, we could have tried to launch them with a new brand. We chose instead to leverage the strong equity of Downy and Lenor, along with Gain and Bounce, to commercialize this new innovation.

We launched Downy Unstopables in the US about four years ago. Since then, scent beads have grown to 17% of sales in the fabric enhancer category and the category has sustained 3% growth. P&G's big brands have earned nearly an 80% share of the segment.

The largest male and female grooming brands, Gillette's Fusion and Venus, have proven to be huge platforms for blade and razor innovation. The original Fusion razor launched in January 2006 is still P&G's fastest brand to reach $1 billion in sales.

We've continued the growth of Fusion with the ProGlide innovation in 2010 and the big, obvious, and preferred Flexball innovation last year. Fusion value share of male razors is tracking in the high 50s and is up 2 points from last year. The Flexball razor handle innovation has translated into share growth on cartridges. Fusion value share of male cartridges is up more than 2 points versus a year ago.

We've put 12 million Fusion Flexball razors into the hands of men in the US in less than a year since launch. And we're now extending the breakthrough razor innovation to Venus, the market-leading female razor brand, with Venus Swirl, which began shipping in February.

Early consumption results are very strong, and less than three months since launch, we've sold over 1 million Swirl razors in the US. And Venus's value share of female razors was up more than 10 points, nearly 65% in March, the first full month Venus Swirl was available.

These new innovations from Gillette have helped reverse the declining value trend -- market value trend in US blades and razors, improving year-on-year growth rates by 3 points versus the 12 months prior to the Flexball launch. Consumers significantly prefer these better performing products. The market-leader consumer trusted Fusion and Venus brands are driving awareness, trial, and share results from new innovations that will be more difficult for a new smaller brand to achieve.

We're taking a similar approach in the female incontinence category, leveraging our multibillion-dollar Always brand to enter this $7-billion faster-growing global category. We began shipments of Always Discreet in the UK in July, and the US, Canada, and France in August.

In the UK, the adult incontinence category is growing double digits, roughly 50% faster since our entry. The US category growth rate has also more than doubled to around 9%, with P&G value share exceeding 10% in the most recent four-week period. We've continued the expansion of Always Discreet with launches into Germany, Switzerland, and Austria, with more European markets coming soon.

A few of our leading brands are not growing like we know they can. We're bringing the same strategic focus and operating discipline to these brands that we have to the ones I've just mentioned. Ensuring the brand strategies and business models are aimed at delighting the target consumer, building strong pipelines and portfolios of consumer meaningful product innovation, ensuring SKU assortment and brand presence are attractive and easy to shop at the shelf, and ensuring that marketing and sales programs persuasively convey the value and relevance of our brands and product benefits to consumers.

Another opportunity directly in our control is productivity. We have made very good progress and have a lot of runway remaining. We have significantly accelerated and will significantly exceed the cost savings and overhead enrollment goals we set three years ago. We're driving cost of goods savings well above the original target run rate of $1.2 billion per year, with $1.6 billion of savings this fiscal year.

We expect to improve manufacturing productivity by 5% this year. This will bring cumulative past three-year manufacturing enrollment reduction to 15%, including new staffing necessary to support capacity additions. On a same-site basis, enrollment will be down nearly 20% over this past three years, enabled by technology, and our integrated work systems approach.

We expect to start up at least 18 new plants or modules in the developing markets in the next few years. This will not only help our foreign exchange exposure, but will drive manufacturing, transportation, and customs and duties savings. As we start up these new sites, we have opportunities to apply technology and automate in an affordable way and to close couple and integrate further with suppliers, delivering additional manufacturing efficiencies.

In developed markets, we have begun work on what is the biggest supply chain redesign in the Company's history. We're designing the supply chain to accelerate consumer preferred products to market and to make and distribute them in both the customer service preferred and cost-advantaged way.

Supply chain transformation began with the distribution network in the United States consolidating customer shipments into fewer Company distribution centers. These distribution centers have strategically located closer to key customers and key population centers, enabling 80% of the Company's business to be within one day of the store shelf and the shopper.

All six of the new distributional [mixing] centers are up and running, all on or ahead of schedule. We expect to complete the conversion out of legacy locations this year. In addition to lower costs, this transformation will allow both P&G and our retail partners to optimize inventory levels while improving service and on-shelf availability.

In February, we announced that we will be constructing a new multi-category manufacturing facility in West Virginia, the next step in the North American supply change redesign. We've taken the first steps in the transformation of our European supply chain. We recently announced the consolidation of distribution centers in France and the UK and the consolidation of manufacturing for some home care products into our plants in Italy.

We see a $1-billion to $2-billion value-creation opportunity from the global supply chain reinvention effort. We are targeting to build $400 million to $600 million in annual cost savings over five years and are expecting top-line benefits for more effective customer service and reduction of out-of-stocks. This value and these savings are incremental to the $6 billion of cost-of-goods savings we originally communicated and are on track to exceed.

Through March, we've reduced non-manufacturing or overhead enrollment by over 19%, nearly double the 10% reduction we initially envisioned when we launched our restructuring program. We continue to evolve the organization design so that is business-focused, starting with consumers and customers, and so that it is simpler, more effective, more responsive, and more efficient.

We've organized around industry-based sectors; we are streamlining and deduplicating the work of business units and selling operations; we've consolidated four brand-building functions into one. Each of these changes reduces complexity and each creates clear accountability for performance and results.

A more focused portfolio of brands and businesses will enable further organization changes. We should be close to the high end of our estimated 16% to 22% non-manufacturing enrollment reduction range by the end of this fiscal year, more than a year ahead of plan, with additional opportunity remaining. As a result, we are increasing our overhead enrollment reduction target to 25% to 30%, excluding divestitures by the end of FY17, reflecting additional opportunities we see.

The third cost area where we continue to have significant savings opportunity is marketing. By following the consumer, we are improving marketing spending effectiveness and efficiency to deliver more with less. We're shifting more advertising to digital media, search, social, video, and mobile, which is where consumers are spending more of their time.

One non-media cost area that offers significant opportunity is agency spending, which includes fees and production costs for agencies we use for advertising, media, public relations, package design, and development of in-store materials. We plan to significantly simplify and reduce the number of agency relationships and the cost associated with the current complexity and inefficiency, while upgrading agency capability to improve creative quality and communication effectiveness. We see an opportunity for up to $0.5 billion in cost savings in this area, along with stronger communication to consumers across all touch points.

These efficiencies are enabling us to maintain strong media [awaits], despite the cost structure we're facing from foreign exchange and to reinvest in all elements of the marketing mix to improve our positions and support new innovations like Always Discreet; Fusion Flexball; Venus Swirl; Downy Unstopables; and Tide, Gain, and Ariel unit-dose detergents.

Productivity-driven cost savings continue to be a key enabler of our efforts to strengthen profitability in developing markets. Constant-currency earnings grew two times faster than sales in developing markets in 2013, four times faster than sales in 2014, and are forecast to grow six times faster than sales this fiscal year. Over those three years, we'll have grown developing market constant-currency earnings 13%, 28%, and 27% respectively. In total, we're forecasting developing market margins, including FX, to be up about 40 basis points for the year.

We are focused on driving productivity improvement up and down the income statement and across the balance sheet. Disciplined working capital management, strong execution of our supply chain financing program, and the scarcity mentality in capital spending will continue to drive strong cash flow results.

With that, let me turn to guidance. As we look to the April/June quarter, productivity savings should continue to grow. The benefits from portfolio strengthening and simplification should continue to build. Oil-based commodity costs should become a tailwind and additional foreign-exchange-related pricing will kick in.

With just one quarter remaining, we now expect organic sales growth of low single-digits for the fiscal year. Prices should be a significant contributor to sales growth again in the fourth quarter, which should more than offset pressure on unit volume growth.

FX will continue to be headwind, and we will continue to invest in category-leading established brands like Pampers, Tide, and Gillette, and product introductions like Always Discreet and Venus Swirl, and R&D for future innovation and sales coverage and effectiveness, and in capabilities and people that will enhance our chances of success in the near, mid, and long term.

We are maintaining our outlook for double-digit, constant-currency core earnings-per-share growth for the fiscal year. We expect foreign exchange to have about a 13-point impact on core earnings-per-share growth for the year. We're maintaining our core earnings-per-share guidance range of in line to down low single digits versus last year's core earnings per share of $4.09. With the current foreign-exchange outlook, we expect to be toward the lower half of this guidance range, consistent with analyst consensus estimates.

We're forecasting all-in sales to be down 5% to 6% for the fiscal year; this includes the 6- to 7-point negative impact from foreign exchange and a 1-point impact for minor brand investitures.

We expect all-in GAAP earnings per share to be down 21% to 22% versus the prior fiscal year. This includes approximately $0.83 per share of non-core costs, primarily from $0.63 per share of non-cash adjustments to carrying values of the Duracell business and $0.20 per share of non-core restructuring charges.

As you construct your fourth-quarter earnings-per-share models, keep in mind that several of the minor brand divestitures I mentioned earlier are expected to close in the fourth quarter. Altogether, we're expecting about $0.04 per share of non-operating income gains in core earnings per share versus the prior year.

Reflecting the same productivity focus we're bringing to cost savings, we are now forecasting 100% adjusted free cash flow productivity, above prior guidance of at least 90%. Key enablers of this strong cash productivity include improved results on payables, including continued progress on our supply chain financing program and steady improvements on inventory management.

We are maintaining our outlook for cash return to shareholders. We plan to return cash to share owners through dividend payments of more than $7 billion and share repurchase of approximately $5 billion. This guidance range assumes mid-April spot rates for foreign exchange. Further significant currency weakness, including Venezuela is not anticipated within this guidance range.

Our outlook is based on current market growth rates, which we are monitoring closely, especially in markets where we are taking large price increases to offset currency impacts. We also continue to monitor unrest in several markets in the Middle East, Russia and the Ukraine, and we continue to closely monitor markets like Venezuela and Argentina where pricing controls, import restrictions, and access to dollars present risk.

On the flip side, our guidance does not reflect some potential tailwinds. Our results could improve if currencies ease, if markets began to expand in a sustainable way, or if US economic growth accelerates.

Stepping back, we are continuing to invest in our brands and products, and in critical Company capabilities that will enable much better consumer and customer responsiveness, with systems that are more agile, faster, better, and cheaper. We continue to invest strategically in additional capacity for critical developing markets, and we continue to rationalize our manufacturing processes so that common, simpler, and more globally standard making and packing platforms support accelerated product innovation and a lower cash, capital, and operating costs.

We continue to evolve the organization design so that it is business-focused, starting with consumers and customers, simpler, more effective, more responsive, and more efficient. We continue to invest selectively in sales coverage and merchandising to improve execution for shoppers in stores and online. We continue to invest selectively in product innovation technologies and product initiative acceleration. We are improving our digital and e-commerce capabilities and are reinventing our supply chain.

Through this transformation, we are creating a more in-touch, agile, coordinated, and integrated organization that puts winning with the consumer first. We are sharpening our strategies and business models. We are operating and executing with more consistency. These are the choices and the capabilities that will enable balanced growth and value creation in the mid- and long-term as we work our way through the currency devaluations in the short term.

That concludes our prepared remarks for this morning. As a reminder, business segment information is provided in our press release and will be available in slides, which will be posted on our website, www.pg.com following the call. Now I'd be happy to take questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: Thank you.

(Operator Instructions)

Your first question will come from Bill Schmitz from Deutsche Bank.

BILL SCHMITZ, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Good morning.

JON MOELLER: Good morning.

BILL SCHMITZ: Hey, can you just talk about the first derivative impact, the strong dollar? So what's going on in some of the emerging markets with some of the big increases you've taken? And then you look at some of the (inaudible) in the US and its clearing categories like shampoo where percentage of sales and ACV is massively spiking.

L'Oreal is talking about seeking revenge Henkel is launching Persil exclusively at Walmart. So can you just talk about what that is relative to your expectations and how you plan on combating that going forward? Thank you.

JON MOELLER: Thank you, Bill. First, I would say it's still relatively early in the development of that, the development of whatever dynamic occurs here. But so far, markets have held up fairly well. As I said, it's pretty early, so we really won't know the impacts in markets like Russia until next quarter or the quarter after.

I think you've seen from several of the companies in the industry that have reported through the last quarter the Russian market was actually up, as they anticipate a price increase was coming. So again, we haven't seen a second lag there.

What I would tell you, broadly is that, and I'll get to the US in a second, but in developing markets, those currencies have devalued not just versus the dollar, but also versus the euro. If you take the case of Russia, which we talked through in some detail in the last call, there's every reason for both local competitors and multinational competitors to be pricing in many of these markets. And that's generally won't be in early days what we are seeing. As it a relates to the overall, the overall promotional environment, competitiveness, etc., and reflecting specifically on the US, if we look at the percentage of volume that was sold on promotion in the January to March quarter, it indexes at 100, so it was identical to last year. And if you look at it sequentially quarter to quarter, there's very little change. That doesn't mean that it couldn't change, but that's the data thus far, and that's consistent with the dynamics in our own business.

Obviously, by category, you mentioned hair care; we may see more promotion in one quarter or another. There's obviously promotion as competitors and ourselves introduce new products and are trying to generate trials of those items. But to date, there's nothing from either a developing market standpoint or a developed market standpoint that would indicate systemic change.

OPERATOR: Our next question will come from Dara Mohsenian of Morgan Stanley.

DARA MOHSENIAN, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Hey, good morning.

JON MOELLER: Good morning, Dara.

DARA MOHSENIAN: So I just wanted to talk a little bit about EPS guidance, and clearly you're keeping the EPS guidance here despite the FX hit and organic sales coming in, that are now expected to come in a bit below what you originally expected. Do you think you're stretching the organization here to hit these EPS targets? It seems like every year we've got this hockey stick in Q4 earnings.

You've now got some gains coming through Q4 earnings in Q4; ad spend's been down over the last few years, and I know a lot of that is the external environment. Clearly macros are working against you. But I'm just wondering if there was a thought process as you look out to next year in the earnings guidance that, given some of this external volatility and some of the internal issues, you might need to provide yourself more cushion room when you look at guidance versus what has been the case over the last few years here? Thank you.

JON MOELLER: So you make a couple of good observations there, Dara. Let me try to address them holistically. In terms of the forecast and guidance, we'll obviously get into that in more specifics in August. We're just in the middle of our prep season right now.

But there is almost no amount of cushion on which you can build in that overcomes $1.5 billion of after-tax foreign exchange cost, the majority of which were not anticipated based on spot markets as we went into the year and structured our budgets last year.

But that doesn't mean, I agree with your point, that we need to provide sufficient room to invest in the business, and frankly, we have not pulled off in that regard. We have continued to invest, as I tried to make clear in my remarks, in certain parts of the organization, both R&D and sales. We continue to invest in our brand and product platforms; we have continued to invest in the redesign of our supply chain; we've continued to invest in new product launches and that's clearly going to continue through next quarter.

We're just in the first-quarter launches of things like Venus Swirl and Always Discreet, and they will receive full support. As well, for instance, the laundry innovations that I briefly mentioned in our opening remarks.

So what allows us, if FX is going to continue to be a headwind and we are going to continue to invest, which we are, what allows us to deliver the fourth-quarter number that, as you rightly point out, will be materially better than the first three quarters. We will have, as I mentioned, commodity cost tailwinds. We will have the full benefit of this year's productivity savings.

Pricing for some of the currencies will begin to kick in; there will be a minor impact, as we noted on a minor divesture gains. But it's those items, look at the 410 basis points of productivity savings in this quarter, while we continue to invest in all of the things I've talked about. It's a continuation of that that should allow us to deliver.

Philosophically, I have no difference, I'm completely aligned to what you're suggesting in terms of how we construct plans and budgets. And I think our current plan and budget is constructed that way. Recall, in the middle of the year, we took earnings-per-share guidance down, so we're not a slave to that. As I've said many times, if I've proven anything over the last six or seven years, it's that I'm not constrained by guidance.

So we will continue investing, but we will continue to develop productivity savings as well. And we are hopeful that reinvesting the right amount of those in the top line will get both the top line and bottom line growing at very attractive rates.

OPERATOR: We will now move on to John Faucher of JPMorgan.

JOHN FAUCHER, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Thank you. Jon, can you talk a little bit about gross margin? You've delivered gross margin expansion a couple of times now, despite pretty weak top line. And it's -- we're seeing -- it seems like we might be seeing one-off mix benefits from that standpoint, in terms of less emerging markets or potentially grooming being better that's driving that.

So can you talk to us about the progression on gross margin as we look out over the next couple of quarters? Do you need one-off things to happen within those quarters in order to get there? And what do you think is the rate of benefit coming from local manufacturing, particularly in terms of lessening the mix impact over time? Thank you.

JON MOELLER: So the biggest driver of gross margin, by far, were the productivity savings of 250 basis points, and that's not one time and doesn't rely on certain categories growing faster than others. That's there; it's systemic. I suspect we will maintain or increase that, and I expect gross margin to continue to improve next quarter, which would make it, I think three quarters in a row, which again, is some indication of the systemic improvement there.

There was some benefit, as you rightly mentioned, from mix, which is frankly, the developing and developed markets growing at closer rates to each other. And if developing markets were to accelerate, that mix benefit would be slightly -- excuse me, that mix hurt would be slightly increased.

In terms of the benefit of local manufacturing, that continues to build; it's part of the 250 basis points. I honestly don't know exactly how that breaks out in terms of basis-point improvement, but John and Katie can help you with that. But it is significant, and as I mentioned, we're making very good progress on developing market margins through that and other dynamics, including positive mix developments as those markets, in some cases premiumize.

And as I said, we're going constant-currency earnings ahead of constant-currency sales growth 2X three years ago, 4X last year, 6X this year, and that's a trend that should continue.

OPERATOR: We will now take a question from Olivia Tong with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.

OLIVIA TONG, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Thank you very much. Jon, with organic sales now having deccelerated a bit more, can you talk through some of the incremental big initiatives that need to be taken to drive improvements? Because it seems a bit too simple to say that getting out of some of the slower growing categories and the portfolioship is going to be enough. Is it a function of consumers across a number of categories, not just within HPC, but across staples, sort of trading out a bigger brand which has potentially more nichier offerings here and there?

JON MOELLER: Thank you, Olivia. Our largest brands are our fastest-growing brands. That's true over a five-year period, over a three-year period, over a one-year period, and it was true last quarter. So I'm not disputing the dynamic that you describe in terms of smaller brands' impact in some categories. I think it's more prevalent, for example in some of the beverage categories and food categories. But any period of time we look at convinces us that along with the intuitive benefits and big brand platforms in terms of innovation, importance to retailers, etc, convinces us that this is a business model that will continue to work for us.

In terms of -- you mentioned organic sales deceleration, I just want to put that in context a little bit. I really -- really Is don't see significant deceleration and let me explain that. We rounded up to two for the last two quarters; this quarter we rounded down to one. We're talking very small differences quarter to quarter sequentially.

I mentioned in my prepared remarks the impact that the timing of the consumption tax increase had in Japan. That item alone, if you take that out of the results, we would've rounded to 2. My point is not that that's a measure of victory or defeat; my point is simply that I don't see any systemic deceleration in the sales quarter to quarter.

Portfolio, as you rightly indicate, will help promote the top-line and the bottom-line. And you are absolutely right, there is additional work on brands into some markets we need to do to fully maximize growth, and I mentioned those in my prepared remarks as well.

We have work to do in Mexico that we're getting through that very nicely. We have work to do in China, and as I mentioned, China growth rates continue to be good, so that all looks pretty reasonable.

And as you know from our results, we have continued work to do in beauty, some of which will be addressed through the portfolio, and some of which we are currently making significant progress on.

I think when you step back, and I realize it's a little bit difficult to see, and I certainly appreciate that, but we're really on track or ahead with everything we are trying to do to transform this Company to a more sustainable, more reliable grower, on both the top and bottom line. And that gets lost in the messiness of execution, if you will, and frankly, through the fog of FX currently.

But we are very happy with where we sit in terms of the progress we're making on both the portfolio and on the brands that are going to constitute the new Company.

OPERATOR: Now we will take a question from Chris Ferrara from Wells Fargo.

CHRIS FERRARA, ANALYST, WELLS FARGO SECURITIES, LLC: Thank you. Jon, I guess I apologize in advance for a long question, but inventory reductions and unprofitable promos, right, that you guys have been back out of, I guess. I wanted to talk a little bit about.

So can you revisit, specifically, the drivers of the weakness in Mexico? Because I know you're talking about consumption tax. I think there was some exiting of some unprofitable promotion. I think you're also citing some inventory reductions. So can you at least give more specifics around how those issues are maybe related?

And then for Mexico and for China, how long do these inventory corrections take? I know in China Unilever sort of ripped the Band-Aid off and took a 20% hit. Do you have a defined strategy on this and how long will it drag?

And then just lastly, are there any other markets where this stuff is happening maybe just even on a smaller scale? Thank you.

JON MOELLER: Thank you, Chris. Let me deal with Mexico first. This was simply -- in any of the developing markets, the supply chains from a manufacturer's door to a store are long and layered. China as an example, you're going through distributors, wholesalers, secondary wholesalers.

And so when there's a significant change in market growth rate, as there was in Mexico as a result of the consumption tax increase last year, as there have been in China, as many of our competitors have reported, there is a lot of inventory in the system, which needs to get drawn down. And you're not in complete control of how quickly that can be accomplished because you are not owning all of that inventory. But we're working our way through that.

In Mexico, if you look at growth rates quarter to quarter, they've improved significantly on the order of magnitude of 10 points. And we are expecting significant further improvement in AMJ, so I would say that one, we are largely, at least from a visibility horizon, we see our way through that.

China as I mentioned, if you look at consumption, we're in a very good place in China and in many categories. We're probably two quarters in to the inventory reduction that needs to occur, and that's largely consistent with what our competitors have reported as well. I would say we've got another quarter or two to go there, and then we have some structural work that we need to do.

But as I said, these are large, developing markets with very complicated long-layered supply chains, and these are dynamics that are affecting the industry broadly. But once we're through them, it's back to business as normal, and we compete on the basis of the strength of our products and brands, and we feel very good about that.

I would tell you, Chris, that there are no other large issues like this that I'm currently aware of. We will have to, and we've talked about this several times, have to manage very carefully in some of the markets where our currency devaluation has been significant, because those market sizes can change pretty significantly, and we'll do that.

OPERATOR: And now will go to Wendy Nicholson of Citi.

WENDY NICHOLSON, ANALYST, CITI INVESTMENT RESEARCH: Hi, a couple things. First of all, just a follow-up on China. I was listening to what you said, and I guess I don't understand some of the other companies like Unilever and Colgate talked about destocking in China as of last summer, if not earlier, and now it's only hitting you. So I'm just curious why does it seem that the timing is unique to one manufacturer at a time? That's just a follow-up.

But then the bigger question is, from a volume-growth perspective and how it pertains to your longer-term growth algorithm, it just strikes me that we've seen an enormous number of really big, maybe not enormous, but order of magnitude, really big, successful innovations from you over the last four quarters And yet, we still haven't seen much volume growth. And so, I know we're going to get into it easier comps, but I -- it doesn't sound to me like the innovations that are coming down the pike are as big as Flexball or as big as Pods or Flings or whatnot. And so, is there a change in your long-term outlook for how much volume growth is going to contribute to the top line?

And last one, I promise, just on the marketing budget. I understand the idea of doing more with less, but given how competitive the market is and given how low your volume growth is, why wouldn't you choose to take some of those productivity savings and just do more with more? Thank you.

JON MOELLER: All right, first, in terms of timing, different companies, frankly, have very different product mixes and they move through different distribution channels. So if you think about Unilever with a large food business in China, it's very possible that they could have a different dynamic than the other channels. And we're talking displacement of one quarter here or something like that. So that's that item.

In terms of volume and initiatives, the biggest impact on volume has been the pricing for FX, and that will continue until those markets recover or until that annualizes. But our innovations, if you look at the big ones that you mentioned, first they are contributing to both category growth and share growth, and category growth is a real indication of the strength of an innovation. Does it lift the entire category? And we have seen that behind the things that I mentioned earlier.

And the good news is that those largely have been fully expanded in one market, the US, and as we expand those globally, we expect to see that same impact, just like we did with Always Discreet in both the UK and the US, for example.

So we're pretty optimistic as we look forward about the strength of our innovation program and what that can do from the top line. We're going to have to continue to manage the volume impacts of FX, but we're really focused on the revenue number as the leverage to generate operating profit and cash, and we're doing reasonably well there.

On marketing, as I mentioned, we are doing exactly what you would suggest we would do, Wendy, which is invest more where it makes sense to do that. And these innovations that I've talked about our exactly one place where we are doing just that and we will continue to that.

The investment behind the introduction of new brand, in terms of Always Discreet, as you can imagine is significant, and we're very happy with that because of the return that we can generate and because of the impact that's had on those markets, which are, as I mentioned, have doubled the growth rate versus the pre-entry period.

So we're not talking here about constriction of marketing dollars. What we are talking about is being as efficient and effective as we can and spending those dollars where they drive returns.

OPERATOR: And now we have a question from Steve Powers of UBS.

STEVE POWERS, ANALYST, UBS: Hi Jon. I just wanted to dig in to your comments on strategy a bit more. As you step back, as you mentioned productivity efforts have been sizable for a number of years, and they seem to be running ahead of plan. You've made significant shifts in how you're organized and now how your portfolio is structured, but alongside that, growth has been a struggle.

And I think we would all acknowledge that the macro environment hasn't helped. But do you think there's a risk that all this inwardly focused change in operational improvement has actually impeded your efforts to execute on the larger strategy that you articulated, namely uncovering consumer insights and driving consumer-preferred innovations? Because it just seems like all these internal improvements are continually being offset by relative struggles in that external marketplace.

And I don't mean for this to be an unfair question, but I'm just wondering at what point it's worth asking whether organic growth challenges may actually be exasperated by all this internal change? And whether improvement may have to, to some extent, just wait until those internal projects run their course? Thank you.

JON MOELLER: Thank you, Steve. That's actually a very good and very fair question, and it something that we continue to be in active dialogue on here at P&G. We're being very deliberate about the pace of some of the changes and ensuring that we have the capacity to execute to serve consumers, to serve shoppers, and to do that in a more effective manner every day. So that's exactly the question that we ask ourselves.

It's why, for example, we said we were going to take two years to complete the portfolio program, as opposed to overnight. We have the capacity to do that and deliver the business.

So again, I think you are asking the right question. It's one that we ask ourselves and we will make choices that maximize the total. That's one of the beauties of the metric that we're working against in terms of operating PSR; it's an integrated metric, which drives choice and balance across both growth and value creation. We simply can't there without one leg of that stool; the third leg being cash creation.

So we are approaching this in a very holistic sense, very cognizant of the right question that you asked and are trying to get the balance right. As I indicated earlier, we feel very good about where we are in terms of the progression against those strategic initiatives that you outlined and others, including the redesign of the supply chain. And in most of our big brands and categories, we're growing fairly well.

As I mentioned, if you look at grooming, healthcare, baby care, and family care, we grew at 9%, 6%, and 2% respectively. So that's not an indication of any systemic pinch point, if you will. Where we haven't performed as well is more a function of an individual business dynamic.

OPERATOR: And now we will move to Lauren Lieberman of Barclays.

LAUREN LIEBERMAN, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Thank you. Good morning.

JON MOELLER: Good morning, Laura.

LAUREN LIEBERMAN: Good morning. I had a follow-up on that, was the idea of doing -- taking two years for the divesture process. To what degree, though, is that creating or is it any disruption on employees wondering about what's being sold and when or retailers or competitors looking at the thing? Ooh, we can pounce on the business or we think that P&G may be deemphasizing. So what (inaudible) do you think that may actually be weighing on organic sales trend? The other thing was that Jon, you've been talking about how you feel good internally about the progress being made. You said but it's being masked by the messiness of execution. Maybe this wasn't a great word choice, but I feel like the one thing AG committed to nearly two years ago was we will improve execution, and that doesn't feel like it's happening.

So whether it's the one-off things that pop up with China, Mexico and honestly, I'm not convinced there won't be another big one-off two or three quarters from now. What is it that has or hasn't changed on the execution in the market? Thank you.

JON MOELLER: Well let me tackle that last one first. It was a poor word choice; I should've said the chunkiness of execution. Frankly, we've been very intentional in the focus on improving execution and feel very good about the progress that we're making there. So I apologize for that word choice, but there are just big chunks moving in and out as we make these very big transformational moves, which can butter things up a little bit.

In terms of organic sales growth and the portfolio impact, if you look at the businesses, take Duracell as an example, which is currently working to transition to Berkshire Hathaway. But the entire period that the business was working on that project leading up to the signing of the deal and post the signing of the deal, managing through transition, that business has held up extremely well. It's building market share.

I won't go into the details, but several of the other businesses that we will be looking to sell are also performing very well. In other words, growth rates well above 100 index versus year ago. So I think we've got about the right balance in terms of the pace at which we are moving and the work to be done. As I said, it is something that we relook every day, but it's not a major concern at this point.

OPERATOR: And now we have a question from Nik Modi of RBC Capital Market.

NIK MODI, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Yes, good morning, guys. Just two quick ones for me. Jon, some in the media world would suggest hat P&G is taking its marketing mix too digital heavy. So I just wonder if you could respond to that and your perspective around that?

And then the second question is in your prepared remarks you indicated (inaudible) rationalization will take place in the core portfolio the next couple of years, if I heard that right. Just curious how we should think about that and it's impact on organic revenue growth as we look out the next couple of years. I know you're not giving guidance, but just how should we think about it from a magnitude standpoint?

JON MOELLER: These are SKUs that are at the long, far tail in terms of productivity. So we have businesses where the bottom 20% of the SKUs are less than 1% of the sales, and the same is true with profit. So I think if anything, by removing the clutter, by allowing us to focus on product lines and SKUs that really matter to consumers and customers, it should have a positive impact on the top line, not a negative; these are [eaches] in some cases. But they are meaningful in terms of the amount of complexity that they create. That's true in our operation; that's true at the shelf; that's true in the warehouse.

In terms of our approach to digital versus traditional media, we viewed this very much as and, not an or. They complement each other, so we look at it very holistically. We are guided in our choice by two things: one is where consumers are spending their time in terms of consumption of media. We need to be reasonably in step with that.

And the second is depending on the category, what media they want to interact with and learn about our products on, and that's different across categories. So we're going to be guided, as in everything we do by the consumer, and if we stay with that approach, we will probably not stray too far from what's right.

OPERATOR: And now we will move to Javier Escalante of Consumer Edge Research.

JAVIER ESCALANTE, ANALYST, CONSUMER EDGE RESEARCH: Good morning, everyone. Jon, I have to say that I'm still having a hard time reconciling the top-line growth of 1%, where your positive remarks about some of your big brands, Tide and Pampers? The flip side of the response that you gave to Olivia earlier is that you basically are telling investors that Procter performance in the past quarters have been actually weaker, and organic sales only round up to 2.

Shouldn't you be considering a bigger portfolio change or breakup even, given that sectors like beauty are not only getting more fermented and smaller than any food and beverages category that you alluded earlier? And instead of reducing SKUs by 15% and 20%, as Nik just said, what you are going to have is subpar, top-line growth for the next two years? Thank you.

JON MOELLER: We're going to try to have full visibility on the portfolio moves by the summer, and I think we will be in a position then to articulate why we think these are the right moves. And so I'm going to save that conversation for that point in time.

But we are being thorough in our approach across each of the categories and brands. There's no business that we haven't objectively analyzed, and so I think we're going to end up in a pretty good place in that regard.

In terms of -- look, on this whole thing of small brands and fragmentation, one, our data doesn't support that being an issue for most of the businesses that we're going to maintain. Second, where differentiated performance matters and where differentiated performance is delivered, this dynamic is not germane.

So for example, and I'll bring it to beauty in a second, Javier, but if you think about Pampers as an example, I can't think of a new mother who would be asking herself where performance really matters, would be asking herself what's the new diaper that nobody's ever tried before? Where can I discover the next diaper? That's not the thought process.

There's a job that needs to be done. There's a brand that has proven over decades it can do the job. It can do it better than the other offerings that are out there, and it's offered at a price that creates a good value.

If you think about performance and where performance matters in a beauty context, think about anti-dandruff shampoos. I've got a problem, I need a solution. This is not time to experiment, this time to solve.

Head & Shoulders has been solving dandruff issues for decades. It's a brand that consumers know and trust, and it's offered at a reasonable value. So I think we have to think about the specific dynamics of a category, the consumer approach to the category, the relevance of innovation of the category and differential performance as a driver of purchase, before we make broad conclusions about whether fragmentation is going to occur or not.

And in terms of your question on split up, again, let's wait until we have the portfolio in front of us and talk about it at that point. We're very bullish. And again, this is not just based on what we think is going to happen; this is based on 10, 5, 3, and 1 years of data, which is very consistent in its outcome. And these are categories that we have long track records of winning in, where we are typically the market leader with brands and prototypes in those categories.

OPERATOR: And next we have Joe Altobello with Raymond James.

UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT, ANALYST: Hi this is Christine on for Joe. I just wanted to change the topic quickly and go to commodity costs and whether you are still expecting that to be a $500 million to $700 million tailwind next year? And how much of that do you actually expect to recover net of pricing?

JON MOELLER: We would -- our current estimate would be more on the order of magnitude of $600 million to $800 million of BT commodity costs savings next fiscal year. Really don't have a point of view yet on how much of that we'll be able to take to the bottom line, as opposed to pass through in price.

So if you just reflect on the dynamics in the industry, this was an industry that, with the exception of some international competitors who have FX tailwinds, is challenged from a profit-growth standpoint. And that's a dynamic that generally supports using these savings as a way to help that situation. So we're hopeful that many of these will come to the bottom line, but that's something that we will have to see as we move forward.

OPERATOR: Your next question will come from Ali Dibadj at Bernstein.

ALI DIBADJ, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & COMPANY, INC.: Hey guys. Jon, you're getting the same question from many folks over and over again, and I'm not sure the message is necessarily clear, which is we've been hearing a lot of promise that help is around the corner for years, years. And every back half of the year, you kind of limp across the finish line; it's not just this year.

And I guess for me at least, I just wonder whether P&G has the right to be consistently in a short-term optimist at least, given its recent track record. And now the promise is wait till we break up 14% sales, 6% of operating cost out of our business, things will be much better. But at that point, how much longer would we have to wait to -- for you guys to decide that maybe something even bigger has to happen. Maybe you really got to rebase your guidance, and you should be delivering double-digit EPS growth. Maybe you really have to break up the Company even further.

I think there's a lot of frustration in terms of trying to see results, granted the macro stuff, granted the FX, but others have that too. How much longer do we have to wait, I guess, is really the core question? Especially after this next promise of divestitures, how much longer do we have to wait after that? Thank you.

JON MOELLER: So last year you mentioned FX, I think you're right to mention that. Excluding FX, we grew 14% on the bottom line last year. This year, we will grow double digits. I think it's pretty clear that the operating improvements that we're making, productivity and otherwise, are coming through. And if it weren't for FX, we'd be having a very different discussion right now.

We do have brands and businesses where we need to continue to strengthen the top line; we are cognizant of that. I mentioned that. And that is what it is.

As we look at the change that we're in the middle of executing, it's probably the biggest transformation this Company has gone through across the totality of portfolio supply chain, organization, structure, and designed. And as I said, it's hard to see that all come together at this point. But each of the pieces we're very happy with the progress, and we'll see.

OPERATOR: Your final question comes from the desk of Caroline Levy of CLSA.

CAROLINE LEVY, ANALYST, CLSA LIMITED: Good morning, thank you much. Just a question about beauty again. Olay and Pantene are different from Head & Shoulders because there's not this clear need and promise and delivery. So if you just look at Olay and the performance, I know China has been very problematic, but around the world, why do you think P&G really should be in that type of business?

JON MOELLER: What first of all, Caroline, younger looking skin, I think is a real need. It's increasingly a need of mine beyond my hair-care need. And I'm not going to comment on specific businesses that we're going to be in or out again. We'll do that when we are ready to do that. But that's a business where function and performance -- differentiated performance does matter. It's what enabled us to build one of the largest -- the largest facial skin care brand in the world. That continues to have incredibly strong equity, and frankly, is growing significantly in many parts of the world where we haven't cluttered the equity on the shelf as badly as we have, for instance in the US and in China.

I was just, a couple weeks ago in the Gulf, in the Middle East, and that's a market where the brand architecture is much cleaner and clear. And that business is growing double digits. The same thing is true in the UK on Olay where again, we haven't cluttered either the messaging, the equity, or the shelf.

So skin care is clearly, look at SK2 as an example; it delivers a clear benefit that's coveted by women particularly in Asia. So it's not a business that is all about fashions and style; it's about a business -- it's a business that's about performance.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, that concludes today's conference. Thank you for your participation. You may down disconnect. Have a great day.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
prgml : The Procter & Gamble Company
   IN
i258 : Cosmetics/Toiletries | icnp : Consumer Goods | ipcare : Personal Care Products/Appliances
   NS
c151 : Earnings | cgvfil : Government Filings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Financial Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | uk : United Kingdom | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020150425eb4n001md
  


 HD
 Q2  2015  Procter  & Gamble Co Earnings Call - Final
   WC
12,445 words
   PD
27 January 2015
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©015 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good morning, and welcome to Procter & Gamble's quarter end conference call. Today's discussion will include a number of forward-looking statements. If you will refer to P&G's most recent 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K reports, you will see a discussion of factors that could cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from these projections.

   TD
As required by Regulation G, P&G needs to make you aware that during the call the Company will make a number of references to non-GAAP and other financial measures. Management believes these measures provide investors valuable information on the underlying growth trends of the business. Organic refers to reported results excluding the impacts of acquisitions and divestitures and foreign exchange where applicable.

Adjusted free cash flow represents operating cash flow, less capital expenditures and excluding tax payments for the pet care divestiture. Adjusted free cash flow productivity is the ratio of adjusted free cash flow to net earnings adjusted for impairment charges. Any measure described as core refers to the equivalent GAAP measure adjusted for certain items. Currency neutral refers to the equivalent GAAP measure excluding the impact of foreign exchange rate changes.

P&G has posted on its website, www.pg.com, a full reconciliation of non-GAAP and other financial measures. Now I will turn the call over to P&G's Chief Financial Officer, Jon Moeller.

JON MOELLER, CFO, PROCTER & GAMBLE COMPANY: October and December was another challenging quarter from a macro standpoint with significant foreign exchange headwinds, modest market growth, and continued political and economic volatility. Against this backdrop, we were able to deliver organic top line growth and currency neutral core earnings growth that were in line with our going in expectations. Organic sales grew 2% in four a five business segments, Baby, Feminine and Family Care, Grooming, Health Care and Fabric and Home Care reported growth versus the prior year.

Top line growth trends improved as we move sequentially through the quarter finishing with mid-single-digit organic sales growth in December. Organic volume was in line with the prior year. Organic volume was up 1 point in developed markets. Developing market volume was down slightly as we took pricing to offset foreign exchange devaluation across several countries. Pricing and mix each added 1 point to sales growth.

Overall, we held or grew worldwide share on businesses representing about half of Company sales and about 60% of sales in the home US market. We continue to grow share in Latin America and held share in Europe and India, Middle East and Africa. We lost some share in Asia, principally in China and Japan.

As we reported at the analyst meeting in November, we are growing share on more of our category leading brands in countries where it matters most, Pampers, Tide, Gillette and Pantene in the United States for example. We have opportunities on other important businesses like Family Care in the US and in countries like China. On a constant currency basis, core earnings per share were up 6%, in line with our expectations, keeping us on track for double-digit constant currency core earnings per share growth for the fiscal year.

Virtually every currency in the world devalued versus the dollar with the Russian ruble leading the way. While we continue to make steady progress on strategic business and Company brand and product initiatives, and continue to increase and accelerate productivity savings, the progress has not been sufficient enough to offset FX. All-in sales were down 4% versus the prior year including a 5-point headwind from foreign exchange and a 1-point reduction from minor brand divestitures.

Including FX, which was a 14-percentage-point drag on the quarter, core earnings per share were $1.06, down 8% versus the prior year. Given the magnitude of the impact, I thought it might be helpful to briefly recount how FX impacts reported results. I'll use the example of the ruble, which depreciated 53% versus the dollar during the quarter, and was down 78% for the first half of the fiscal year. The declining ruble impacts reported earnings in three ways, for a total fiscal year hurt of about $550 million after-tax.

Here are the building blocks and how they break down. First, transaction impacts increased the cost of non-ruble denominated inputs. We import, as an example Gillette blades and razors into Russia from Germany. Widening of the cross-rate between the euro and the ruble increases the Russian unit cost of razors and reduces profit.

Similarly, the local cost of plastic bottles, which are denominated in euros and imported into Russia for the production of Fabric Care and Hair Care products, have increased significantly. This transaction cost impact affects all manufacturers, multi-national and local, whose materials or finished products are imported from similar sources and are similarly denominated.

We attempt to recover these cost increases through pricing when local legal requirements and market realities allow it, though there is a lag between the time a currency devalues, the costs are incurred, and the pricing is taken and executed through our channels of distribution.

Second, we need to revalue transaction-related foreign currency working capital balances. This includes the revaluation of working capital balances related to transactions between P&G legal entities that operate in different currencies. To continue the prior example, while razors produced in Germany are being transported, and are moving through the customs process into Russia, our Russian books hold a euro-denominated payable.

At the end of every quarter, working capital balances are revalued at current spot rates. Gains or losses from revaluing transactional working capital balances typically flow through SG&A and are included in core earnings per share.

The only exception is the case of a fixed exchange rate currency that is also hyperinflationary. In this case, we need to revalue not just the foreign currency transactional balances, but also the local currency working capital balances. All of these impacts are reported in non-core earnings. The Venezuelan bolivar is the only currency that currently fits this definition.

Third, income statements of foreign subsidiaries like Russia that did not use the US dollar as their functional currency are translated back to US dollars at new exchange rates. Just the Russian ruble transaction, balance sheet revaluation and translation impacts have been and are projected to be significant, at about $150 million, $100 million, and $300 million after-tax, respectively, for a total, as I said earlier, of $550 million after-tax for the year.

Across all currencies, foreign exchange hurts totaled $450 million after-tax in the December quarter, $650 million fiscal year to date, and are forecast to be a $1.4 billion after-tax profit hurt over the course of the fiscal year. This is the most significant fiscal year currency impact we have ever incurred. The currencies of six countries, Russia, the Ukraine, Venezuela, Argentina, Japan, and now Switzerland, account for over $1 billion of the $1.4 billion after-tax headwind from FX.

In the first five of these markets, we have larger businesses than nearly all of our multi-national competitors. And we have a large Swiss franc exposure from our European headquarters in Geneva. In aggregate we have more than $8.8 billion of sales in these markets, two to three times our next largest competitor. Of the $1.4 billion hurt, about 30% is from transaction, about 20% is from balance sheet revaluation, and the remaining 50% is from translation.

Because of these impacts the outlook for the fiscal year will remain challenging. We have and will continue to offset as much of this currency impact as we can through pricing and productivity cost savings. At the same time, we will continue to invest in our businesses, brands, product innovation and capabilities because it's the right thing to do for the mid and long term. We'll adjust fiscal year targets accordingly, as I'll cover when we get to guidance.

Now as these FX impacts flow through the income statement they obviously impacts margins. Core gross margin was down 20 basis points in the December quarter. Excluding foreign exchange it was up 40 basis points. Cost savings of approximately 190 basis points and 60 basis points of improvement from higher pricing were offset by 110 basis points of mix, 50 points from innovation and capacity investments, and 50 basis points from commodity cost increases.

While we're beginning to benefit from lower fuel prices, which reduced transportation costs, the costs of materials such as resin and other specialty chemicals were still higher in the December quarter than in the prior year. Pulp is also up year-on-year. If oil stays at or around current levels, these material costs headwinds should turn to tailwinds by the fourth quarter of the fiscal year.

Core SG&A costs as a percentage of sales increased about 30 basis points, excluding FX, they were down 80 basis points. 70 basis points of overhead savings and 70 basis points of marketing savings mainly from non-media cost efficiencies were more than offset by 120 basis points of foreign exchange impact and 50 basis points of organizational capability investments in R&D and sales. Productivity savings and cost of goods sold and SG&A totaled 330 basis points as we continue to meet or beat all of our productivity objectives.

Core operating margin was down 60 basis points versus the prior year including FX, and was up 120 basis points excluding FX. The effective tax rate on core earnings was 22.3%, 130 basis points above last year's rate. This keeps us on track with our fiscal year outlook of about 21%.

December quarter all-in GAAP earnings per share were $0.82 which include approximately $0.03 per share of non-core restructuring charges and a $0.06 per share benefit from earnings of the discontinued batteries and pet care operations. Also included was a $0.26 per share one-time, non-core, non-cash charge, as we explained during our analyst day in November, to adjust the carrying value of the battery business.

It was a strong cash quarter, we generated $3.4 billion in operating cash flow and $3 billion in adjusted free cash flow, with 95% adjusted free cash flow productivity. We returned $3.7 billion of cash to shareholders, $1.8 billion in dividends, and $1.9 billion in share repurchase. Fiscal year-to-date we have returned $7.9 billion to shareholders, $3.6 billion in dividends, and $4.3 billion in share repurchase.

In summary, second quarter organic sales and constant currency core earnings growth were in line with going-in expectations. Productivity savings continued at or ahead of plans with constant currency growth and operating margins well ahead of year ago. And we continued our strong track record of cash productivity and cash return to shareholders.

We're maintaining investments necessary to support our brands and product innovations. These include continuous strategic investment in breakthrough product innovations like Gillette ProGlide Flexball, and our entry into the adult incontinence category with Always Discreet, as well as investments to restore the competitive value equation of leading brands like Bounty and Charmin. We will strike what we believe to be the appropriate balance between short-term FX cost recovery and investment to support the mid- and long-term health of our business.

We will continue our efforts to focus our portfolio, to lead business model and product innovation, to become ever more productive and cost efficient, and to execute with excellence. As we announced in August, we're taking a significant and strategic step forward to streamline, simplify and strengthen the Company's business and brand portfolio.

We will become a simpler, more focused Company of 70 to 80 category-leading competitively-advantaged brands organized into about a dozen business units in four industry-based sectors. We will compete in businesses that are structurally attractive and that play to P&G strengths where we can achieve sustainable advantage.

Every brand we plan to keep is strategic with the potential to grow and create value with 70 to 80 brands are leaders in their industries, categories, or segments brand shoppers buy, consumers use and customers support. They are leaders in brand equity, awareness, trial, purchase and loyalty. They are leaders in product performance and product innovation and leaders in growth and value creation.

Within these brands, we will operate with more efficient brand product line and SKU offerings, reducing SKUs 15% to 20% over the next two years. We will create a faster growing, more profitable Company that is far simpler to operate. We have been progressing this work at a healthy pace.

In November, we announced plans to exit the Duracell business through a split transaction in which we will exchange a recapitalized Duracell Company for Berkshire Hathaway's shares of P&G stock. We expect to complete the deal in the second half of this calendar year. While we are progressing very well, those of you who have built your FY16 models assuming a July 1 closing and related share count reduction are probably a quarter or two too aggressive.

In late December, we closed the divesture of the European pet care business and respective brands. We also signed and communicated a deal to divest Camay and Zest soap brands. To date, we have divested, discontinued or consolidated 35 brands.

As we continue to strengthen our category and brand portfolio, we will focus our brand building and product innovation, support and investment against the biggest consumer and market opportunities. We are committed to be or become the brand and product innovation leader in the categories in which we compete.

Year-after-year, decade-after-decade successful brand building and product innovation have grown our categories, created entirely new categories, built our business, and have been a major source of value creation. Innovation combats commoditization, stimulates category growth, and builds the cumulative advantage of our brands over time. Our biggest business by far is Baby Care and the Pampers brand. Our biggest country is the United States.

As first reported last month at analyst day, we continue to stimulate category growth at 2% to 3% over the last year, reversing a multi-year decline. The Pampers business model that focuses on stimulating point-of-market entry demand and trade up to mom-preferred, better performing and premium-priced products like the unique Swaddlers innovation, and better performing better-value point-of-entry products from Luvs have resulted in broad and sustainable category growth that benefits retailers, suppliers, and manufacturers, and has grown share for P&G.

Our US diaper share is now 44%, up 2 points versus a year ago. We've turned a 10-point share disadvantage into an 8-point category leadership advantage over the past five years. Both Pampers and Luvs are growing share. Pampers Swaddlers share is up 3 points to an absolute category share of 12%.

We're bringing diaper pants to market. We just introduced Pampers Premium Care Pants in Russia where the [plantform] accounts for 23% of the market. Pampers Pants provide exceptional skin comfort and dryness benefits in an underwear-like design. The Russia launch is off to a very good start with shipments about 50% ahead of target.

We'll be bringing Pants to China this month and Latin America next quarter. Achieving a fair share of the global diaper pant market represents up to a $2 billion growth opportunity.

Our strategy for Fabric Care in the US, our second biggest business, is having a similar positive impact for P&G and for category growth. It begins with creating and delivering a consumer preferred mix of brands, products and values. Nearly a year ago, we introduced a strengthened Fabric Care brand and product lineup that significantly broadened consumer appeal.

Essentially, we offered shoppers a full range of brands and products priced from about $0.15 to $0.28 a laundry load, including broadened POD offerings, new and improved liquid detergent options, and Tide Simply Clean and Fresh, a preferred brand and product for consumers interested in value at an affordable price.

As a result, Tide and Gain have both grown market share over the past 52-, 26-, 13- and four-week periods. Tide now holds a 40 share. Gain is the number two brand at a 16 share. PODS have reached an 11 share of the US market and P&G's share of that segment has grown above 80.

We're seeing the first indication of category sales stability and even growth in recent weeks which is good for retailers, suppliers, and manufacturers. This is the first category growth in seven years. We continue to expand PODS around the world and to developed and developing markets, and we expect units [in those detergents] to reach $1.5 billion in retail sales this fiscal year.

We're following a similar strategy in the fabric conditioner category, a smaller, but even faster growing core strategic business. The business model stimulates category growth by trading more consumers into the discretionary fabric conditioner product category be a meaningful product like scent beads, and liquid products that deliver better, functional and sensory benefits.

Beads alone will deliver $400 million in global sales this fiscal year. We continue to grow our Downy and Lenor brands in established markets, while we expand selectively into new countries where the size of the prize and the value creation return are attractive. P&G fabric conditioners are growing at about a 7% compound average growth rate, approaching $3 billion in global sales.

We are growing the grooming category, and P&G's share behind the Gillette Flexball innovation. The male razor segment is up 17% on a unit volume basis over the last six months. Gillette's razor volume share was up 7% in the December quarter. As expected, we are beginning to see strong razor sales translate into an improved blade or cartridge share, which was up 2 points in the December quarter.

We're expanding Flexball right now to Europe, the Middle East, and Africa. And we're extending this breakthrough to women with Venus Swirl which began shipping in the US this month. Women and men are telling us that they significantly prefer these products. It looks like Flexball may be the biggest most consumer-obvious new shaving system innovation ever introduced by Gillette.

Our Hair Care business is now growing share in both the US and China. Pantene has now grown share seven months in a row in the US and Head & Shoulders is up about 0.5 point in both markets. Both brands are responding to improved products and better brand building. These brands in this category have a full pipeline of product innovation that will come to market this year and in the years ahead.

Pantene is shipping its new product line with formulations that work from the inside out to deliver on Pantene's promise of delivering the most beautiful, healthy hair so you shine. Head & Shoulders new product line delivers 100% dandruff-free results and an improved in-use experience that enables consumers to feel the product working instantly.

We're accelerating the growth of the adult incontinence category with Always Discreet. Women are not fully satisfied with current category product offerings. One in three women over 18 years old suffers from incontinence, but only one in nine uses an incontinence product. Always Discreet pad and pant-style offerings deliver significantly better fit and protection from Always, a brand that women trust and prefer.

We begin shipments of Always Discreet in the UK in July and the US, Canada and France in August. In the UK, the adult incontinence category is growing double digits, roughly 50% faster since our entry. In the US, the category growth rate has more than doubled to around 9%, and our shipments are running ahead of target in both markets with value share a little over 7% in each.

We're continuing the expansion of Always Discreet with launches in Germany, Switzerland and Austria this quarter. We are committed to be the innovation leader in our categories, to drive category growth and the growth of our businesses. And we're increasing investment where we have consumer-preferred brands and products.

In addition to innovation, productivity will continue to drive total shareholder return. The best companies in any industry find a way to lead both innovation and productivity. We are turning productivity into a core strength at P&G making it a systemic, enduring value creation [pillar] alongside innovation.

We have significantly accelerated and will significantly exceed the $10 billion cost savings goal we set 2.5 years ago. We are driving cost of goods savings well above the original target run rate of $1.2 billion a year, with $1.6 billion of savings this fiscal year. We expect to improve manufacturing productivity by at least 6% again this year, reducing staffing even as we add capacity and start up new production modules.

We've begun work on what is probably the biggest supply chain redesign in the Company's history. We're transforming our distribution network in the United States, consolidating customer shipments into fewer distribution centers. These centers are strategically located closer to key customers in key population centers, enabling 80% of the business to be within one day of the store shelf and the shopper.

All six of the new mixing centers will be operational by the end of February, on or ahead of schedule, and we expect to complete the conversion out of legacy locations this calendar year. The distribution network projects will allow both P&G and our retail partners to optimize inventory levels, while still improving service and on-shelf availability and reducing in-store out of stocks.

We have established a $1 billion to $2 billion value creation target from the global supply chain reinvention effort. We are targeting to deliver $400 million to $600 million in annual cost savings building to this level over the next three to five years. These savings are incremental to the $6 billion of cost of goods savings we originally communicated and are on track to exceed. We expect additional top and bottom Iine benefits from improved service levels.

We continue to invest strategically in additional capacity for critical developing markets. And we continue to rationalize our manufacturing processes so that common, simpler, and more global standard making and packing platforms support accelerated product innovation at lower cash, capital, and operating costs. This enables not only better and cheaper, but also more agile, flexible, and faster.

We have reduced non-manufacturing, or overhead enrollment, by nearly 18%, 80% more than we initially envisioned when we launched our restructuring program. We continue to evolve the organization design so that is business focused starting with consumers and customers, and so that it is simpler, more effective, more responsive, and more efficient.

We've organized around industry-based sectors. We're streamlining and [de-duplicating] the work of the business units and selling operations. We've consolidated four brand building functions into one.

Each of these changes reduces complexity and each creates clear accountability for performance and results. A more focused portfolio of brands and businesses will enable further changes. We should be close to the high end of our estimated 16% to 22% non-manufacturing enrollment reduction range by the end of this fiscal year, more than a year ahead of plan.

We have additional opportunity to improve marketing efficiency in both media and non-media areas while increasing overall marketing effectiveness and the strength of our programs. We continue to drive marketing productivity through an optimized mix driven by new, more efficient digital media. We have quietly strengthened and invested in all of our digital capabilities including mobile, search and social with a wide range of partners. More than 30% of our working media is now digital.

We have developed proprietary systems to target digital media more precisely and more efficiently. Three of our brand communications designed specifically for digital were among the top 10 You Tube viewings in 2014. These efficiencies are enabling us to maintain strong media weights despite the cost pressure we are facing from foreign exchange.

We're focused on driving productivity improvement up and down the income statement and across the balance sheet, disciplined working capital management, strong execution of our supply chain financing program, and the scarcity mentality and capital spending are driving cash flow results.

One of the productivity-related questions we often hear concerns developing market margins. We are growing constant currency earnings margins in developing markets. Constant currency earnings grew two times faster than sales in 2013, four times faster than sales in 2014, and are forecast to grow four times faster than sales again this year.

Over those three years, we will have grown constant currency earnings 12%, 26%, and 26%, respectively. Even with the unprecedented FX impact, we're making progress. Our margin all-in in Latin America is forecast to be up more than 1 point this year. In the BRIC markets, Brazil and India should each be up about 4 points, and China should hold its industry leading margin.

Russia is forecast to be down a few points because the pricing intended to recover the FX impacts will not be fully in place until the spring. In total, though, we're forecasting developing market margins including FX to be up about 60 basis points for the year.

The final priority area I'll touch on this morning is execution, the only strategy our consumers and customers actually see. For many of our big brands, building trial is still a huge opportunity. For example, repurchase rates on unit dose laundry detergents are over 50%, but trial rates are barely double-digits.

We have a number of programs underway to increase trial on our brands. In several categories in many countries, we have an opportunity to improve coverage, dedication and in-store merchandising of our brands. We're investing selectively in dedicated sales coverage of merchandising to improve execution for shoppers in-store and online. This should lead to improved distribution, shelving, merchandising and pricing execution to consistently win at the first moment of [truth.] We're also continuing to grow our e-Commerce business with omnichannel and pure-play etailers as shoppers evolve their shopping preferences and habits.

As we look beyond the January/March quarter, we are hopeful that industry and Company tailwinds will begin to improve. Productivity should continue to grow. The benefits from portfolio strengthening and simplification should continue to build. Pricing should help. Oil-based commodity costs should become a tailwind by the fourth quarter.

Beyond the cost/benefit lower energy prices will hopefully become a stimulant to demand in petroleum importing countries. The world's top 15 oil importing countries, which include the US, China, Japan and many Western European markets, account for nearly two-thirds of P&G's global sales, and an even higher share of profits. Interest rates should remain low. And we hold out hope for a sequentially stronger economy in the United States, our largest market.

But there will continue to be headwinds. Foreign exchange is, obviously, at the top of the list and has a significant short-term impact. Pricing to recover that impact, taken by both P&G and other industry players, is likely to result in some market contraction and reduced consumption in several countries. Lower commodity costs will create a consumption headwind in energy producing countries. And political instability will continue to result on some ongoing amount of market level disruption.

In a time of unprecedented currency devaluation that impacts our Company more than any other in our industry, it's important to stay balanced. We need to balance doing what's right for the short, mid and long term. We need to balance the focus on delivering operating cash flow in the short term and continuing to deliver good returns for shareholders with continuing to invest in our businesses, brands, products, capabilities and people for the mid- and long-term health of the Company.

We are maintaining our forecast for organic sales growth of low- to mid-single-digits for the fiscal year. We delivered 2% organic sales growth in the first half of the year, and we could see a modest acceleration in the second half. Pricing should be a larger contributor to sales growth in the second half as price increases are more fully reflected in our results. We are seeing positive trends in big core businesses like US Baby Care, Fabric Care and Grooming and Hair Care.

And we're continuing to expand several important product innovations, pants, PODS, beads, Flexball and Swirl, upgraded hair care products, Always Discreet. We're also maintaining our outlook for double-digit constant currency core earnings per share growth for the fiscal year. We expect foreign exchange to have a 12-point impact on core earnings per share growth for the year. This is more than double what we had estimated last quarter and more than five times the impact we expected at the beginning of the fiscal year.

Including FX, we now expect core earnings per share to be in line to down low-single-digits versus last year core earnings per share of $4.09. We are now forecasting all-in sales to be down 3% to 4% for the fiscal year. This includes a 5-point drag from foreign exchange and a 1-point impact from minor brand divestitures. We expect all-in GAAP earnings per share to be down mid-teens versus the fiscal year -- prior fiscal year. Essentially all of the year-to-year reduction in GAAP earnings per share is due to the $0.58 of one-time, non-cash battery impairments.

In total, current year GAAP earnings per share includes $0.67 per share of non-core items. In addition to impairments, the other main items are $0.20 per share of restructuring costs and about $0.14 of gains in discontinued operations from the combination of the Duracell and pet businesses. We're currently forecasting 96% adjusted free cash flow productivity, above guidance of at least 90%.

We are maintaining our outlook for cash return to shareholders. We plan to return cash to share owners through dividend payments of about $7 billion, and share repurchase in the range of $5 billion to $7 billion, $10 billion to $12 billion all-in. This forecasting guidance range assumes mid-January spot rates for foreign exchange. Further, significant currency weakness, including Venezuela, is not anticipated within our guidance range.

Our outlook is based on current market growth rates, which we are monitoring closely, especially in markets where we taking large price increases to offset currency impacts. We also continue to monitor unrest in several markets in the Middle East, Russia and the Ukraine, and we continue to closely monitor markets like Venezuela and Argentina where pricing controls, import restrictions, and access to dollars can present risk.

On the flip side, our guidance does not reflect some potential tailwinds. Our results can improve if currencies ease, if markets begin to expand in a sustainable way, or if US economic growth accelerates.

There are a few things you should keep in mind as you construct your models for the second half of the year. Our organic sales comps ease a bit in the back half of the year, and we're taking significant pricing to offset foreign exchange impacts. We expect significant top and bottom line headwinds from foreign exchange in the back half of the year, including a large negative impact from balance sheet revaluation related to the Swiss franc in the March quarter. There is also a quarterly translation hit to earnings as we are operationally net short to Swiss franc due to the significant local cost structure related to our Europe and India, Middle East, and Africa headquarters in Geneva.

Productivity savings will build as the year progresses and we expect sequential improvement in commodity costs as we go through the remainder of the year. Stepping back, we're not only investing in our brands and products, but also in critical Company capabilities that will enable much better consumer and customer responsiveness with systems that are more agile, faster, better and cheaper. We have talked about the supply chain, the overall goal is a seamless and synchronized flow of information and product with shoppers, customers, retailers and etailers.

Our strategies continue to sharpen. Our category and brand business models continue to improve. Our product innovation pipeline continues to fill. Our productivity yield continues to grow with several more years of significant cash and cost savings ahead.

We are operationalizing plans more consistently and executing them more broadly and reliably. We continue to invest strategically in additional capacity for critical developing markets. And we continue to rationalize our manufacturing processes, so that common, simpler and more globally standard making and packing platforms support accelerated product innovation at a lower cash, capital and operating costs.

We continue to evolve the organization design so that it is business focused, starting with consumers and customers, simpler more effective, more responsive and more efficient. We continue to invest selectively in sales coverages and merchandising to improve execution for shoppers in stores and online. And we continue to invest in product innovation technologies and product initiative acceleration.

Through this transformation, we are creating a more in touch, agile, coordinated, and integrated organization that puts winning with the consumer first. We are sharpening our strategies and business models. We are operationalizing plans and executing with more consistency and excellence. These are the choices and capabilities that enable balanced growth and value creation in the mid and long term as we work our way through the currency devaluations in the short term.

That concludes our prepared remarks for this morning. As a reminder, business segment information is provided in our press release and will be available in slides which we posted on our website, www.pg.com, following the call. With that, I'd be happy to take questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions)

Wendy Nicholson from Citi.

WENDY NICHOLSON, ANALYST, CITI INVESTMENT RESEARCH: Hi, good morning. My question has to do with the multiplier effect between the currency pressure on your top line and your bottom line because it's just so much bigger than we see at any other company.

And my question is how much of that is going to go away, and this is sort of a long-term strategic issue, how much that is going to go away as you get your new plants and new manufacturing facilities online in emerging markets? Or is that just a structural thing where we're never going to have more three razors and blades plants and so we are always going to see a disproportionate, significantly disproportionate impact on earnings? Thanks.

JON MOELLER: Clearly, as it is apparent you understand from your question, the difference between the top line and bottom line impact of FX is driven by sourcing and where product is being manufactured and imported to. And it also has to do with where we are disproportionately sized versus our competitors just in terms of our business footprint. We are disproportionately impacted due to our business size and market position in countries that have seen some of the highest levels of devaluations.

In Venezuela, Russia, the Ukraine and Japan, we have significant businesses, and we estimate that in those markets our top and bottom impacts are more than double our top multi-national competitors. And then, we're also importing significant amount of product into markets like Venezuela, into markets like Argentina, into markets like Russia, and into Japan. We are working, as you rightly point out, to further localize our manufacturing supply chain over time and that should help as we go forward.

We're building roughly 20 new manufacturing facilities, all of which are in developing markets, which are the ones that have been most impacted by foreign exchange. As we do that, and even with our existing manufacturing platforms, we're working to localize our suppliers with us. As I mentioned in the example on the ruble, this is both a cost in terms of importing finished product but also importing materials.

And the more that we can localize both of those components of the supply chain the better off we are going to be in terms of being operationally hedged to FX. The issue will never go away in its entirety. Again, I think you mentioned a very good example on blades and razors. We are not going to have 180 blades and razors manufacturing facilities, but we are localizing to a greater extent even that supply chain with significant investments we've made, for example, in Mexico. So, hopefully, this will continue to reduce as we move forward, but it is not likely to ever completely disappear.

OPERATOR: Chris Ferrara with Wells Fargo.

CHRIS FERRARA, ANALYST, WELLS FARGO SECURITIES, LLC: Hey, thanks. Jon, I guess, obviously, FX drives the need for pricing, and I think you said you were going to be more aggressively taking pricing in the back half. But, I guess, the question is with crude at $45 is there a risk that we get into a situation like 2008, 2009 where you get price more than peers and ended up losing share?

JON MOELLER: Fair question, and that's, obviously, something we're going to watch very carefully. The good news, if you want to call it that, is in markets where the most significant pricing is needed, the currency impacts far overwhelm the energy cost impacts. So, again, going back to our example of Russia with 78% currency devaluation, we might not be able to recover all of that, and certainly we're going to have to take into account both competitive consumer dynamics which will reflect the commodity cost environment, as well. So we'll watch that carefully.

That's also why, as I talk about the efforts to offset FX, I always mention, as well, productivity and cost savings. There is going to have to be a higher component of that this time around for the reason you cite, as well as for the simple reason that our euro and yen domiciled competitors don't have as much of a headwind as we have. So we're going to have to approach this very deliberately, very carefully. But still I think there is a significant opportunity for pricing.

OPERATOR: John Faucher with JPMorgan.

JOHN FAUCHER, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Yes, good morning, thank you. Want to talk a little bit about the organic revenue growth guidance here, and you talked about an improving trend in the second quarter. Can you talk about what you are seeing? Can you give us any sort of clue in terms what you're seeing in the third?

And then, going back to -- looking at this, why not just take it down to low-singles from that standpoint? Not that I think many people are pricing [in mid] but it seems a little overly optimistic. And then, sort of looking at Chris's question here, what is the outlook as you look at things getting better sequentially in terms of the volume versus pricing breakdown? Is it all going to be pricing as things get better in the back half of the year, or do you think you can get volumes improving? Thanks.

JON MOELLER: First of all, low-single-digit organic sales growth is, as you know, covered within our guidance range. And we're going to have to see -- there's both tailwinds and headwinds going forward here. We have seen some pickup in the US market, as I mentioned in our prepared remarks, volume was up 2 points in developed markets in the quarter, and we have seen an increase in the market growth rate in the US.

And if that continues, that's, obviously, our biggest market and our most profitable market, that could be a real benefit to the top line. We have several businesses where we have admittedly struggled recently, but where we believe the fix is right around the corner. I mentioned in our prepared remarks the Family Care business. That's a big business for us in North America where we've been losing share.

We've adjusted pricing on that business and are starting to see both volume and sales respond. So, hopefully, that picks up for us.

Another big business that I didn't mention in the prepared remarks is Mexico. If we look at sales in Mexico, we're down almost 20% on the quarter, it constitutes almost a full point of organic sales growth. So were it not for Mexico we would've rounded to 3%.

And the driver there is a combination of three things. There's a consumption tax increase which was put in place January a year ago. So that's annualizing, the consumption impacts of that are annualizing. We also took pricing to deal with the devalue in peso, and we changed some of our trade terms to increase pricing transparency in the marketplace. All of that should begin to annualize here very shortly.

So if we can continue to make progress, if we can continue the growth that we have on some of our big brands, if we can address a few of the admitted challenges that we have, I mentioned China as another example, there's no reason we couldn't get up into -- or let's just say it this way, pick up another point of growth. And then we'll have to see what happens as we price, as Chris mentioned and as you have rightly mentioned, to market sizes in some of these other markets.

I would say quite honestly there is more uncertainty on the top line been than there has been in some time just because of all these variables. But there is both positive variables and variables to watch out for.

OPERATOR: Lauren Lieberman with Barclays.

LAUREN LIEBERMAN, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Thanks, good morning. Two things. One was just to clarify on that last point, Jon, that when you say pick up another point of growth that you meant another point in the back half not another point on the full-year from the 2% run rate?

JON MOELLER: Yes.

LAUREN LIEBERMAN: Okay, perfect. I don't want to get cut off, I'm scared of the operator cutting me off if I stop talking. The other thing was on the other promotional environment in the US, Unilever's comments were pretty direct around their quote savings, be it on commodities or, obviously, currency benefits being reinvested in passed back to the consumer.

So I was curious about your views of the promotional environment, particularly in the US, and then also specifically looking at Beauty. It just feels like there's -- this is anecdotal -- but it feels like the year has started off in a very, very promotional way. I was just curious about, particularly on Beauty, that would be great. Thanks.

JON MOELLER: Okay. I'll start way macro and I'll get down to micro including Beauty. In general, as you know, promotion is the last place we'd like in most cases to spend a dollar. We would rather spend it on equity or innovation. And if you just look at the drivers of our top line growth over time, I think it bears that out.

So in the quarter we just completed, pricing inclusive of promotion was a 1-point benefit to the top line. It's been a benefit for 16 consecutive quarters, it's been a benefit for 10 consecutive years. So that doesn't mean that we won't have individual product categories that are up and down at any given time given both the trial needs of innovation we are bringing to the market and the competitive situation, but broadly that is not our game.

Reflecting just on the US market, so the first point of your question, if we look at the indices for percentage of volume sold on promotion over the last four quarters, the indices sequentially have been a one-to-one -- this is all business, so it is category business not just P&G, 101, 103, 101 and 98. So broadly, that's not indicative of an environment that's heavily promotional. Now, again, within individual product categories, of course, there are differences.

And to be fair, those figures that I just provided you don't include couponing. But they don't include couponing in the base period either. So they are kind of free of that.

On P&G Beauty, we did increase promotion a little bit, particularly on Hair Care behind some of the products I mentioned that are driving share growth on Pantene and Head & Shoulders. It's very important, particularly on Pantene, given some of the struggle that we went through prior to the last seven months that we give opportunities to consumers to experience and re-experience and retry our brands. So there has been some level of promotional increase, but, again, most of our spending is on equity building and innovation and will remain that way.

OPERATOR: Olivia Tong with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.

OLIVIA TONG, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Hi, good morning. Thanks, Jon. On M&A and the pairing down of your portfolio, do the current market dynamics change your thinking in any way around brands or businesses that might be up for divestiture or harvesting including the timing of [sen mood]? And conversely, as you speak with potential acquirers, I suspect some of them might be overseas, without going into specifics, have your discussions been impacted in any way as [map] changes for that?

JON MOELLER: We view the strategic move we're making on the portfolio as a long-term strategic move. The impact of one year in FX, either positive or negative, doesn't dramatically change that. And in my conversations with potential buyers, they seem to be similarly oriented. They're looking at longer periods of time.

You can imagine that there are specific situations where, let's say, you have a large component of a business that happens to be operating in Russia, or the Ukraine, or name a couple markets, I wouldn't say that it affects buyers' strategic interests, but it affects, obviously, the tone of the overall conversation, as it should.

But I view that really as on the margin. On the whole, as the year's evolved and as the currency situation has worsened, honestly, I can't think of one conversation that we've been holding with potential buyers that has changed dramatically in terms of its tone as a result of currency. So I think we're full steam ahead.

OPERATOR: Dara Mohsenian with Morgan Stanley. Dara, please go ahead. Your line is open.

DARA MOHSENIAN, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Sorry, I was on mute there. Jon, you highlighted the recent volume pickup in the US, and it looks clearly like retail sales growth has accelerated the last couple of months in the scanner data including through mid-January released today. That being said, the two-year averages look relatively stable given easier comps the last couple of months in the scanner data. I just wanted to get a sense from you on how much of the recent US top line rebound, in your mind, is due to a more sustainable US consumer recovery or is it more easier comps?

And then, second, on pricing, can you give us a bit more granularity on how much of the FX pressure this year you think you can eventually recover through pricing? And also, from a commodity standpoint, given that it's expected to turn to a tailwind by Q4, do you expect to get a margin windfall at some point looking out to FY16 or do you think that will be priced back to the marketplace? Thanks.

JON MOELLER: Sorry, I was struggling there to remember all components of this. I'm going to start from the back and go to the front. On commodities, if oil stayed at current prices, we would expect an annualized benefit of about $600 million before tax. That should start flowing through in the fourth quarter. If you look at the combination of our contractual lags and our inventories, on average they are six to seven weeks, so the recent moves should start coming through really by the very end of this quarter, but more fully in the fourth quarter.

And we will just have to see what happens in terms of what competitors do relative to pricing. Having the FX issues at the same time, though, directionally moves us in a position of expecting more pricing rather than less. But you're right to point it out as something that we need to watch.

Historically, in FX moves like this, not identical to this because this is one of the bigger ones we've ever seen, but historically, we've been able to recover over time about 50% to two-thirds of the impact through pricing, and then we get the balance through productivity savings. My sense is we're going to have to move that balance and maybe this time we will get 40% or 50%. We'll see.

We're going to have to depend more on productivity savings to get there. The good news is we've got a very strong productivity program that we have visibility on for a couple of years going out. So that's how I look at pricing in general.

On your question on the US, of how much of that is just better comps and how much of its market, again, I'd just point to the market growth rates which are up about 0.5 point in the US. So at least that portion of it is due to the market. And then I mentioned that we are holding or building share in businesses representing more than 60% of sales. So there is an element there of share growth, as well, all of that combined with the easier comps driving the data.

OPERATOR: Bill Schmidt with Deutsche Bank.

BILL SCHMIDT, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Hi, good morning, guys.

JON MOELLER: Good morning, Bill.

BILL SCHMIDT: Three questions. The first is there a concrete turnaround plan in China? Because it seems like it's been two or three years now with share losses in a lot of big categories, and I know you guys understand that there is a problem there, but I haven't really heard anything concretely what you are going to do to turn it around.

And then, on the divestitures, I know you said 35 brands have been sold. Can you tell us what percentage of the 10% of sales you're done with there?

And then, the last one, which is more technical, how big magnitude-wise is going to be the Swiss franc impact in the March quarter? Thanks.

JON MOELLER: Again, I'll start with the last one. There should be about an $80 million after-tax balance sheet revaluation impact from the Swiss franc in the third quarter, and then we will have the translation issue, as well. As I mentioned, we're short the franc overall and that's driven by the fact that we have a very large cost base there. Our European and Eastern European, Middle East, Africa headquarters are there, and Switzerland is a small country, so we have proportionately less volume. So that will be an impact from a balance sheet evaluation in the third quarter and from a translation standpoint in both the third and the fourth quarters.

On China, we've built that business. We've grown about 50% over the last four years. It's now our second largest business in both sales and profit. There are two things that we are working to improve in China. One, quite frankly, is the amount of price transparency that exists in the marketplace.

I think the market in general has become over the last year or so, last two years, a little bit too promotional in nature which tends to happen when you have major changes in consumption patterns. But it's created a degree of opacity in terms of consumers and customers understanding the true value equation that exists and we need to fix that.

I think in general the industry is working to fix that, and that's why you see some of the impacts that you've seen from some of the other manufacturers in terms of their results in China, as well. And I would say that we're in the fifth inning in terms of getting that squared around.

And then as I mentioned in several categories discussions previously, there is just a massive opportunity in China as that market [premiumizes]. If you look at that market by price tier, the premium and super premium price tier, so the top two price tiers now represent 50% of consumption in the market, so across competitors. And those tiers are growing at 11%. The balance of the market is flat.

In some categories, we haven't followed the consumer as quickly as we needed to up that price ladder. That's part of the issue on Olay. We're not yet where we want to be, for instance, on Pampers. Though, as I mentioned, the premium pant product coming to market this month will help significantly.

So those are really two of the areas generally that we are focused on, on dealing with China. But, again, there is huge opportunity in that market

OPERATOR: Steve Powers from UBS.

STEVE POWERS, ANALYST, UBS: Yes, hi, good morning. Jon, a question on Beauty, maybe following up a little bit about your comments there just on Olay. I guess, it continues to be a work in progress with organic growth negative despite successes like Pantene domestically. Can you talk just a little bit more about the key initiatives there, and what is likely to change versus stay the same given David Taylor's new appointment to that segment? Thanks.

JON MOELLER: I mentioned the progress on Pantene and the Hair Care portfolio broadly which we are very encouraged by. On Olay, we actually did fairly well in the US in the last quarter. I think we were up about 3%, John, can get that number right for you afterwards, but I think that's pretty close. But we're still working in several other parts of the world, as I mentioned, to increase the salience of the brand in terms of both the channels, the price tiers, and the product benefits that consumers are looking for in skin care products.

And that's work that takes some time. I would say we're still in the early days there. We have people working on that business who have deep experience in skin care, have been associated historically with the better days on Olay. And so we continue to be very hopeful that will come around.

David, frankly, brings a new set of eyes which can only help, and has tremendous brand building experience across many of our product categories. He's managed in the beauty business before. He managed our hair care business in China when he and I were working in China together in the mid-90s, and so that's only good.

OPERATOR: Nik Modi, RBC Capital Markets.

NIK MODI, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Yes, good morning, guys. Most of my questions were asked but I was curious, Jon, if you can talk about pricing analytics at P&G and over the last couple of years if you've seen an evolution or increased sophistication, more accuracy, because if you go back the last couple of years on the pricing, it really led to a multi-quarter kind of string of share losses. So I'm just curious if you kind of sharpened some of the analytics on the pricing side? Thanks.

JON MOELLER: Yes, the first thing I would say, Nik, is the primary metric that we're looking at as we analyze pricing choices, both up and down, is value creation, and that may mean, and I don't want to overstate this, that there may be such situations where it's right to accept some share loss to get the structural economics to an attractive place in our brands. In terms of, though, knowing if value creation is the primary metric, whether we are delivering that or not on a real-time basis, we have been constantly working to improve our analytical capability.

I won't say that we are all the way to where we need to be and I mentioned that's an investment in capabilities. And this is one of the area, analytics in general, that we are investing in. But simple things like our sales force being in the field as opposed to being in the office working on brand work will only help in terms of understanding what's happening on a real-time basis.

Also, as I mentioned, I think in response to John's question, we're going to be depending just as much on productivity as we are pricing to try to deal with this FX issue. And that was not the case in the years that John mentioned. We didn't have the productivity program and certainly didn't have it at the level that we have it now. So we were more dependent on pricing as a way to restore those structural economics.

But this is, obviously, something that we have to stay close to, as you rightly point out, and as several others have, and is something that we will. We will not get it right every time. We cannot predict competitive behavior, we can't completely predict consumer behavior. And so there will be some steps forward and some steps backward. But, hopefully, the net is forward as it has been historically.

OPERATOR: Javier Escalante with Consumer Edge Research.

JAVIER ESCALANTE, ANALYST, CONSUMER EDGE RESEARCH: Hi, good morning, everyone. My question is on Beauty, particularly on Prestige. It seems like it led the decline of the [GVU] this quarter, and more broadly when you talk about the portfolio you basically said it's structurally attractive categories that play to Proctor's strength. And I wonder whether you would say that channel source specific Prestige Beauty and professional hair care do you think that plays to Proctor's strength or not? Thank you.

JON MOELLER: Thanks, Javier. A large part of the trend in Prestige is driven by a very strong base period where we had a very strong innovation program. So that's primarily what's going on there. I think your question on fit with P&G's core capabilities and strengths is a good question and an appropriate question. I'll just provide a quick refresher on those capabilities and strengths because they do provide, along with structural attractiveness and track record, the screens through which we look at our portfolio strategy.

And those core strengths are branding, innovation, consumer understanding, go-to-market, and benefiting where appropriate from our scale. And I've given the example before on our pharmaceuticals business where if you go across those capabilities, consumer understanding not terribly relevant, brand building, advertising, only legally permissible in three countries in the world, innovation challenged just because of the model in the industry, go-to-market, grocery stores, mass merchants, doctors.

That's a clear example of a business that doesn't benefit from our core capabilities. Our job in that case becomes to find somebody who does have those capabilities, who can create more value than we can create, and then monetize some of that value for our shareholders. We have gotten out of businesses because of channel fit in the past. I would argue that the pet care choice was in part related to that.

There was a specialty pet channel, there was an influencer channel with both the breeders and veterinarians that we did not have broader Company expertise in. So those are the kinds of things that we will be looking at as we finalize portfolio choices.

OPERATOR: Michael Steib with Credit Suisse.

MICHAEL STEIB, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Good morning, Jon. My question relates to how you expect mix to impact earnings going forward in the second half in particular? It was, obviously, a tailwind on the top line growth this quarter but a drag on gross margin. I wonder why that is and how you expect that to drive earnings going forward?

JON MOELLER: Basically, in a scenario where we have relatively similar growth rates between developed and developing markets and where we have relatively similar growth rates across our product segments, so in other words, Beauty grows faster than it did in the last quarter, the mix impact is not significant.

In quarters where one of those two things aren't true, so where developing markets grow disproportionately, or where our higher margin businesses like Beauty don't grow as fast as the rest of the portfolio, we will have a mix impact on the bottom line. And so it really comes down to your estimation of those two drivers going forward as to what the mix impact is going to be.

OPERATOR: Connie Maneaty with BMO Capital.

CONNIE MANEATY, ANALYST, BMO CAPITAL MARKETS: Good morning. I do have a question on Venezuela. I appreciated your commentary about all the components in FX impact. And in that context, I'm wondering why you're still reporting your results at the official rate given where SICAD 2 is and where the parallel rate is? So can you quantify for us the move of your Venezuela results from SICAD 1 to SICAD 2?

JON MOELLER: We provide all of our exposures in our disclosures because we know this is an important item for investors. So you can get there -- I haven't actually done the math, but you can. The reason that we continue to translate our results at a combination of SICAD 1, which is 11 to 12, and then the 6.3 official rate is simply because those are the rates at which we're transacting business in Venezuela.

We're getting dollars at those rates for imports of both finished product and raw materials. We're told that dividends and royalties would be paid, for example, at the SICAD 1 rate. Right now, as I think you may be aware, the government of Venezuela's working through, as I understand it, modifications to the exchange regime. I don't have transparency or visibility into that. Obviously, we will look at that and understand really what's the rate at which we're going to be transacting business, and that's the rate that we should be translating our results at.

Importantly, I'm in no way suggesting that others will come to different outcomes or are doing anything that's wrong or incorrect. For them it should reflect what rates they are transacting business at.

OPERATOR: Joe Altobello with Raymond James.

JOE ALTOBELLO, ANALYST, RAYMOND JAMES: Thanks, good morning. Just two quick ones, I guess. First, how much of the pricing you've taken so far or announced to the trade has been matched by competitors? And here, I'm specifically talking about the developed world not developing. And then, secondly, was there anything unusual in the month of December organic growth of 5% because previous to that, if you look at October/November it looks like your flat to modestly down going into that month, and I would imagine there's probably some pre-buying or pull forward ahead of some price increases? Thanks.

JON MOELLER: Joe, broadly, without going into detail because we can't do that, our pricing is going to be centered on the developing markets. There's not a lot of developed market pricing that is planned. As a result, and because of the timing of certain moves, it is still early days in terms of understanding both what the competitive and what the consumer dynamics are going to be.

Maybe we will have an update for you at CAGNY, but even that will probably be too soon. We're in the early days there, but, again, the main point is most of this we focused on developing markets not on developed markets.

OPERATOR: Bill Chappell with SunTrust.

BILL CHAPPELL, ANALYST, SUNTRUST ROBINSON HUMPHREY: Thanks, good morning. Just actually following up on Bill Schmidt's question, which I'm not sure I got the answer to, percentage of sales that the 35 brands that you've divested or consolidated represents of kind of that total 10%, and whether that 10% number is actually change as you have started to look at the portfolio a little bit closer?

And then, also, with regard, I didn't really understand what you're saying in terms of the timing of the shares coming back in a little bit later from the Duracell divesture, so maybe can you help me understand that too?

JON MOELLER: Yes, all helpful, and thanks for reminding me of the other part of Bill's question. In terms of -- you know what the Duracell sales are, you know what the pet sales are, they have all been moved to discontinued operations, and we've given you the amounts of those moves that have been made. And those are the two largest. And then, there's a bunch of smaller things. I think you can get pretty close to an estimate with a little bit of thumb in the air on where we are at.

The number is not a static number, it does change. We have said very clearly that we intend to be -- that we intend to create value as we exit businesses. It doesn't make any sense to exit a business if we can't create value in the process. And so by definition, we haven't made definitive choices on what goes and what stays as we're still working to negotiate terms and see if we can, in fact, create sufficient value in some instances.

So that's not a static figure. That was a figure that was designed to get us close. Oh shares, thank you. I mentioned that -- as I've read several of your updates from the sell side, we, obviously, haven't given you a lot of direction other than saying sometime in the second half we will close the transaction with Berkshire Hathaway on Duracell and retire those shares.

And so I've seen a number of the estimates, understandably, picking different time points and one of them being July 1. And my only point is while we're making good progress, I don't expect that this will be complete by July 1. I do expect it will be completed in the second half of the calendar year, but I think July 1 is aggressive as you model the retiring of those shares.

OPERATOR: Ali Dibadj with Sanford C. Bernstein.

ALI DIBADJ, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & COMPANY, INC.: Hey, guys. So believe it or not I still have a question around FX, and I get that you're guiding everything organically effectively the same and your attributing the guide down to FX alone. But, I guess, why is that good enough? So why aren't we seeing things like some of your peers are doing that's more aggressive internally to offset some of those impacts? We've talked a little bit about pricing, but productivity, it doesn't seem like it's ramping up, at least it doesn't look like it yet.

It certainly looks like your investing in some areas in SG&A, and I'm certainly mindful of the word that you used earlier -- balance. But what are you doing internally to pull in the belt a little bit more given the headwinds from currency that you are facing?

JON MOELLER: Good question. First of all, I think if we step back and look at constant currency earnings growth that we're forecasting for the year and guiding to, it's double-digit. So that's not an insignificant number. And I get asked just as frequently, and I think appropriately, if that isn't too much, as I do if that isn't too little. And it all comes back to this balance point.

If you look at our competitors, I mentioned in response to Wendy's question, whether we like it or not, our impacts from FX are more significant than some of our competitors simply because of our footprint. And, obviously, we have others that are, as you know, either euro or yen domiciled or have largely a US focus of their footprint. So even with that double-digit constant currency earnings per share growth, we end up at or slightly below a year ago. We will pull forward -- we will execute any smart cost savings program.

I mentioned the fact that we are going to be close to the top end of our range on overhead reduction by the end of this year. That's more than a year ahead of pace. And, again, is at the top of a 6-point range. So we are continuing to move pretty aggressively. But as you rightly point out, and as we have tried to communicate, we need to do that in a balanced way.

We just have so many things that present opportunity, both in the way that we operate, in our long-term cost structure, in delighting consumers with some of our brands, products, and technologies that it would be the wrong answer to pull back from those. So we will continue to be balanced. We will continue to be diligent and aggressive in terms of the identification of savings opportunities.

Another one, for example, that we've talked about, granted it doesn't happen all this year, but getting those six mixing centers set up and operational by the end of February, that was acceleration of a project that we did specifically to help deal with the current reality. And we'll look for more opportunities like that.

OPERATOR: Jon Andersen with William Blair.

JON ANDERSEN, ANALYST, WILLIAM BLAIR & COMPANY: Thanks for taking the question. Jon, I think you mentioned earlier that volume actually declined in developing markets in the quarter. I'm wondering if you could just talk a little bit about that, is that a reflection of further slowing in consumption in developing markets? Or do you attribute it to this FX-related pricing that you discussed and what your expectations are there going forward?

JON MOELLER: Thanks, Jon. Quarter-to-quarter there was no significant change in developing market growth, from a market standpoint. The one exception to that, which is very difficult to sort out, is Russia, which, when you look at it, actually the growth rate increased. But I think that's in large part purchase ahead of pricing that people know are coming.

But I would say the market is not a big driver of the small volume reduction we had in developing markets. One driver is one that you rightly point out which is foreign exchange. Where we haven't priced yet on some of the most recent moves like the big ruble move, we have been pricing in places like the Ukraine, Mexico, Argentina, Brazil, Venezuela, obviously, when that was legally allowed, and so that is having some impact. And typically we see that having an impact in most cases for about a 12-month period, in more significant cases, like Russia, maybe a longer period of time.

The other impact is what I indicated which is some issues we've had in both Mexico that was, sales were down 20%. I'm not sure what the volume was, but it was significant, and in China, where we have been kind of flattish. So those are two situations where we're working to improve. But really, markets, with the exception of the unknown in Russia, are pretty much holding quarter-to-quarter.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, that concludes today's conference. Thank you for your participation. You may now disconnect. Have a great day.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
prgml : The Procter & Gamble Company
   IN
i258 : Cosmetics/Toiletries | icnp : Consumer Goods | ipcare : Personal Care Products/Appliances
   NS
c151 : Earnings | cgvfil : Government Filings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Financial Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020150129eb1r001jl
  


 HD
 Q1  2015  Procter  & Gamble Co Earnings Call - Final
   WC
10,646 words
   PD
24 October 2014
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©014 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good morning and welcome to Procter and Gamble 's quarter-end conference call. Today's discussion will include a number of forward-looking statements. If you will refer to P&G 's most recent 10-K, 10-Q, and 8-K reports, you will see a discussion of factors that could cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from these projections.

   TD
As required by Regulation G, P&G needs to make you aware that during the call the Company will make a number of references to non-GAAP and other financial measures. Management believes these measures provide investors valuable information on the underlying growth trends of the business.

Organic refers to reported results excluding the impacts of acquisitions and divestitures and foreign exchange where applicable. Free cash flow represents operating cash flow less capital expenditures. Adjusted free clash cash flow productivity is the ratio of free cash flow to net earnings adjusted for impairment charges. Any measure described as core refers to the equivalent GAAP measure adjusted for certain items. Currency neutral refers to the equivalent GAAP measure excluding the impact of foreign exchange rate changes.

P&G has posted on its website, www.pg.com, a full reconciliation of non-GAAP and other financial measures. Now I will turn the call over to P&G 's Chief Financial Officer, Jon Moeller .

JON MOELLER , CFO, PROCTER & GAMBLE COMPANY : Good morning. July to September was a challenging quarter from a macro standpoint, with slowing market growth in both developed and developing regions, strong foreign exchange headwinds, market level challenges in the Ukraine, Russia, and the Middle East, Venezuela, Argentina, and Hong Kong, and increased consumption taxes in several large markets, including Japan and Mexico. Despite this we were able to deliver top- and bottom-line results for the July/September quarter, which were in line with our going-in expectations.

Organic sales grew 2% and were in line or ahead of a year ago in all reporting segments. Organic volume was in line with the prior year, pricing added more than 1 point to sales growth, and sales mix was positive. All-in sales were roughly equal to prior year, including more than 1 point of headwind from foreign exchange and the impact of brand divestitures.

Core earnings per share were $1.07, up 2% versus the prior year. Excluding FX, core earnings per share grew 9%. Core gross margin was up 20 basis points; cost savings of approximately 140 basis points and benefits from pricing were partially offset by foreign exchange, higher commodity costs, innovation and capacity investments, and negative margin mix.

Core SG&A costs as a percentage of sales increased 30 basis points; 70 basis points of overhead savings and 50 basis points of marketing savings were more than offset by foreign exchange impacts and investments in R&D and selling capabilities. Total productivity savings and cost of goods sold and SG&A were 260 basis points. Core operating margin was down 20 basis points versus the prior year.

The effective tax rate on core earnings was about 23%, nearly 2 points higher than the fiscal-year guidance of about 21%. September quarter all-in GAAP earnings per share were $0.69, which includes approximately $0.03 per share of non-core restructuring charges, $0.04 per share of charges related to a change in the exchange rate at which certain historical Venezuela and receivables will be paid, and $0.01 per share of benefit from earnings of the discontinued pet care operations. Also included is a $0.32 per share non-core, non-cash charge to write down goodwill and certain intangibles of our battery business. Duracell is a strong brand equity and personal power and attractive business, but we are writing the asset down to be more reflective of the value we'll receive in the recently announced sale of our interest in the Nanfu battery joint venture.

We generated $3.6 billion in operating cash flow and $2.8 billion in free cash flow, with 96% adjusted free cash flow productivity, reflecting our focus on balanced growth and value creation. This quarter is the best first quarter cash performance in the past five years. Improved results on payables, including good progress on our supply chain financing program, were the main driver of the strong cash performance.

We returned $4.2 billion of cash to shareholders, including $1.8 billion in dividends and $2.4 billion in share repurchase. In summary, first-quarter sales and core earnings growth were in line with going-in expectations, and we continue to build on our strong track record of cash productivity and cash return to shareholders.

We expect the headwinds facing our industry to continue. We are consequently continuing to sharpen our strategies, accelerate and increase productivity savings, and strengthen our execution.

As we announced last quarter, we are taking an important strategic step forward to streamline, simplify, and strengthen the Company's business and brand portfolio. We will become a simpler, more focused Company of 70 to 80 category-leading, competitively-advantaged brands, organized into about a dozen business units and four industry-based sectors. We will compete in businesses that are structurally attractive and play to P&G 's strengths where we can achieve sustainable advantage.

Every brand we plan to keep is strategic with the potential to grow and create value. The core 70 to 80 brands are leaders in their industries, categories, or segments. They're brands shoppers buy, consumers use, and customers support. They're leaders in brand equity, awareness, trial, purchase, and loyalty. They're leaders in product performance and product innovation, and leaders in growth and value creation. Over the next 18 to 24 months we will create a faster growing, more profitable Company that is far simpler to operate.

In the September quarter we completed the exit of the pet care business. We closed the divestiture of the America's pet business to Mars in July. Mars then executed their option to purchase the business in Asia. And last month we signed an agreement to divest the European pet business to Spectrum Brands . All remaining elements of these transactions should close in calendar year 2015, pending regulatory approval.

We generated very good value in this three-stage transaction, earning more than a 20 X EBITDA multiple on past three-year average results. The pet care trends exit transitions seven brands to new owners. In total, over the last five quarters we've divested, discontinued, or made decisions to consolidate about 25 brands.

Today we're announcing the exit of the personal power or battery business. Our goals in this process are to maximize value to P&G 's shareholders and minimize earnings per share dilution. There are two steps to this plan. In late August we finalized an agreement to sell our interest in a China-based battery joint venture in a cash transaction.

The second step is the exit of the Duracell business. Although no decision has been made on the form of exit, our preference is currently a split off of the Duracell business into a standalone company. Duracell is a global battery market leader with attractive operating profit margins. It's the brand equity and product innovation leader in the category, with a history of strong cash generation. It will receive greater priority and attention as its own company.

If we choose to pursue a split off transaction, P&G shareholders will be given the option of exchanging some, none, or all of their shares, or P&G shares, for shares in the newly formed Duracell Company. P&G 's outstanding share count will be reduced by the number of P&G shares exchanged. The exact exchange ratio will be set just prior to the completion of the transaction, which we expect will occur in the second half of calendar 2015.

While a split off is our preference, any alternative exit scenario that generates equal or better value will be fully considered. We're developing incremental savings plans to offset stranded overheads that remain in our core cost structure to minimize the dilutive impact of exiting the Duracell business. For the time being, Duracell will continue to be reported in our core results.

As we continue to strengthen our category and brand portfolio, we will strengthen and focus our brand building and product innovation efforts and investments against our biggest opportunities. We're committed to be the brand and product innovation leader in the categories in which we compete.

Year after year, decade after decade successful brand building supported by product innovation has built our businesses, transformed our categories, and created entirely new businesses. Innovation combats commoditization, stimulates category growth, and builds a cumulative advantage of our brands over time.

With branding and product innovation, we've built leading positions in laundry in many markets. In the US we have nearly 60% share of the US laundry market sales, and earn about 85% of the profit and cash generated in the category.

We launched our North American fabric care brand and product innovation bundle about eight months ago, and upgraded Tide Plus line up that make our best liquid detergents even better, Gain flings! that accelerate consumer conversion to new premium unit dose detergents, Tide Simply Clean and Fresh that provides value to your consumers, a new and better option from a brand they aspire to use. New sizes and scents of Downy Unstoppables and Gain Fireworks, and the addition of Bounce Bursts to the scent bead portfolio.

Innovations like these build on the consumer and competitive advantages our brands have created over decades. Innovations like these enable us to earn a leading share of market sales, and an even greater share of market profit and value creation. Innovations like these stimulate market growth. They spark new consumer interest in a category and grow market baskets. They trade consumers up to higher-performing products. Tide Pods and Gain flings! are priced at more than double the average price per load in the detergent category, and are still very affordable for the vast majority of consumer households.

Over the last 30 years the price of a load of laundry has lagged the price of cheese or eggs, and is a much better value than a cup of coffee or a bottle of soda. The US category's two biggest laundry brands, Tide and Gain, have each grown market share over the past 4, 13, 26, and 52 week periods. Tide value share was up 2 points for the quarter. Tide Simply Clean and Fresh is nearly a 3 share with cannibalization results better than expected. Distribution of Simply Clean and Fresh continues to grow, with a top US retailer expanding to full national distribution earlier this month.

P&G 's unit dose business across Tide and Gain is 9% share of the total US detergent market. We have over 75% share of the unit dose form. We're continuing to leverage our consumer preferred unit dose form with Tide Free and Gentle Pods, which started shipping in July.

Just over a year ago we introduced a broad range of baby care product innovation in North America. Nearly every diaper across all sizes and price tiers was improved to deliver better absorbency, comfort, or design. Our premium mom preferred diaper design, Swaddlers, was extended into sizes four, and five, and subsequently size six. P&G 's US market-leading diaper share is now really 44%, up more than 3 points versus a year ago.

On a global basis, P&G has about 35% of the global diaper value share and earns about half the profit in the category. We've built this leading baby diaper business despite the absence of a consumer-preferred pant-style diaper offering. We're now launching Pampers Premium Care Pants beginning in Russia. Pampers Pants provide exceptional skin comfort and dryness benefits in an underwear-like design. This should add to the cumulative product and equity advantage we've established with Pampers.

Gillette has a long history of innovation, blades and razors that reset the performance standards in the industry. Over time we've earned nearly a 70% share of blades and razors sales globally, and a 90% share of value and profit. ProGlide FlexBall, our newest innovation, is the first razor designed to respond to the contours of a man's face, maintaining maximum contact and delivering a closer, more complete, and comfortable shave.

Every man has a different shaped face. One Gillette FlexBall razor and cartridge delivers a uniquely better, closer, more comfortable shave for everyone. Prelaunch testing indicated men preferred FlexBall two to one versus the best selling razor in the world, our own Fusion ProGlide. Post launch, men who have used FlexBall indicate closer to a 90% preference rate. Trial has come from across the category, with an encouraging 25% from disposable users.

In the four months since launch we've seen an improvement in US blades and razors market growth, including more than a 25% spike in razor sales, and have seen sequential improvement in our razor shares over the past 12, 6, and 3 month periods. Gillette earned nearly 80% of male razor sales and nearly 90% of male cartridge sales in the US last quarter.

We'll begin the global expansion of ProGlide FlexBall early next calendar year. Also next year we'll extend our breakthrough FlexBall technology to women, with our market-leading Venus brand. FlexBall offers clear benefits to women, helping them to easily manage tricky spots such as knees and ankles. Women who have tried the new razor love it, preferring it three to one over the current global best-selling women's razor, Venus Embrace.

We believe we can grow the adult incontinence category with innovation, transform the desired consumer experience, and increase consumer, customer, and shareholder value. This is currently an attractive $7 billion global category, growing at an annual rate of 7%.

Women aren't satisfied with current product offerings. One in three women over 18 years old suffers from incontinence, but only one in nine uses an adult incontinence product of any kind. That spells consumer dissatisfaction which spells opportunity for P&G . We're entering the category with superior pad and pant-style products that deliver better fit and protection from Always, a brand that women trust and prefer.

We began shipments of Always Discreet in the UK in July, where market growth has accelerated by 20% since our launch. We've quickly grown to over 9% value share. We started shipping Always Discreet in North America and France in August. And less than two full months in the market the US adult incontinence market growth rate has accelerated to 10%, and we've grown to over a 7% value share.

Last month we launched Crest Sensi-Stop Strips, providing unprecedented tooth sensitivity relief. Unlike toothpaste that take several weeks that reduce sensitivity and need to be used twice per day, one Sensi-Stop strip applied for 10 minutes provides immediate relief and up to one month of protection from sensitivity pain for some consumers.

This is another significant market growth opportunity. Nearly 60% of Americans suffer from sensitive teeth, but only 4 in 10 are satisfied with their available sensitivity product solutions. Our focus now is on driving awareness and trial of this revolutionary new treatment for tooth sensitivity sufferers.

In July we introduced Qlearquil, a product innovation that extends Vicks into allergy treatments. This innovation leverages the very strong and trusted Vicks brand equity across a variety of products, including nighttime, daytime, and 24 hour treatments. Qlearquil is a great product for the numerous occasional sinus and allergy sufferers who only want relief when they need it and don't want or need everyday preventive dosing.

In September we launched a new bundle of product innovations on the Metamucil brand. This includes a base brand re-stage of Metamucil fiber, with a new satiety benefit of helps you feel less hungry between meals in addition to its current heart health, blood sugar, and digestive health benefits. Meta Bars are a new fiber bar form that fit with consumers' lifestyles and capitalize on the rapid growth of the health bar, meal supplement, and snack category. MetaBiotic is a new probiotic that puts Meta into the fast-growing immunity benefit space.

As I said earlier, we are committed to be the brand and product innovation leader in our categories, and we are increasing investment behind it. The best companies in any industry find a way to lead brand, product, and business model innovation and productivity. We're turning productivity into a core strength at P&G , making it a systemic and enduring value creation pillar alongside innovation.

We have significantly accelerated and will significantly exceed the $10 billion cost savings goal we set two and half years ago. We're driving cost of goods savings well above the original target run rate of $1.2 billion per year. We'll be above target again this year for the third consecutive year with strong savings across materials, manufacturing expense, and logistics.

We expect to improve manufacturing productivity by at least 6% again this year, reducing staffing even as we add capacity and start up new production modules. We've begun work on what is probably the biggest supply chain redesign in the Company's history, moving from primarily single category production sites to fewer multi-category production plants. The supply chain plans will be informed by a portfolio decisions that we've made. We'll build the supply chain around the future portfolio, not the one we have today.

We're taking the opportunity to simplify, standardize, and upgrade manufacturing platforms for faster innovation, qualification, and expansion, and improved product quality. We're transforming our distribution network in the United States, consolidating customer shipments into fewer distribution centers. These centers are strategically located closer to key customers in key population centers, enabling 80% of the business to be within one day of the store shelf and the shopper. We now have two of our new US distribution centers up, and running and we'll open the other four in early 2015.

Earlier this month we announced steps to streamline our distribution network in France, consolidating to fewer, larger distribution centers. The distribution network projects will allow both P&G and our retail partners to optimize inventory levels, while still improving service and on-shelf availability, and reducing in-store out of stocks.

We've now established a $1 billion to $2 billion value creation target for our global supply chain reinvention effort. We've doubled the associated cost of goods savings target from this global effort from $200 million to $300 million, up to $400 million to $600 million, and annual savings building to this target level over the next three to five years. These savings are incremental to the $6 billion cost of goods savings we originally communicated and are on track to exceed. We expect additional top- and bottom-line benefits from improved service levels.

We've reduced non-manufacturing enrollment by 16% in three years, enabled by several important organization design choices. We've organized around four industry-based sectors. We are streamlining and de-duplicating the work of business units and selling operations.

We've consolidated four brand-building functions into one. Each of these changes reduces complexity and each creates clearer accountability for performance and results. A more focused portfolio of brands and businesses will enable further changes. In the first quarter we again reduced enrollment versus the prior quarter, despite the addition of many of this year's new hires to our enrollment ranks.

We have additional opportunity to improve marketing efficiency in both media and non-media areas, while increasing overall marketing effectiveness and the strength of our programs. We continue to drive marketing productivity through an optimized mix, driven by new, more efficient digital, mobile, and social media.

We're making targeted reinvestments to support strong innovation. We increased marketing support behind the Tide brand in the US by 60 basis points last year, and increased Pampers marketing in the US by 230 basis points. As we generate efficiencies we'll look for good opportunities to put some of those savings back to work to improve top-line growth.

The final priority that I'll touch on this morning is execution, the only strategy our consumers and customers actually see. We're bringing renewed focus to brands, building leadership brands with iconic equities that become the prototype in their categories. Consistent expression of the brand promise with ideas that attract consumers to the brand's superior benefit, create trial, ongoing preference, and lasting loyalty.

Building trial with targeted advertising and sampling is a significant opportunity for many of our brands. For example, thousands of recent male high school graduates will receive ProGlide FlexBall razors. The babies of the 80% to 90% of new moms in the US will try Pampers while they're in the hospital. Many buyers of new dishwashers or clothes washing machines will have the opportunity to try our best Cascade and Tide product innovations.

We're focusing selling resources to improve coverage, expertise, and execution in the key retail channels, wholesalers, and distributors that make a difference. This should lead to improved distribution, shelving, merchandising, and pricing execution to consistently win at the first moment of truth. We are and will continue to increase the amount of sector and category dedication of our salesforce to improve category expertise and tenure and increase channel coverage.

Improving our branding and selling execution will be significantly enabled by the business and brand portfolio focus we have embarked on. The strategic strengthening of our portfolio, innovation investment in core categories, strengthened and accelerated productivity efforts, and stronger marketing and selling execution should enhance our results.

We're operating though in an extremely difficult macro environment with an increasing number of issues. In Russia, the Ukraine, the Middle East, Argentina, and Venezuela, with a dollar that continues to strengthen, with markets that continue to decelerate, and with increasing commodity costs despite lower crude oil prices. We're making targeted investments in value equations and are increasing the level of investments in our brands and product innovation.

With all this considered, we are maintaining previous organic sales and core earnings per share guidance ranges while we were to try to offset the macro headwinds with more productivity savings, pricing for FX, and market-accretive, innovation-enabled, top-line growth.

Our forecast for organic sales growth remains at a range of low- to mid-single digits. We now expect foreign exchange to be a negative 2 point impact on sales growth, and a 5 to 6 point headwind on core earnings per share growth. This is roughly double the impact we had estimated last quarter.

We're maintaining our core earnings per share growth guidance range of mid-single digits; while FX currently skews us toward lower end of this range, we will do our best to try to offset these impacts with productivity savings and pricing without compromising increased investments and brand equities, value equations, innovation, and selling capability. This is what we were able to successfully do last year.

Excluding FX, we are now forecasting double-digit core earnings per share growth for the fiscal year. On an all-in GAAP basis, we expect earnings per share to be down 2% to 5% versus the prior fiscal year, including approximately $0.55 per share of non-core items, mainly $0.20 per share of non-core restructuring costs and the $0.32 impairment charge.

We're targeting to deliver about 90% free cash flow productivity. We plan to offset additional capital investments with continued working capital improvements. We plan to return this cash to shareholders through dividend payments of about $7 billion, and share repurchase in the range of the $5 billion to $7 billion.

Our guidance is based on mid-October foreign exchange spot rates; further significant currency weakness including Venezuela is not anticipated within our guidance range. Our outlook is based on current market growth rates, which we are monitoring closely.

We also continue to monitor unrest in several markets in the Middle East and Eastern Europe, and we continue to closely monitor markets like Venezuela and Argentina where pricing controls, import restrictions, and access to dollars present risk. The guidance does not assume any impact from major portfolio moves, including the sale of the Nanfu battery joint venture. We'll update guidance for Nanfu once it closes. And we'll update for other transactions as they're decided and completed.

There are a few things you should keep in mind as you construct your models for the remainder of the year. Our top-line comps are more difficult in the second quarter versus the back half of the year. Benefits from new pricing to offset foreign exchange impacts in Venezuela and other markets will build throughout the year. We expect significant top- and bottom-line headwinds from foreign exchange in the October/December quarter. At current FX rates we'll annualize a portion of the FX headwinds in the back half, and productivity savings will build as the year progresses.

We look forward to talking with you more about our strategies, plans, and progress, and engaging with you on your questions at our analyst meeting here in Cincinnati on November 12 and 13. That concludes our prepared remarks for this morning.

As a reminder, business segment information is provided in our press release and will be available in slides which we have posted on our website, www.PandG.com, following the call. Now I'd be happy to take your questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions)

Olivia Tong, Bank of America Merrill Lynch .

OLIVIA TONG, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH : You walked through a lot of new innovation in your prepared remarks, and that's notable, considering that this is the first time in a few years that mix has actually contributed to top-line growth, but meanwhile, volume continues to be flattish again. So, perhaps, can you talk through how you think about the contributors to top-line growth going forward?

And then following on that, can you tell us what the breakout was in US growth versus emerging markets? And given slowing macros, can you talk about how growth progressed through the quarter? Thank you very much.

JON MOELLER : I'll try to remember all of that, Olivia. In terms of the contributors of top-line growth, as you said, volume was relatively flat, and mix was uncharacteristically positive. We expect, going forward, to resume volume growth. We will have some benefit from pricing. I would expect mix to be neutral to negative, as it has typically been and as we have said it will be, though there'll be some volatility by quarter.

And clearly, innovation will be a significant driver of our growth. But as importantly, base brand execution and brand building where we have significant opportunities also represent some opportunities for growth. So, that's kind of, without getting really specific, how we're thinking about driving growth forward.

And I think it's important that we just step back a minute in the midst of some of the macro difficulties, and reflect on opportunities for growth. Developing markets are still growing mid- to high-single digits, depending on the market. So, while growth rates, in our view, are 1 to 2 points lower than they were a year ago, there's still a lot of opportunity there. And there are significant opportunities in developed markets.

It's very early, but we're starting to see a little bit of uptick in the market growth rates in North America, presumably driven by lower unemployment, wage rates just beginning to increase, and lower gasoline prices, and hopefully that continues. But even if that doesn't, there are still significant opportunities for growth in developed markets.

Just one example: think about the aging demographic. There are 10,000 Americans every day crossing the 65-years-old line. And we talked in our prepared remarks about the adult incontinence opportunity, the tooth sensitivity opportunity with Crest Sensi-Stop Strips also should benefit from that demographic shift. And even things like Tide Pods, which are more convenient from a carrying and handling standpoint for older bodies and hands, will help us benefit from that demographic change. So, we continue to be very aware of the challenges we face, but very hopeful about the opportunities that are in front of us.

In terms of the split between developed and developing, both North America and the developed markets in total were essentially flat on the quarter in terms of organic sales growth, with developing up 4%.

OPERATOR: Dara Mohsenian, Morgan Stanley .

DARA MOHSENIAN, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY : Gross margin performance clearly improved in the quarter. It was up for the first time in a year and a half, year over year, and I'm guessing it was probably better or ahead of what you guys expected. Can you discuss the key drivers behind that, in terms of the sequential gross margin improvement, and if you think that's sustainable going forward?

And then also just wanted to get an update on the drag you're experiencing from emerging markets growth in terms of gross margin mix, and the progress you expect to make in emerging markets over the next couple of years on gross margins with more localized manufacturing.

JON MOELLER : The biggest driver, as you would expect, of the gross margin improvement was the productivity savings, which were about 140 basis points. There was also less difference, if you will, between developing market growth rates and developed market growth rates. So, part of the answer going forward depends on that dynamic. And there was also an offset from foreign exchange. So, the dynamics going forward also depend on that dynamic.

We continue to focus on improving the profitability in the developing markets, so that growth there becomes less of a gross margin drag. If you look at the last two years, and then what we're projecting this year, two years of grow, we grew constant-currency profits in developing markets 2 times faster than sales. Last year, we grew them 4 times faster than sales. This year, we're forecasting again to be about double the rate of sales growth. So, we're very intentional and very deliberate in our efforts to improve developing-market margins to a point where they're not as much of a drag on mix.

But we're very happy with the gross margin performance we delivered. I think on a fiscal-year basis, while it will continue to be volatile by quarter, we should continue to see progress.

OPERATOR: Wendy Nicholson, Citigroup .

WENDY NICHOLSON, ANALYST, CITIGROUP : When you announced in August that you were going through this portfolio rationalization process, you said that you wouldn't be selling $1-billion brands basically, and yet now we're getting the divestiture or the spin of Duracell . So, my question is: Does the target for the 10% number of sales that you're going to be exiting, now go up to kind of 12% to 13% when you include Duracell , or has there been some change in how you build up to that 10%? Thanks.

JON MOELLER : You're right, Wendy, in referring to the Pareto of brands that we talked about that we'd be divesting, and we said there were many that were much smaller than there were those that were bigger. But we didn't say that there wouldn't be any large ones. If we did, that was a misstatement.

But in terms of taking the number up, no; this is part of the plan. And as I said, we're about 25% of the way through the plan, through the end of the quarter. This is additive to that. So, we continue to make progress against that originally articulated plan. There will be some larger businesses, but the majority will be small. And I apologize if we miscommunicated that previously.

OPERATOR: Michael Steib , Credit Suisse .

MICHAEL STEIB , ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE : Just following on Duracell -- why, even though you've taken a decision to exit this business now, is it still included in the ongoing operations? And then, related to that, at what point are you going to tell us what level of operating profit you're essentially losing by exiting that business?

And then, secondly, are there significant stranded overhead costs that you're expecting in that disposal process?

JON MOELLER : US GAAP accounting requirements require that we account for something in a split-off context in continuing operations until the split off is executed. And that's why it remains in continuing operations. But as we execute the split off, or as we were to sign any other agreement, the business would move into discontinued operations at that time.

In terms of stranded overhead, there is some overhead that this business is absorbing. As we talked in the last quarter, we're going to do our best to offset that to help minimize dilution.

And in terms of what the dilution will ultimately be, it's really too early to give you helpful guidance on that because a lot of that's going to depend on what form the transaction ultimately takes. It will depend on the amount of shares that are exchanged, and that exchange ratio, which won't be set until closer to the transaction itself.

So, we'll try to keep you updated as we have information. But right now, it would be a pretty wide range. But, again, I think the takeaway is that we're committed, both through the form of the transaction and through our efforts to reduce stranded overhead to minimize that dilution number.

OPERATOR: Bill Chappell, SunTrust.

BILL CHAPPELL, ANALYST, SUNTRUST ROBINSON HUMPHREY: Jon, can you talk a little bit more about the commodity basket, and what you see over the next -- remainder of FY15? Clearly, with oil coming down, diesel, freight, other things should be a tailwind, but you've alluded to there were some other headwinds; so, just trying to see what you're seeing, and what the net inflation will be this year?

JON MOELLER : Yes, we're certainly hopeful that this becomes a tailwind over time. But it takes a while for, for instance, crude reductions to work their way through the refineries. And there's a bit of a bottleneck right now in refining capacity in parts of the world, which is why we're not seeing the immediate flow-through into our commodity cost base.

So, our commodities currently are about a 2- to 3-point headwind versus last year. And we are seeing some moderation and a small decline, for instance, in diesel prices. And hopefully that continues. But we still have resins and polypropylenes, due to the dynamic I mentioned earlier, up fairly significantly versus a year ago. So, hopefully that 2- to 3-point headwind is a worst-case number, and hopefully we get some help as things continue to evolve.

OPERATOR: John Faucher , JPMorgan .

JOHN FAUCHER , ANALYST, JPMORGAN : Two quick questions -- well, one quick, one probably a little bit longer. First off, can you talk a little bit about the sustainability of the working capital improvement that you saw this quarter? There was a nice benefit year over year.

And then the second question relates to the mix from a margin standpoint. Obviously, it was better this quarter because emerging markets got worse, let's say. But can you talk about some of the margin improvements you can make outside the US and outside of developed markets that will create a little less margin pressure, particularly on the operating profit line as we look out over the next couple of years? Thanks.

JON MOELLER : Thanks, John. On the sustainability of working capital improvements, I view them as very sustainable. Cash is one of our clear focus areas, and we have some strong plans there to continue to make progress.

The progress that we made in the quarter that we just reported was driven primarily by the supply chain financing program, which has future benefits associated with it. We're not all of our way through that yet. And those benefits are sustainable going forward.

On top of that, as we execute our portfolio-focusing program, there's a significant opportunity, that we're committed to go after, once we've rationalized the category and brand portfolio at the SKU level. And that also represents a significant inventory and working capital opportunity. The bottom 5% of our SKUs in terms of movement, not surprisingly, account for a much greater percentage of our inventory. So, as we get after that, there should be a benefit.

And third, as I mentioned in our supply chain redesign efforts, we're hopeful we can take significant levels of inventory out of the total system. And at the same time, decrease shelf out-of-stocks, improve customer service. So, there are a number of big drivers that we should have available to us to continue to make progress in that area, which we're committed to do, in part to offset the impact of some of the capital spending that we're doing in the supply chain redesign on a global basis.

In terms of: What can we do in developing markets to reduce the margin mix impact? As I mentioned in an answer to a prior question, we are making significant progress in this area on a constant-currency basis, 2 times the rate of organic sales growth two years ago, 4 times last year, at least 2 times again this year.

Also, some of the developing-market investments that we made -- for instance, the oral care investments -- those are beginning to accrete, and that should be a source of help going forward. The productivity savings are not simply a developed-market dynamic. They are equally a developing-market dynamic on items like TDC, items like marketing, even in the non-manufacturing overhead arena.

And then, as you know, we're also increasingly localizing our production. We'll be bringing some of the same redesign to parts of the developing world that we're doing in the developed world today, at least from a distribution center standpoint. And so, I see no reason why, longer term, developing-markets margins should be a significant drag on earnings, though they will continue to be a negative drag in the near term.

OPERATOR: Chris Ferrara , Wells Fargo .

CHRIS FERRARA , ANALYST, WELLS FARGO SECURITIES, LLC : Jon, can you talk a little bit about beauty? In particular, can you go through Pantene US, which -- the scanner data looks a little better recently. And then also Olay US, your skincare in general US, skincare in China? And then maybe elaborate on the prestige comments you made in the press release? That would be great.

JON MOELLER : So, if you look at beauty, parts of that business are doing fairly well. We grew anti-perspirants and deodorants mid-single digits. Cosmetics grew organic sales mid-single digits in the quarter, with Max Factor growing shipments on a double-digit basis globally. Safeguard was growing mid-single digits globally, with double-digit growth in parts of the developing world. And we had a pretty strong quarter on Hugo Boss , which is our largest prestige fragrance.

Haircare grew about 2% in the quarter. We were very encouraged by the developments that you point out on Pantene in the US, where volume was up 11% on the quarter. As I've cautioned before, this will not be a straight line, and competitive intensity in this category is significant. But still, forward progress is encouraging.

Olay remains a work in progress. We are making some good progress in addressing some of the consumer benefit segments that we had neglected and that are important in the category, with items like Luminous, with items like Fresh Effects, but we still have work to do, both in North America and in China. But sequentially, quarter on quarter, better results in beauty from a top-line standpoint, and we're hopeful we can continue that.

OPERATOR: Bill Schmitz, Deutsche Bank .

BILL SCHMITZ, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK : A couple questions: Just to drill down more in the US, can you just talk about some of the price interventions you discussed last quarter -- if they're done yet and where they happened? And then, some of the personnel changes in the US? And your views on the sustainability of the US recovery? I know it's very nascent, but curious why you think things are improving, and maybe how long you think it will last?

And then, lastly, just urgency on some of the share losses in China, and if you saw any material distributor destocking in any of the major emerging markets? Sorry for the long question.

JON MOELLER : Obviously, pricing is a sensitive topic, so I don't want to get into really granular specifics, but we did mention that we had made value equation interventions in both the laundry and the paper products businesses, specifically tissue towel and toilet paper. And those appear to have been going pretty well.

As I mentioned in the prepared remarks, we've built share on almost any period of time you can look at in the last 52 weeks, in both Gain and Tide. Tide was up 2 points in the quarter. So, we'll continue; we need to be competitive on pricing. We'll continue to be competitive, but I think we're pretty much where we need to be. I don't see -- of course, this changes on a daily basis, but as we sit here today, I don't see any additional significant moves that need to be made.

In terms of personnel, look, we're just taking advantage of normal retirement and normal attrition to design the Organization that's going to lead this more focused, more strategically oriented Company for balanced growth and value creation. And that's what we're doing.

We're going to have a management team that's going to manage this Company that will be the same size as the team that existed in 2000, managing a Company that's actually more than 2 times the size of the Company in 2000. And that's the design intent.

In terms of China -- China continues to be an attractive market, in our view. It's a market where we've grown over 50% in the last four years. Market growth continues; the last quarter, based on our look at our categories, market growth was about 6%. Our inventories are pretty much in line throughout the trade chain. So, we really have not -- I would view those destocking dynamics as company-specific rather than systemic.

OPERATOR: Steve Powers, UBS .

STEVE POWERS, ANALYST, UBS : I was hoping maybe just to step back and put this quarter in the broader context of all the improvement efforts that you're doing. Clearly, there's lots of things that you've done internally over the last 12 months that you summarized, and that could be viewed as positive. There's the re-org, the supply chain restructuring, overall productivity focus you've built, the brand refocusing initiative, et cetera. I think all that's good.

But despite that, and despite the innovation successes and the brand strength that you ran through, organic growth is still only rounding up to 2%. Only two of the divisions grew this quarter. And I get that improved focus over time and easier compares going forward should help, but even many of the core brands you intend to retain remain pretty sluggish and have been so for some time.

So, I guess in that context, what are you planning to do to change that paradigm? Is it truly all about the better execution that you mentioned, or are there things that consumers currently want from P&G in certain areas that you're not delivering? Because I'm trying to discern how much you can do to re-accelerate growth on your own versus how much such improvement is just more dependent on macro improvement. Thanks.

JON MOELLER : There's a lot that we can do on our own. And that's why I talked about the whole brand building and selling execution opportunity. That's completely within our control.

And I mentioned the sampling opportunities. We have opportunities to continue to improve the quality and clarity of our communication with consumers. We have significant opportunities, which the supply chain redesign will help us address at the first moment of truth, just in terms of out-of-stocks.

And generally, while market growth have slowed, consumers continue to be very responsive to innovation that increases the value of the product that they're purchasing. If we look at the segments of our Business that are growing the fastest -- I talked about some of them in the opening remarks, but many of those are premium-priced items, but come with product superiority and consumer benefit that more than justifies that price.

And put simply: We believe that the antidote to relatively slow overall market sales or market growth is three-fold: it's innovation, it's productivity, and it's execution. And I would be remiss if I didn't mention in this context that, to the point of the prior question, we still have work to do on our beauty business and on a couple of other pockets of the Business. And that should also, as we improve that, make a significant difference in our ability to grow, not just at, but slightly ahead of, market growth rates.

OPERATOR: Lauren Lieberman, Barclays Capital .

LAUREN LIEBERMAN, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL : Let me just follow up on that a bit, and let's maybe focus on grooming. Because when you talk about some of the sampling opportunities, some of them sounded familiar, like things you've always done. The babies in the hospital get Pampers, you've got incredible reach there; sending razors to boys when they turn 18, that dynamic. So, that's not necessarily new.

So, we focus better on grooming, right? That's the trial opportunity. You had a massive innovation with FlexBall. You gave some really positive statistics on the impact on the market.

Yet the organic sales growth of the Business was flat, and it was all pricing, and volume was down. So, just maybe focus on a particular business -- what was missing? If FlexBall has been so successful thus far, what's missing that these numbers are still so weak? Thanks.

JON MOELLER : Well, I think there, it's very early. And you can imagine that most men have an inventory of blades at home that they have to work through before the real driver of growth in that market, which is cartridge consumption, takes place. But we're beginning to see an increase now in cartridge market share. We're up about 1.4 points in the quarter.

We're also beginning to see a reduction in the rate of market decline in the grooming segment. It was down as much as 6% to 7%. Previously, it's down about 3% on a more recent basis, and as low as past 1% in a couple -- or down 1% in a couple of the recent months.

And remember as well that the FlexBall innovation is not only new to market, it's only in one country, serving one gender. And as I mentioned in my remarks, we'll begin globalizing this over the balance -- starting in calendar-year 2015. We'll bring the truly superior benefit of this product to women as well. And so, we're early days in that whole dynamic.

Also remember that when we sell an initiative, which we did with FlexBall in the last quarter, there's an inherent acceleration of sales into the quarter as we work to stock the shelves and fill the supply chain. So, grooming organic growth last quarter was 7%. If you look at it on a two-quarter average basis, which I think is a more representative way to look at it given the initiative dynamics, it's in pretty good shape.

OPERATOR: Connie Maneaty, BMO Capital.

CONNIE MANEATY, ANALYST, BMO CAPITAL MARKETS: How many more businesses are there in your portfolio like the one in China that led to an almost $1-billion non-cash impairment charge?

JON MOELLER : As you can imagine, we do impairment testing on a routine basis. We disclosed in our last K that there was some risk on the Duracell valuation -- that we had very little cushion. And then the selling price that we generated and the impacts of a decision to sell, which frankly changed some of the impairment testing criteria, led to that impairment.

You'll notice in our disclosures that there are no other businesses that we're disclosing a similar risk on. That doesn't mean there will never be one, but as we sit here today, I see that as very low risk.

OPERATOR: Nik Modi, RBC Capital Markets .

NIK MODI, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Jon, just wanted to tack onto Bill Schmitz's question regarding the personnel changes, and if you can talk about this along two vectors. One is just near-term disruption, and how we should be thinking about that as you have new folks getting into new roles and getting up the learning curve?

And then the second question is: As you streamline P&G 's decision makers and operating model, have you thought about changing incentive structures in any way, shape, or form just to kind of get people focused on the right behaviors and the right geographies and the right product categories? Thanks.

JON MOELLER : So, I'm not terribly concerned about near-term disruption. I think it's a fair question, Nik. But there are many more people continuing to do their jobs than people changing jobs. And the people that are changing jobs are veteran, experienced pros, in every case.

So, it's something that we need to stay deliberate and intentional on -- not dropping any balls. But I'm not really that concerned about that.

Again, it's meant in no way to dismiss the question. I think it's a very fair question, but I think we're in good shape.

In terms of rewards and incentives, that's something that we're always looking at. That's something that the Compensation Committee and the Board is always looking at. I don't have a specific change to announce today. But it's something that continues to receive the appropriate levels of attention.

OPERATOR: Jason English, Goldman Sachs .

JASON ENGLISH, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS : I'd like to circle back on an earlier question on beauty, specifically prestige. I don't think I heard you discuss the drivers of weakness there, and I was hopeful you could elaborate.

And then more broadly, based on your 10-K disclosures, this has been a business with pretty inconsistent performance in the past, and obviously it serves a non-core retail customer for you. So, in that context, can you walk us through the rationale or maybe the puts and takes of why it either should or shouldn't be considered in your portfolio rationalization initiatives?

JON MOELLER : Thanks for re-asking the question on the trends in the quarter, Jason; I appreciate that. Bill asked such a long question, I'd forgotten that part. And that's not a dig on you, Bill. (laughter)

The biggest driver, frankly, is a base period dynamic where we had a strong innovation on both Gucci and Lacoste in the year-ago quarter. And there was less of that this quarter.

As you can understand, maybe not appreciate, I really don't want to spend a lot of time talking about specific businesses and their role in the portfolio as we're going through all the changes that we're going through. We will announce moves and decisions as they occur, and we'll try to be very clear as to what the rationale is. And I'll leave it there.

OPERATOR: Javier Escalante , Consumer Edge Research.

JAVIER ESCALANTE , ANALYST, CONSUMER EDGE RESEARCH: Jon, a question on the savings and your decision of having double-digit earnings growth in this environment, okay, currency-neutral? Could you tell us how much savings you extracted this quarter, and remind us what is the target for the year? And to what extent there is reinvestment allocated in these double-digit earnings growth target at this stage of the turnaround, as my peers are alluding to the very low top-line growth, the 2%? Okay? Thank you.

JON MOELLER : Thank you, Javier. In the quarter, there were about 250 basis points of savings across cost of goods and SG&A. And a not insignificant portion of that was reinvested. I talked about the investment levels that we've increased behind Tide.

When we have a strong innovation, we're going to invest behind it. We did the same on Pampers, and have continued spending to drive that business, increase consumer awareness, increase household penetration.

I also mentioned that I didn't give it a lot of time, so I understand how people could have glossed over it, but we are being very intentional in reinvesting in two areas. One, in the SRA area. One is in R&D to bring even more innovation to market that's more relevant for consumers, and improves their lives in an even stronger way. And in our selling execution, ensuring that we've got sufficient channel coverage in the channels that are growing and that matter, ensuring that we have an appropriate level of category knowledge and dedication. So, we are not driven -- we will reinvest when there are good opportunities in which we feel we can drive a strong return.

OPERATOR: Mark Astrachan, Stifel.

MARK ASTRACHAN, ANALYST, STIFEL NICOLAUS: Wanted to follow up on an earlier question on beauty, and prestige, in particular. Curious about the recently announced decision to consolidate leadership of the salon and global prestige units under one person. Is there a change to how the Company is thinking about managing one or both of those units? And then also, just quickly, anything to read into in the change in the name of that beauty, hair, and now personal care segment, from beauty previously?

JON MOELLER : (laughter) I'm not in any way trying to back-hand the answer to that question, but there's really not a lot of significance in either of those. This is -- Patrice Louvet that you're referring to, will be managing those three businesses. He has a strong track record within the Company. He's managed our fragrance business; our prestige business previously. And he's going to be great going forward.

OPERATOR: Alice Longley, Buckingham Research .

ALICE LONGLEY, ANALYST, BUCKINGHAM RESEARCH GROUP: My question is about what you think your category growth rate was globally in the quarter? Trying to figure out if you gained or lost share in this quarter.

And then, are you still holding to category growth rate of 2% to 3% for FY15? And has there been any change in your outlook for category growth rate in the US versus emerging regions for this year? Thank you.

JON MOELLER : Okay. So, overall, category growth rate was about 2.5%. And that's kind of what we're expecting. As I mentioned in the prepared remarks, we are basing our guidance on the current market growth rates we see, which are those.

I also mentioned that -- sorry, I might not have mentioned, but we're seeing a slight uptick in growth rates in North America, which is encouraging. We're talking here fairly modest, and as I've said on other calls, this has tended to be choppy in the past, so it's up one quarter, down the next. We'll see. But that's a reason to have a degree of hope there.

And in terms of where we are gaining and losing share, generally we're about flat in North America. We're up a little bit in Europe. We're down a little bit in a couple of the developing markets, and that gets you back to even.

OPERATOR: Caroline Levy, CLSA.

CAROLINE LEVY, ANALYST, CLSA LIMITED: This goes to both Olay and the baby care business. And you had mentioned you are looking at how to improve your selling execution in the face of new channel development. So, in China in particular, the explosion of online sales and mommy stores, beauty shops, just could you dive into a little deeper how much that has disrupted the Business in China?

In particular, if I look at baby, I think you had flat volume in the quarter, and yet you did very, very well in the US in baby. So, that would be helpful. Thank you.

JON MOELLER : First of all, the channels that you mentioned are very relevant channels, and they're growing very quickly. And we have, as you can imagine, deliberate efforts to participate in that growth. Also, eCommerce is growing very, very quickly in China. It's about 40% of the growth in the market. And we are very well represented there as well.

In terms of the difference between baby share development in the US and China, first of all, we remain, by a wide margin, the market leader in baby care in China. The competitive sets are different between China and the US. And as a result, you would expect some different dynamics. But we continue to be very encouraged about the Business in both areas. And that's really what I'd have to say.

OPERATOR: Ali Dibadj, Bernstein.

ALI DIBADJ, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & COMPANY, INC.: So, I wanted to get a better understanding of where you think you are versus plan in the turnaround, since AG came back. And I think about it along three dimensions at least. One is productivity. And I guess I'm reacting a little bit to about a fifth of your productivity coming from advertising spend basis points -- basis advertising spend this quarter. So, one is advertising spend.

Two is the pace of divestitures. So, Duracell happening here, very shortly after you said you're going to do something. Should we expect as fast or a fast pace for larger divestitures like this?

And then third is something folks have referred to a little bit, which is: Two of your five segments are really driving your growth. And I want to understand, within that, how much of that is less sensitivity of those particular segments to the macro environment? And how much of that is actually execution, actually innovation, actually things you're doing? And so, that's the core question.

I just have two follow-up clarity questions on some other things. One is, what would your growth have been in beauty without the volumes in prestige being an issue? And what would your growth have been without Duracell in the fabric segment? Thank you.

JON MOELLER : In terms of where we are, in innings, if you will, in the execution of the plan, I think we're in some of the early innings. I think there is a significant -- I know that there's a significant productivity opportunity that still stands in front of us. We've talked about the redesign of the supply chains. We've talked about the portfolio focus, which will give us more opportunity to get even more efficient in our overhead approach.

So, I think there is -- we will accelerate and we'll exceed the $10 billion, and we won't stop there. I see this being characteristic of our opportunities and the environment that we're operating in, for the foreseeable future.

In terms of the advertising question, within that, as we've tried to say many times, most of the reduction that's occurring is in non-media spending. And of the 50 basis points that we referenced in our prepared remarks, 40 basis points of that was non-advertising marketing spending. So, it's lower production costs, it's lower talent costs, it's more efficient operation.

It's not less advertising reaching consumers, or in any way less effective advertising reaching consumers. Our objective here is to continue to strengthen the impact of our marketing and advertising efforts, while reducing costs that don't matter to consumers.

In terms of the pace of divestitures, as we said, as AG said in the call last quarter, and as I mentioned today, we'll do this over an 18- to 24-month period. Quite frankly, we're not going to be time-driven. We're going to be value-driven. And so, it's hard for me to sit here today and say exactly how long it will take.

But we will continue to pursue it at pace. We'd obviously like to get there as soon as is practical, but don't want to compromise value by focusing overly on timing versus quality of execution.

And honestly, relative to the last part of the question, I think it's very hard to look at one quarter's of results and come to a big conclusion about what's driving anything. So, I would encourage us to kind of take those segment results over a period of three or four quarters to get a better feel for what's going on.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, that concludes today's conference. Thank you for your participation. You may now disconnect. Have a great day.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
prgml : The Procter & Gamble Company
   IN
i258 : Cosmetics/Toiletries | icnp : Consumer Goods | ipcare : Personal Care Products/Appliances
   NS
c151 : Earnings | cgvfil : Government Filings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020141026eaao002pc
  


 HD
 Q4  2014  Procter  & Gamble Co Earnings Call - Final
   WC
13,222 words
   PD
1 August 2014
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©014 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Procter & Gamble's quarter end conference call. Today's discussion will include a number of forward-looking statements. If you will refer to P&G's most recent 10-K, 10-Q and 8K reports you will see a discussion of factors that could cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from these projections.

   TD
As required by Regulation G, P&G needs to make you aware that during the call, the Company will make a number of references to non-GAAP and other financial measures. Management believes these measures provide investors valuable information on the underlying growth trends of the business.

Organic refers to reported results excluding the impacts of acquisitions and divestiture's and foreign exchange where applicable. Free cash flow represents operating cash flow less capital expenditures. Free cash flow productivity is the ratio of free cash flow to net earnings.

Any measure described as core refers to the equivalent GAAP measure adjusted for certain items. P&G has posted on its website www.pg.com a full reconciliation of non-GAAP and other financial measures.

Now I will turn the call over to P&G's Chief Financial Officer, Jon Moeller.

JON MOELLER, CFO, THE PROCTER & GAMBLE COMPANY: Good morning. I am joined this morning by A.G. Lafley and John Chevalier. We will start our discussion with a review of fiscal year and fourth quarter results. A.G. will then discuss our foregoing strategy and plans to strengthen our results and I'll close with guidance for FY15.

One housekeeping item before we begin. All the numbers we'll be discussing today assume discontinued operations treatment for the pet care business reflecting our planned exit. Impacts of the move from operating results to discontinued operations were provided previously in an 8-K filing and are available online.

Now on to results. We grew organic sales 3% in the fiscal year we just completed, in line with median performance in our industry. We essentially held market share. Core earnings per share increased 5%.

Organic sales and earnings per share results were both within our target ranges. In fact, they were both within the pre-Venezuela devaluation ranges that we established going into the fiscal year. Despite more than a 25% reduction in market growth rates from 4 points a year ago to 2.5 to 3 points currently and significant negative foreign exchange developments versus our going in plan. Our productivity program which we will talk more about later was a significant enabler in delivering this outcome.

On a constant currency basis core earnings per share grew double digits despite market growth headwinds. All-in sales grew 1%. All-in earning earnings per share grew 4%. We generated $10.1 billion of free cash flow with 86% free cash flow productivity.

We increased the dividend 7%, the 58th consecutive year that the dividend has been increased. We returned $12.9 billion in cash to shareholders, $6.9 billion in dividends, and $6 billion in share repurchase. About 110% of net earnings all-in.

We made significant progress on productivity, operating discipline, and execution. We delivered $1.6 billion of cost of goods savings, well ahead of our target run rate of $1.2 billion and ahead of our going in estimate of $1.4 billion.

We improved manufacturing productivity by over 7%, reducing overall enrollment while adding new capacity and new sites. We opened the first new multi category distribution center in the US with five additional centers slated to come online by early next calendar year.

We continued to accelerate overhead reduction. In February 2012 we announced the targeted 10% reduction of non manufacturing enrollment by June of 2016. As of July 1, 2014, we reduced roles by 16%. More than 50% ahead of the original objective two years earlier.

We've made good progress driving marketing effectiveness and efficiency through an optimized media mix with more digital mobile search and social presence and improved message clarity, and greater savings in non media spending. While acknowledging the progress I just described across cost of goods sold overhead and marketing, you may be asking yourselves, where have all the savings gone? In the year we just completed, most went to offset FX.

We have large leading positions in some of the markets where currencies have softened the most, Japan, Venezuela, and the Ukraine. And where price controls are in place. Excluding foreign exchange, core earnings per share were up double digits.

Partly as a result of devaluation we are seeing significant wage inflation in developing markets, as much as 30% per annum which we also need to offset. We're continuing to make targeted investments in innovation, trial generation, and in selling coverage to drive growth.

In addition to productivity we made good progress this year in continuing to focus the portfolio. Just yesterday we closed the America's pet care sales to Mars. Mars has also chosen to exercise their option to purchase the Asia business which accounts for 10% of sales. We are working the European pet transaction with a different set of buyers.

We exited the concierge health services business, MDVIP. We exited the bleach business. And we divested several additional smaller brands, Latin America Pert as an example.

Moving from the fiscal year to the fourth-quarter, organic sales grew 2% in a very challenging macro environment with decelerating levels of market growth in both developed and developing regions and intense competitive spending in several categories. Organic volume was in line with prior year levels, pricing added two points to sales growth.

All-in sales were down one point including the two point headwind from foreign exchange and a modest negative impact from minor brand divestitures. Core earnings per share were $0.95, a 20% increase versus the prior year.

Foreign exchange was a $0.04 headwind on the quarter. Excluding foreign exchange, core earnings per share grew 25%. This includes a five point benefit from tax and a four point benefit from minor brand divestitures.

Core operating margin improved 170 basis points driven by productivity savings. Core gross margin was down 50 basis points.

Cost savings of approximately 270 basis points were offset by product category and geographic mix, foreign exchange and higher commodity costs. Core SG&A cost as a percentage of sales improved by 220 basis points driven by overhead savings of 110 basis points, marketing efficiencies of 30 basis points, and other SG&A reductions.

As we previewed in the last call nonoperating gains from minor brand and business divestitures added approximately $0.03 to core earnings per share in the quarter. The effective tax rate on core earnings was 19% bringing the fiscal year rate to 21% consistent with the outlook we provided in the last call. June quarter all-in GAAP earnings per share were $0.89 which include approximately $0.04 per share of non-core restructuring charges and $0.02 of charges from legal reserve adjustments.

In summary we've just completed a challenging and tough but on target year. We met our objectives, delivered double-digit constant currency earnings growth come, meaningfully advanced our productivity and portfolio focus agendas and built on our strong track record of cash return to shareholders. There is more work to do to deliver sustainable sales growth and reliable profit, cash and value creation.

I'll turn it over to A.G. to talk about strategies and plans to accomplish this.

A.G. LAFLEY, CHAIRMAN, CEO, & PRESIDENT, THE PROCTER & GAMBLE COMPANY: Thanks Jon. So that we are crystal clear, as Jon reported, we delivered our business and financial commitments in 2013/2014. But we could have and should have done better.

If just a couple of businesses that missed their going in operating plans had delivered, we would've achieved our internal leadership team goals of 4% sales growth, built modest market share, delivered 7% core EPS instead of 5% and 5% core operating profit growth instead of 2%.

Despite all the market realities Jon described, country volatility, market slowdowns, currency hurts, customer and competitor challenges. The point here is delivering a better year was solely in our influence and control.

So while operating discipline and executional capability is getting better, a lot better around here, it must continue to improve to reach the levels of performance this Company and our organization is capable of. We are increasing our focus on shoppers and consumers. They are the boss.

Everything begins with consumer understanding, winning the zero first and second moments of truth, and everything ends with winning the consumer value equation, consumer preference, purchase, and loyalty. We are focused on creating and building consumer preferred brands and products that generate leading industry growth and value creation. This is how we will generate top-tier total shareholder return.

We need to continue to strengthen our brand positions, our product portfolio and pipeline, and our selling effectiveness in the countries' channels and customers in a way that maximizes shopper trial and regular purchase, drives brand and category growth, and delivers more reliable value creation for customers, partners, for P&G, and of course, for shareowners.

Today we are announcing an important strategic step forward that will significantly streamline and simplify the Company's business and brand portfolio. We will become a much more focused, much more streamlined Company of 70 to 80 brands organized into about a dozen business units and the 4 focused industry sectors.

We'll compete in categories that are structurally attractive and that play to P&G strengths. Within these categories we will focus on leading brands, marketed in the right countries, channels and customers where the size of the prize and the probability of winning are highest. With product lines and SKUs that really matter to shoppers and customers.

Why this significant strategic word of play change in brand portfolio? These core 70 to 80 brands are consumer preferred and customer supported. These brands are for the most part leaders in their industry category or segment, 23 with sales of $1 billion to $10 billion, another 14 with sales of $0.5 billion to $1 billion and the remainder, 30 to 40 with strong brand equities and sales of $100 million to $500 million.

These brands are all well-positioned with consumers and customers and well positioned competitively. These brands have strong equities and differentiated products and a track record of growth and value creation driven by product innovation and brand preference. These brands are core strategic and have very real potential to grow and deliver meaningful value creation.

Over the last three years, the 70 to 80 brand portfolio has accounted for 90% of Company sales and over 95% of profit. It has grown 1 point or 100 basis point faster than the total Company and has earned more than 1 additional point of before tax margins. This new streamlined P&G should continue to grow faster and more sustainably and reliably create more value.

Importantly, this will be a much simpler, much less complex Company of leading brands that's easier to manage and operate. This simplicity will significantly focus investment and resource allocation and enable execution.

We will harvest, partner, discontinue, or divest the balance 90 to 100 brands. In aggregate, sales of these brands has been declining 3% per year over the past three years, profits have been declining 16%. These brands make up less than half the average Company margin.

The strategic narrowing and refocusing of the brand portfolio will have a number of significant benefits, mutually reinforcing. 70 to 80 brands will bring clarity, focus and prioritization and simplicity to a smaller, more integrated, better coordinated organization.

The brand business units will be responsible for brand and product programs, end-to-end, down to the local country level. Selling and market operations will be responsible for customer and channel strategies -- I will continue.

Selling and market operations will be responsible for customer and channel strategies, for distribution, shelving, merchandising, and pricing execution, for winning at the first moment of truth at the retail customer and distributor level. This focus on fewer core strategic brands will enable a significant rationalization of product lines within brands and an even more -- this focus on fewer core strategic brands will enable a significant rationalization of product lines within brands and an even more significant pruning of unproductive SKUs.

As we rationalize business and brand portfolios, product lines, and SKUs, P&G brands and products will be easier to shop and more productive and profitable for our customers, our partners, and for the Company. This focus on fewer strategic brands will enable R&D to focus product and technology development on more consumer relevant and impactful brand and product ideas. We've already started reallocating R&D resources and budgets, cutting out low value activity, and doubling down on our most promising product innovations.

This focus on fewer core strategic brands will importantly inform our supply chain transformation. We will now match manufacturing capacity to the brand portfolio and product lines.

We'll build distribution and mixing centers for only the brands and products we choose to sell. This should enable industry leading responsiveness and service to customers at lower cost throughout the value chain.

With this refocus on consumer and shopper preferred leading brands, we will be able to focus selling operations by retail account wholesaler and distributor; strategies, tactics and in-store executions that really make a difference. The same simple simplification and prioritization enables all our functions to provide the business units and sales operations better value added help and support.

In summary, we're going to create a faster growing more profitable company that is far simpler to manage and operate. This will enable P&G people to be more agile and responsive, more flexible and faster, less will be much more.

As a result of the Company's strategic focus on its leading brands, we will both accelerate and over deliver the original $10 billion productivity plan. While we're not going to publish or report specific endpoint savings numbers today, we will clearly over deliver the original goals and we will update you on progress along the way.

In cost of goods sold we're driving further and faster than when we established the original savings objectives. The annual manufacturing productivity improvements we're making and have made measured by the number of cases of product produced per person per year are well beyond initial targets. Better process reliability and adherence to quality standards is resulting in less raw material and finished product scrapping, increasing localization of supply chain is diving transportation and warehousing cost savings.

Earlier this year we initiated what is probably the biggest supply chain redesign in our Company's history. We're moving from primarily single category production sites to fewer multi category manufacturing plants. We are taking this opportunity to simplify, standardize and upgrade manufacturing platforms for faster innovation, qualification and expansion and improved product quality.

We moved to standard manufacturing platforms a little over 10 years ago in baby care. We're developing standardized manufacturing platforms for a number of businesses, fabric care, grooming, oral, and personal power to name a handful.

We are transforming our distribution center network. Moving from shipping products to customers from many ship points as if they were coming from different companies to consolidating customer shipping into fewer distribution centers. These centers are located strategically closer to customers and key population centers in North America enabling 80% of P&G's business to be within one day or less of the store shelves and the shopper.

This will allow both P&G and our retail partners to optimize inventory levels while still improving service and on shelf availability, efficient customer and consumer response. And more importantly, reducing in-store out of stocks. All of our new distribution centers will be up and running by early 2015.

To manage and operate this simpler brand portfolio, we've made several important organization design changes, moved to four industry-based sectors, streamlined and de-duplication of business units and selling operations, recombination of core brand building functions into one, reduction of hierarchy with all the sales operations and business unit leaders working together and working directly with Jon and with me. Each of these changes reduces complexity, each creates clearer accountability for performance and results.

We're just beginning to benefit from these opportunities to improve performance and reduce overhead costs that the organization changes create. We believe we have more opportunity to improve marketing effectiveness and efficiency in both media and non media areas while increasing overall marketing effectiveness and improving top line growth.

When we get brand and product innovation right, source and sell brands and products effectively and efficiently, we grow and we drive meaningful value creation. We generate higher sales and profit per unit which enables us to capture greater share of the value, profit, and cash where we choose to compete. It is this share of value, the share of profit and cash that is generated that we really want to focus on and, if we can, disproportionately capture.

Today we have about a 60 share of US laundry market sales but earn approximately 85% of the profit and cash generated in the entire category, and nearly 70 share of grooming business worldwide. And about a 90 share of value or profit. This disproportionate capture of category value is a direct result and reflection of our business strategy and our business models.

There's been some discussion in this context about whether premium priced brands and products are still drivers of growth and value creation. And I want to comment on this a briefly this morning.

We are shopper and consumer led. Their wants and needs come first. We meet those needs with differentiated brands and better performing products, priced to deliver real and perceived consumer value.

In all four industry sectors, and in most of our businesses, there is as much and often more sales growth and value creation, profit and cash, in the premium and super premium segments. We've had some success in these segments.

In the grooming market, premium products generate about 43% of category sales. Gillette has an 88 share of the segment. Four years ago we introduced Fusion ProGlide priced at the higher end of the premium segment.

Fusion grew global value share for 31 consecutive quarters, reaching $1 billion in sales faster than any other P&G brand or any other Gillette shaving system in history. Fusion has been very successful in developing markets which account for 25% of the brand's and product line's total business.

In countries where Fusion has been in the market for several years, it has earned value shares that rival those of the best developed markets. In South Korea we have a 45 share and in Russia a 33% share, for example.

Last month we launched the newest product in the Fusion line-up, FlexBall is the first razor designed to respond to the contours of a man's face maintaining maximum contact and delivering a closer more complete and more comfortable shave. End markets -- sorry -- premarket men preferred FlexBall two to one versus the then best selling razor in the world, our own Fusion ProGlide.

FlexBall is off to a very good start and appears to be revitalizing consumer interest in the category. While it's only been available a couple of months, we've seen a 30% spike in male razor category value in the US and acceleration in cartridge sales and shares.

Crest 3D White premium oral care regimen was also launched in the US and grew market share for 17 consecutive quarters. Expanded worldwide and has become $1 billion business.

3D White has been an important driver of toothpaste market share growth in Brazil and Mexico, adding about 1.5 points of share in Brazil and 1 point in Mexico. We recently launched 3D White in Spain, France and Australia, early results are encouraging with growth in both category and our market share.

In Western Europe the oral care category grew 3.5% in value this last quarter in a region where many other categories are declining 1% to 2%. 3D White is a big driver of that category growth.

Following up on the 3D White launch we introduced Crest 3D White Luxe toothpaste and white strips. The toothpaste removes up to 90% of surface stains on teeth in just 5 days and protects against future states with a proprietary technology. The white strips with FlexFit stretch and mold to your teeth for a custom fit.

Tide, Gain, and Ariel unit does laundry detergents have been an innovation breakthrough, resetting the bar for delightful usage experience, product performance and convenience in the laundry detergent category. Tide Pods have priced at a 20% premium to base liquid Tide and have grown to over 7% of the laundry category.

In March we launched Gain Flings, their version of Pods, priced at a 60% per use premium to Gain liquid detergent. Flings have already grown to nearly 3% value share. Combined Tide Pods and Gain Flings now hold a more than 10% value share of the US laundry category and over 80% of the unit-dose segment.

We now offer this innovative product in over 50 countries. In several other markets including Japan and China we recently launched a single chamber unit dose product setting the stage for future upgrades as the unit dose segment develops. In Japan, Ariel and Bold unit dose detergents are off to a strong start, achieving a 9% value share in just 3 months.

Managing a brand and product portfolio is obviously a balance. In some categories where affordable pricing is a more important part of the consumer value equation, we broaden our brand, product line, package size and price offerings to serve more consumer needs. Bounty and Bounty Basic, Charmin and Charmin Basic, Pampers and Loves, Tide, Gain, and now Tide Simply Clean & Fresh.

While we would continue to compete with product innovation and brand differentiation, we will not allow ourselves to be uncompetitive on a consumer value bases in segments where we choose to play. There are times we must and will make appropriate pricing adjustments to remain competitive. We're doing this now as you know on a targeted basis in US fabric care and family care where competitors have been price discounting and promoting heavily since last calendar year.

In the end, we follow the shopper and the consumer. We meet their needs with consumer preferred P&G brands and better performing products, priced at a modest premium that delivers superior consumer value.

We are currently entering the female adult incontinence category. This is an attractive $7 billion global category growing at an annual rate of 7%. We're entering the category with consumer preferred superior performing products that deliver significant benefit advantages from Always, a brand women trust and prepare.

We began shipments of Always Discreet in the UK last month and will start shipments in the North America and France over the next few weeks. We'll be sending you more details about this exciting new product line from Always next week.

In September, we are launching Crest Sensi-Stop strips. This is a revolutionary new product technology that provides tooth sensitivity relief like never before. One strip applied for just 10 minutes delivers immediate relief and up to one month of protection from sensitivity pain for many consumers.

We're setting the brand and product innovation agenda in our industry. When we do this well, we build consumer preference for our brands, extend the level of product competitive advantage, build brand and product consumer preference cumulatively over time and capture a larger share of category value, profit, and cash.

A final area that will benefit from brand portfolio simplification is the consistency and quality of our brand building and selling execution. This execution is the only strategy our consumers and customers ever really see.

We're bringing renewed focus to brands. When we get brands right, we deeply understand consumers and we create desirable ideas, iconic equities, and become the prototype in the category.

We consistently express the brand promise with ideas that attract consumers to the products' superior benefits to create trial, purchase, lasting preference, and loyalty. This brand focus allows us to improve execution and build on those strategic brands to win ultimately with consumers.

We're also focusing selling resources to improve coverage, expertise and execution in key retail channels, wholesalers and distributors. This should lead to improved distribution, shelving, merchandising and pricing execution, to win consistently at the first moment of truth. We are and will continue to increase coverage, sector and category dedication of our sales force, and merchandisers in the store.

I'm excited by the opportunity to further elevate brand and selling execution and feel very strongly these efforts will be enabled by the portfolio focus we have embarked on. I'm working directly with sector and SMO leaders on these opportunities to profitably accelerate top line growth while Jon and the team continue leading the work on portfolio simplification and productivity.

This portfolio transformation may take a little more time than any of us would like because streamlining the brand and product portfolio will be governed by our ability to create value on every exit. When we get there, to our in effect P&G new-co with a streamlined 70 or 80 brand portfolio, this will enable faster and more sustainable growth and more reliable value creation through the end of the decade and beyond.

We will be a simpler, faster growing, more profitable company that is far easier to manage and operate. We will be a company of brands that consumers prefer and customers support. Well positioned competitively.

A company of brands simpler to source, sell, and service. This streamlined company of leadership household and personal care brands will deliver more reliable value creation for consumers and customers, partners and suppliers and will deliver reliably and sustainably total shareholder return in the top third of our industry peer group.

I look forward to updating you on our progress when we meet for our analyst meeting here in Cincinnati in November. Now I'll turn the call back to Jon to provide the details on our outlook for this year.

JON MOELLER: We continue to expect global markets in our categories to grow in value terms 2% to 3%. Against this backdrop we are currently forecasting FY15 organic sales growth of low to mid-singles.

With this level of growth, we'll maintain or modestly grow level market share on a local currency basis. We think this is a pragmatic and realistic starting point for our FY15 financial commitments.

Pricing should again be a positive contributor to organic sales growth, though likely not to the same degree we've seen over the past several years. Foreign exchange is expected to be a one point sales growth headwind.

With this level of sales growth we're forecasting mid-single-digit core earnings per share growth. We will benefit again from significant productivity savings, but like last year, these will be partially offset by FX headwinds which won't annualize at current spot rates until the back half of the year.

We have a few value corrections to make. We're also going to invest in consumer trial of preferred brands and major new product innovations that are in market and that are coming to market. We'll continue to make investments in innovation and go-to-market coverage in the fastest-growing sales channels.

Non-operating income and tax should be roughly in line with prior year levels. We are targeting to deliver 90% or better free cash flow productivity.

Our plans assume capital spending in the range of 4% to 5% of sales and share repurchase in the range of $5 billion to $7 billion. At this level share repurchase should net of option exercises contribute about one percentage point of earnings per share growth.

On an all-in GAAP basis we expect earnings per share to also grow mid-single digits including around $0.20 per share of non-core restructuring investments. In addition to the assumptions included in our guidance we want to continue to be very transparent about key items that are not included.

The guidance we're providing today is based on last week's FX spot rates. Further currency weakness, including Venezuela, is not anticipated within our guidance range. We continue to monitor unrest in several markets in the Middle East and Eastern Europe and we continue to closely monitor markets like Venezuela and Argentina where pricing controls and import restrictions present risk.

This guidance does not assume any major portfolio moves. We'll update guidance as these occur. Finally, our guidance assumes no further degradation of market growth rates.

There are a few things you should keep in mind as you construct your quarterly models. Our toughest top line comps are in the first two quarters. The top and bottom line impacts from consumer value corrections will disproportionately affect the first quarter and the first half. FX impacts will not fully annualize until the back half and productivity savings will build as the year progresses.

In summary we are pleased to have delivered an on target year on both the top and bottom lines but realize there's more work to do. We're realistic about where we stand in the journey and are excited about the path ahead.

That concludes our prepared remarks. As a reminder, business segment information is provided in our press release and will be available on slides which we've posted on our website www.pg.com following the call. A.G. and I would be happy now to take your questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions)

Bill Schmitz, Deutsche bank.

BILL SCHMITZ, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Can you give us a timeline for the sales of those 90 businesses that have been deemed non-core?

JON MOELLER: Well as A.G. said in his remarks, the timing on this is going to be governed by our ability to create value which we're committed to do as we exit these businesses, much as we've done -- exactly as we done with the prior category and brand exits. And rough order of magnitude, this is -- I would guess, Bill, though I'm not providing specific guidance, probably call it 12 to 24 months. But again, we're not going to be governed by timeline, we're going to be governed by value creation.

OPERATOR: John Faucher.

JOHN FAUCHER, ANALYST, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: Sort of continuing with this, one of the things you guys are working on is driving sort of more cost-efficient structures and I guess how do you fragment some of these brand groups or is this -- I guess can you talk a little bit about how this is making the structure less complicated as you go to this many brand groups?

And then, secondly, as you look at some of the productivity efforts, can you talk a little bit about the focus on stranded overhead? And do feel like your recent productivity will allow you to eliminate some of the potential dilution from selling off some of these businesses? Thanks.

JON MOELLER: So John, first of all, as we look at the portfolio and the way that A.G. described, we are really looking at it through a strategic lens and we're wanting to play in categories with brands, leadership brands that play to our strengths. We've talked before about the core capabilities that we believe we have as a company.

And very simply, brands that leverage those capabilities have proven over time to sustainably create value. And those that don't fully leverage those capabilities on average we've struggled with. And so part of this simplification if you will is just matching up our businesses with what we're good at. And not having to struggle with some things that we're not as good at, so that in itself is a big simplification.

You can imagine going from a company of call it 160 brands to a company of 70 or 80 brands is in itself incredibly simplifying. The number of innovation platforms that we need to focus on, the number of manufacturing platforms that we need to focus on, the number of products that we need to sell to each and every customer and distributor, so there's tremendous simplification that comes with this.

A.G. LAFLEY: To your specific question of stranded overheads, it is our objective and expectation that we will use the productivity savings that are available both through simplification that comes from portfolio focus, but also the productivity savings that come through the organization structure changes that A.G. talked about to in effect offset the stranded overhead impact. There will be some dilution as these businesses go out just as there have been with businesses that we've been divesting. But it will be on that order of magnitude and it will result primarily from the loss of operating earnings of those businesses. We will take care of the stranded overhead.

JON MOELLER: John, just a couple of additional points. I mean, this is a classic strategic choice. We want to be in the businesses we should be in, not the businesses we are in.

Secondly, it is driven by shoppers and consumers and the market primarily. We are focusing on their brand and business portfolio in the four industries that consumers actually buy and prefer. Right? That customers really support and can support.

Where we have very strong brand equities. Where our net promoter scores are higher. Where our brand positioning as well didn't differentiated and where the product performance delivers.

So it's very straightforward. And the objective is growth. The objective is balanced, profitable sales growth and much more reliable value creation. Much more reliable generation of cash primarily, but cash and profit.

In terms of the organization side, it's going to get a lot simpler. It's already begun to get simpler. A lot of this is already underway. But we just have real clarity about what a regional selling operation does and what a business unit does and they're now connected with far fewer handoffs and we will continue to improve that design to further reduce the handoffs.

And we are just going to be much more agile and much more adaptable. Much quicker inside -- much simpler inside so we can deal with all of the change and the pace outside. That's really the objective here.

We had a -- look, we had our last global leadership council meeting last week. Okay? I don't know that the number Jon -- what are there 30 to 40 people? Okay.

We now have a lead team of about 10 of us and basically the region leaders, the sector B leaders, Jon and myself, 10 to 12 of us. We meet more often. We work on the business. We get things done on a weekly, biweekly, and monthly basis.

So we're just going to be more about adaptable, we're going to be more agile. We're going to be more responsive. We're going to be able to make decisions a lot faster and turn the decisions into action in the market that really matters.

OPERATOR: Lauren Lieberman, Barclays Capital.

LAUREN LIEBERMAN, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Just two quick things. First was just around any kind of tax implications or risks from selling businesses at a very low cost basis. And then the second was, how do you think you'll be able to kind of ensure you don't lose shelf space or facings as you divest or discontinue brands? Thanks.

JON MOELLER: On the tax question Lauren, there will be some low business assets of that will be part of the portfolio that's going to be disposed. We've done a pretty good job historically about managing that through tax efficient structures. Those do take time.

Which is what we're talking about when we say that value creation will guide the pacing of the exits. So what we'll try to manage that as effectively as we can. A.G., do you want to talk about --

A.G. LAFLEY: Yes. I mean, Lauren, obviously we have anticipated the concern that you raise and a whole bunch of other concerns that we have to manage through the transition and through all the details of the execution. But I guess I'd just mention three quick examples.

One, in the US, we started out with a laundry brand portfolio of 15 brands. Okay? Today we have brand portfolio of five and over the decades, our share has increased and as we pointed out in my prepared remarks, our share is approaching 60% again. And our -- more importantly our share of the value created in that segment is at probably the highest level based on our calculations ever.

So I think there's a lot of evidence in a number of our business categories that the shopper and the consumer really don't want more assortment and more choice. They want efficient consumer response.

If you just look at what's going on in the omnichannel and pure play E-tailer environment with online shopping, we're doing a pretty doggone good subscription business. We're doing a good shopping list and automatic replenishment business because in a lot of our categories, frankly, they're low involvement and consumers want to keep their life simple and convenient. And having the leading brand, better performing products, and a good value everyday helps them keep life simple and convenient.

Two last very quick points. If you look at this company decade by decade at the end of the decade, all of our growth and value creation is driven by three things.

One, we are able to grow and continue to create value from our core established brands and businesses going into the decade. Two, we're able to create transform or acquire and build at least one major new business.

And three, we are able to move successfully into new space. Okay? Whether that's developing markets or new channels or whatever.

And I suspect in 2021 when we look back at this decade, we're going to see the same pattern. We have done a lot of analysis that shows more does not drive growth and more certainly does not drive value creation.

Absolute last point and you will know this one as well or better than I. When the team sort of got us into the beauty and personal care business between 2000 and 2007, we tripled the sales from whatever it was -- under 7 to 20 plus.

We quadrupled the profit and we did it on a half a dozen brand businesses. Pantene and Head & Shoulders, Olay and SK-II, and a trio of fragrance brands accounted for virtually all of that growth and value creation in an industry that's notorious for activity and complexity.

So I just believe very deeply that we're picking our spots in these industries that play to our strengths and our assets and we're going for it.

OPERATOR: Wendy Nicholson, Citi Research.

WENDY NICHOLSON, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: I have two questions. First, maybe for you A.G. You said at the beginning that there were several businesses that missed plan during the course of the year. And I'm curious whether that is -- or was predominantly innovation that fell sort of expectations or mis-priced products or what the problems were?

And I think you said you feel more confident about your execution ability going forward but maybe specifically why is that? Is it different people in charge or do you have a better sense of adaptability if things are going wrong? So that's question number one.

And the number two, Jon, your comments really surprised me. You said that for next year you only plan to maintain or modestly grow market share which strikes me as a very -- I don't know -- weak stance to enter the year. I mean I would think with all the innovation and all of your planned spending, you would have more confidence or more enthusiasm about your market share trends. Thanks.

JON MOELLER: Let me take the second part of that question and then I'll turn it over to A.G. Look how we're trying to establish very realistic external guidance. That frankly is reflective of the macro environment that we're in and is reflective of what we've proven ourselves capable of delivering thus far.

We delivered 3% organic sales growth this year. We are forecasting low to mid-singles next year.

We've delivered 5% core earnings per share growth this year. We are forecasting mid-singles for next year. We share completely your desire to do better than that. And as we prove that capability, if and as we prove that capability, guidance will reflect that.

A.G. LAFLEY: Wendy, on your first question, first to be very clear about what I said, if just a couple -- two -- businesses had delivered their operating plans, we would've achieved our internal goals of 4, 7, 5 operating and generated of course even more cash. Just two, okay?

The issues were different. In one business, frankly, they let their pricing get out of line. And the thing that was frustrating about it is it was out of line and for whatever reason, I don't feel like the team came to grips with that reality fast enough. Okay?

It's being faxed. It's happened before in this category. We know how to fix it. It will get fixed. And ironically it was a business that had like a 10 or 12 year run of very strong balanced growth and value creation.

In the other case, we got our nose ahead of the tips of our skis on an investment in a new line of brands and products and we just need to get back to the discipline, okay, of testing and qualifying major investments that we're going to make. Hey, there's a lot of risk in the product innovation side.

There's a lot of risk when you're making investments in the marketplace, but we try also and we have a track record of and when we're performing to our capability, we do a reasonably good job of testing things before we expand them and we just got the investment way ahead of the actual results in the marketplace. Those are the two.

The thing I feel good about -- I should say, is -- and my team knows this. Is I actually feel very good that more of our businesses are executing better, are sharpening their strategies and translating it into operating plans, and that our execution is improving but this is an intensely executional industry. And we just absolutely have to be at the top of our game. You know? All the time.

JON MOELLER: And just one more point on this. While we did have problems in a couple businesses as A.G. described we had many businesses that had the best year they've had in a long time.

A.G. LAFLEY: That's right.

JON MOELLER: So for instance our Duracell business had a fantastic year. Our salon professional business had one of its best years in quite a long period of time so there are many more things working than not working.

OPERATOR: Dara Mohsenian, Morgan Stanley.

DARA MOHSENIAN, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: So A.G., on the portfolio rationalization, can you discuss why you're implementing it now? The met strategy makes sense but what's kind of changed that's driving you to undertake this now? You'd previously outlined that 90% of the business was core and you expected divestitures.

I'm assuming the brand rationalization announcement today includes those businesses you already expected to divest or should we look at this as rationalization on top of that? And then last just given the process will take one to two years are you committed to staying on board as CEO for as long as at least the bulk of the brand rationalization process takes?

A.G. LAFLEY: Okay. Dara, stop me if I don't capture all of your question. Okay. Last question first.

The Board -- I'm serving at the pleasure of the Board and criteria driven. We are not schedule driven. Okay?

So obviously I wanted to drive this strategy and accelerate it but that's totally driven by our understanding of shopper and consumer needs and wants and the realities, okay, of the marketplace. Whether we're talking about channels and customers. Whether we're talking about competitive factors or whatever. So this is purely consumer market and competitive driven strategic choice.

Second thing is we are already underway, okay? So this is a continuation and acceleration.

I mean, we're underway and on the portfolio pruning. I just want to accelerate it. Okay?

We're underway on the organization redesign. I just want to accelerate it.

We're underway on the major restructuring and productivity savings that were announced 2 to 2.5 years ago. I just want to get it to a logical endpoint for the first phase so that we can focus on operating with excellence and growing this business and performing at our peak. And I'm sorry, the third part of the question was, Dara, remind me.

DARA MOHSENIAN: Just why now specifically. I mean it makes sense but what drove you to make the change at this point?

A.G. LAFLEY: Okay. Look. In an ideal world, okay? In an ideal world, we would've done this at the depth of the financial crisis and recession.

That would've been the perfect time to do it if you think about it., right, dramatically focus. dramatically simplify. Get the cash flowing. Right?

And then once the bank is full, bide your time until the market starts to come again. Right? That would've been perfect.

If we work Monday morning quarterbacks I could look over the last 40 years, that would've been the perfect time. But I missed. We missed some of that opportunity, and frankly when you're in the middle of a financial crisis, when you're watching oil approach $150 a barrel and chaos is reigning around you in the biggest recession since the 30s, you always -- you don't always have the time to think through or the resources to act on a transformation of this size and scope.

But having said that, I don't see any reason to wait. I don't see any virtue in waiting another minute.

And I guess the last thing I would say is just think about what we're going to undertake. I don't want to go out and spend $1 billion round numbers on totally redoing the sourcing and supply chain in North America and do it for the wrong business. Shape and size.

That would be a terrible mistake. Right? So in a lot of other places, we are making investments that are going to make this company stronger, help us operate better et cetera and we have to make sure that we're doing this for the business that we think we're going to have and we think we are going to run for at least the next 5 plus years or so.

OPERATOR: Olivia Tong, Bank of America.

OLIVIA TONG, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Can you talk about what other strategies you've considered? Why is this the right strategy? Why doesn't this at least in the interim take some focus away from fixing issues in the 70 to 80 brands that you are planning on keeping?

A.G. LAFLEY: I don't see any trade-off there, Olivia. In other words, we will have more talents, more resource, financial, and people, against the 70 to 80 brands. So I mean, we're -- we have been all over several of those businesses and frankly I'm involved with 10 to 15 of them working with the leadership teams. So I don't see any trade-off.

Now, I won't tell you that we haven't taken on extra work for another year. Year and a half. Maybe at most for parts of it.

As Jon said, it may be the last disposals are as far as 18 to 24 months away, but no. Job one is take care of shoppers and consumers, work with our customers and suppliers, and deliver the operating plans and commitments on the 70 to 80 core brands that make up the portfolio that's going to drive this company ahead.

OPERATOR: Chris Ferrara, Wells Fargo.

CHRIS FERRARA, ANALYST, WELLS FARGO SECURITIES, LLC: A.G, you highlighted P&G following the consumer as it relates to innovation at premium side of categories and at higher-priced categories and I think you called out the success of the innovation in high end laundry as an example. Now, I understand that you don't report laundry standalones but fabric and home was up 1% organically.

The Nielsen data in the US shows share erosion and even following the launch activity. Obviously there was a lot of competition there with a lot of deep discounting. You responded with your own deep discounting.

I guess is this an anomaly what's happened in this category? How do you reconcile that with the view that innovation is successful at the high end at least in this category?

A.G. LAFLEY: Okay. Chris, let's go through this one in some detail because I think it's instructive. If you have the patience, we'll go through one or two others because I think they are instructive too.

But let's just take US laundry and let's go back to about a year ago in early September when we were at Barclays. You may recall that we announced a series of fabric care category brand and product innovations that would be coming to market in the middle or end of the first quarter of 2014. I think we said at the time that they included the extension and expansion of our Pods product innovation to Gain and Ariel and to other countries like China and Japan which I spoke about.

We announced strengthening of our heavy-duty liquid product offerings, the so called value added offerings to meet consumer needs that were unmet. I announced the introduction of Tide Simply Clean & Fresh to meet unmet consumer needs in the mid tier segment of the category. I think at the time we pointed out that virtually all of the category growth and most of our P&G sales growth and value creation would come from the Pods and the value-added heavy-duty liquid brands and product lines.

So let's look at what happened. Well, in September and October, the media and many of our analysts commented on the program and 95% of the commentary was on Tide Simply Clean.

In October, November, and December, our three main economy competitors all unleashed a series of essentially price rollbacks and price discounting and temporary promotion after temporary promotion, all of which has continued to the present. We started shipping in mid-to late February and frankly we couldn't keep up with all of the demand of our customers so we were probably well-established in stores at retail by March and the beginning of April.

Now let's look at what's going on with the market shares. Week-by-week from let's say the time that we really got established by retail. Well, lo and behold, we've increased market share every week. Okay? And if you look at our past 52-week share and compare it to our past 4-week share, we're up a full share point.

Now, what else went on the market? Well, with all of that spending by the economy players, they essentially took dollars out of the category, which concerned some of the retailers and basically they traded cases, dollars, and share and made less profit on the ones they traded.

So yes. There was a winner in that group. But there were also losers in that group.

I think there's some indication -- we think there's some early indications that maybe we've reached the point where it's pretty clear about what the middle and premium part of this category is going to look like and what the economy part of this category is going to look like. And then if we turn to Tide Simply, I think we said last September that the worst-case scenario would be we'd get a big share and we'd cannibalize from ourselves. Well, we've gotten a medium sized share, frankly about what we thought it might be and we still don't know where it'll end of because it still only got 50% plus retail distribution and relatively low trial rates among its target but over 60% of it has been net extra to us.

So I don't look at this week versus the same week a year ago. I don't look at this quarter versus the same quarter a year ago. I look at shares over time.

We're on our way, we think back to a 60% share. We have only had a 60% share of dollars a few times in the history of this company and in fact peaked at about a 62% to 63% when one of our principal competitors withdrew from the market back in 2007. But we have a higher share, the highest share we've ever had of the value created. So that's how we think about it.

I know I've gone on a bit but I just want to mention a couple of others so that you get the point. We didn't talk about it this morning but in our diaper business in the US and North America, we rather quietly moved back to share leadership which we lost 20 years ago when our competitors bought training pants to market and we recaptured it in the last 18 months and we've opened up a spread of almost 6 points -- 6 share points on diapers and I think a couple of points plus on the whole baby care category. That counts wipes and some of the other product lines. But how did we do that? Okay?

How did we do that without pants? Well, we did it because our baby stage of developments line of products, and particularly Swaddlers which is unique, consumer preferred, et cetera, has just cumulatively year after year slowly but surely increased its trial, increased its share, and is now just in and of its own right a $600 million sub brand that we think, now that we offer Swaddlers in all sizes, now we're finding moms actually prefer the design, could become $1 billion business. So my only point is, I want to look at the cumulative impact of our brands and our products.

Last point. In 2007, we introduced a novel totally new proprietary product and technology on Always. It was called infinity. I think we weren't as clear as we could be with consumers about what the product was and what it did but without boring you on all the details, it is a very unique ultra-thin product, far and away the best absorbing. This past year we had all kinds of issues trying to get a totally new technology and manufacturing process started up.

We struggled as I said to connect with consumers but this last year we did over $200 million on Always Infinity. We've now expanded into parts of Asia and parts of Europe.

It represented 15% to 20% of our growth. It's a clearly superior product. Women who have tried it and purchased it are repurchasing it at a rate of 60% to 70%.

So I actually see across most of our categories, brands and products that are really unique and/or highly differentiated that when properly presented to consumers, when the value is clearly explained, and if they have a chance to try it, that we can drive a lot of conversion. And final point, I'm not going to take you through the details but virtually every brand and product line we sell, even in the US, is dramatically under tried. Dramatically under tried.

So we will be back at ensuring that consumers who are prospects for these brands and product lines have a chance to really try the product and give it a chance. Sorry Chris. I went on a long time but I wanted to make the broader point about brand differentiation, product superiority and consumer preference.

OPERATOR: Nik Modi, RBC Capital Markets.

NIK MODI, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: A.G., maybe you can just provide a little bit more context on the streamlined portfolio. Will there be a geographic angle for this as well or is it just the 80 brands that we are going to focus on globally, or if you look at it on India or Venezuela or Brazil, are there certain brands that maybe you'll pull back from even though they're a global brand? Thanks.

A.G. LAFLEY: Okay. Understandable question. I'm going to -- hopefully I'll be able to answer this as clearly as possible.

Remember Nik we are shopper and consumer driven. That means we're -- all of the shopping and consumption occurs locally. So if and when we get this right, we'll have the right mix of brands, product lines and SKUs for China.

We'll have the right mix for Brazil. We'll have the right mix for the Arabian Peninsula and Turkey. We'll have the right mix for India and the Sub-Sahara. Okay?

So this is totally shopper and consumer driven. We looked at the real growth and value creation potential. And as I pointed out, these are brands that for some time have been not delivering on that front. Okay?

So yes. If we get this right we will have the right -- we will not be short of brands or products to win in any market we choose to compete in. And eventually I think as you know, that's going to mean all the emerging markets of the world because that's where the demographics will be driving us. That's where the babies are born, that's where the households form, that's where incomes are rising so we think this positions just as well in emerging markets as it does in any developed market.

JON MOELLER: If you think about the screen we talked about earlier Nik which is businesses that play to our strengths, typically when we are operating a business that does play to our strengths, we can operate that business globally. So this is not a -- there's not a geographic frame to this. It's as A.G. said, consumers, shoppers match with P&G strengths.

A.G. LAFLEY: Yes, and Nik just one more thing, so again in an attempt to help everyone understand, in some cases, it's simple. We sell one brand name everywhere in the world. Pampers. Pantene. Okay?

In some we sell two. Always Whisper.

In some of our lines in fabric, in home, in beauty and personal care, we sell what we call clone brands. Okay?

So the principal brand might be Rejoice but it -- we sell Rejoice under a different name. Okay? In individual markets because that's sort of the history of the brand.

We keep those brands. Same in laundry, same in cleaning.

So we're very practical. We are very consumer and customer driven and we worked outside in from the markets to our brands and then to our business categories and sectors.

OPERATOR: Ali Dibadj, Bernstein.

ALI DIBADJ, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & COMPANY, INC.: So before I get to the question and I often hate doing this but I think it's worth just a comment because I've heard it from many investors. I'm not sure you did yourselves many favors on the -- in the press release not talking about the quarter really at all. So we all got to page 13 or whatever it was saying that there's some rounding and beauty was down three but there's no explanation. I'm not sure you did yourself any favors, so just for the sake of it heard from a lot of people, wanted to put it out there.

The question though more is around just again learning more about this very interesting structural change. So it feels like I think most people's in-going assumption was 10% of the business that was going to be divested was going to be more along business segment lines and now I think you're flipping a little bit and talking about it from a branding line. So I want to understand that if that's true and then a few questions that come out of that.

One is lots of changes and the rationale is focus, which I get. But where do you know where the right balances? So why isn't something even further like a bigger break up not the right answer? How did you make that decision?

And then also from a focus perspective, if these brands are going to sell, are about 10% of the sales, 5% of operating profit, can you give us a sense of how much of your time, management's time and resources were on those? And then last, want to go back to a question from before, I give you another chance. If A.G. the Board says we want you here through this 12 to 24 month period, big transition period, we trust you to do this, do you want to be there for that time? Thanks for all those.

A.G. LAFLEY: Criteria driven. I'm having fun. I'm full of energy. I'm 24/7 so that will take care of the last one.

JON MOELLER: If my e-mail volume is any indication, it's just backs up what A.G. said. He's here and working hard.

A.G. LAFLEY: Second point Ali. It's strategy first. Structure second. Right? Structure supports strategy.

Third point is still -- ultimately it's about competitive advantage and value creation. Right?

So we don't see -- we see competitive advantage and multi-industry sector participation. We see competitive advantage in technologies that flow across categories and industries. We see competitive advantage in sourcing as a company. And providing information and other services as a company and purchasing as a company.

So when we do the math on the value creation, we get to this choice -- strategic choice. This set of businesses has the potential to be the biggest value creator. Right? Which should be in the interest not only of our company but also of our shareowners.

But yes. The balance point is a very fair one. And I'm not going to tell you that any of us are good enough to get this precisely right, and you know what? We'll adjust as we go.

I can't tell you whether a 50 brand company might not be a little bit better than a 70 brand company. If you see what I mean. Okay?

The last point to your direct question is a management distraction is episodic, intermittent, and not the driver. The activity and complexity that clogs us up is the real issue. Okay?

Let's just take SKUs. Okay? I don't know what the end result will be here. It's being worked business by business and iteratively but believe me the SKU reduction will be a lot bigger than the 10% of the sales line or revenue line.

Let's take product lines. The same. Okay?

So all of a sudden, one of the reasons that a number of our businesses have performed better is because the businesses and the R&D team and I all sat down in July and we've sat down several times since and we just pruned out the bottom 10%, 20%, 30%, 40%, of the activity and focused on a few others and that has accelerated better products to market. The businesses -- some of the businesses that Jon mentioned and other businesses that did really well this last year did well because they were extremely focused.

The last point, and I could use a whole bunch of different examples here, when you're carrying the bag, I'll use the old metaphor, with all the P&G brands and product lines in it, to a distributor or wholesaler or to one of our sophisticated retail customers, believe me, it is a huge advantage to be selling fewer, leading consumer and shopper preferred brands and product lines.

OPERATOR: Michael Steib, Credit Suisse.

MICHAEL STEIB, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: I have a couple questions please. A.G. you mentioned, you emphasized really the importance of having the right balance between premium priced products on the one hand and affordable products on the other hand. Where the consumer demands it.

I was wondering in the core brand portfolio of 70 to 80 brands that you have identified now, do you think that that balance is right at this point? And in other words, should the sort of negative mix effect on the top line going forward be less of a headwind once you've gone through these various disposals? That's my first question.

And then Jon, forgive me just for asking a financial question but given your outlook for FY15, you suggested that essentially the top line growth is going to be against tough comps in the first half and cost savings will build through the year. Should we therefore expect earnings growth to be sort of flattish in the first half and it all come good in the second half? Thanks.

JON MOELLER: A couple things and one on the expectation of the reduction and negative mix on the top line as we go forward. That will in all likelihood continue. We've been pretty clear about that.

It's driven by disproportionate growth in developing markets which we expect to continue. And as we move consumers up those portfolios over time, that impact will lessen. As developed markets growth is reinvigorated that dynamic will lessen but it has been with us and will likely be with us for some period of time.

On the guidance question, we are not providing quarterly guidance. But all the dynamics that you talked about are the right ones.

I think you are focused on the right things and I'd encourage you to follow-up with the IR team later today. And I'll let A.G handle the question on whether we're priced right broadly or --

A.G. LAFLEY: Yes. Michael let me try to make a couple of strategic points and then I'll try to give you some insight into where we think we are at this moment in time.

The first thing is incredibly important and often not well understood. That is the issue in our industry, in household products and personal care products is almost always consumer perception of value.

Value has different drivers in different categories and different brands. Price is one of them. Okay?

Price is one of them. But brand awareness and trial rates and household penetration, brand equity. Okay? Product performance also are incredibly important.

Second point. We have a huge opportunity to get a lot clearer with consumers about what the value equation really is.

I'm going to give you a specific example from Gillette. We talked earlier that we just introduced FlexBall and it's off to a good start and we'll see how it does. All right?

We did premarket research in a blind context so they don't know what the brand is. And the new FlexBall razor was preferred 2 to 1 by system users versus the best performing product in the market which happened to be our ProGlide.

We are now in the market four, six, eight, weeks. We went out and did a 400 male person panel where we asked them to use the new FlexBall razor versus whatever they are using today so we had disposable users. We had shave club users, we had system users, we had electric razor users. 95% of them preferred the FlexBall. 95%.

Interestingly, a lot of disposable users, by the way half the world, okay, uses a disposable razor today. The interesting thing is disposable users often say they use disposables because they think it shaves just as well as a system. Many of them have never used a system. And they think it's a better value.

So their first belief, if they try and use the FlexBall, they see it is a totally different experience and results. And then the second thing is when you ask them what they think the price is or the cost is or the value is, they always say it's way more expensive and when we tell them you can have a cartridge for $1 a week, they're astounded. And then we show them the math.

So my only point here is if you just read the Wall Street Journal, okay? Or if you just listen to the anecdotes in the Street or if you look at the $50 for 10 cartridge pricing in some retail establishments, you may perceive that the price is high but the actual price per use and the actual quality and performance of the use is better. And that's incredibly important.

Now to the direct question. I said in my prepared remarks, we're in some businesses where the price point doesn't matter or in fact a higher price point is better. I sell more SK-II when my price point is better.

We sell a lot of Oral-B electric toothbrushes at very high price points and I could go on, on, on throughout our line. But if you step back and look at all of our businesses around the world, we are in the best shape we've been in in three years in terms of our relative pricing. In other words, we have the smallest percentage of our total business that has a price gap and is losing share and here's the important part. The three biggest opportunities are tissue towel, in North America, which is Bounty and Charmin and laundry which Chris asked me about earlier all of which are being addressed. Okay?

Interesting point there. On laundry is major retailers are sort of discounting Tide 15% to 20%. It's still a better deal for them because Tide at a 15% discount is a higher price and generates more value for them than the balance of the category.

Last point on this one. The number of opportunities we have where we are priced below where we should be, or mixing below where we should be are as large or greater than the opportunities we have to adjust our price.

OPERATOR: Steve Powers, UBS.

STEVE POWERS, ANALYST, UBS: Believe it or not a few more questions. If I could. First, Jon, maybe I missed it but did you offer any cost or timing estimates associated with the supply chain restructuring that you're undertaking?

And then second, taking a step back, you are clearly making progress on the cost-cutting especially in SG&A. But the top line continues to lag a bit. This quarter it does feel like you rounded up 2% organic growth in the quarter. So does it make sense to drop all these marketing efficiencies to the bottom line or should you be reinvesting even more aggressively?

And then lastly, maybe related to that A.G., as you said it all starts with the consumer. And you guys have been long known for leading consumer insight capabilities, so what specifically is the consumer telling you that you need to do better in the market that you're not doing? And maybe you could just talk about that in the context of beauty for example. Thanks.

JON MOELLER: In terms of the marketing, I mean, we're perfectly to happen to reinvest and are looking for opportunities to reinvest and feel that we can do that and continue to become both more effective and more efficient. We are going through a transformation in this industry that we want to take advantage of while remaining fully in front of consumers with our marketing efforts.

So we look at things like the reach, the frequency, the targets that we're reaching, the conversion rates on the messaging, and that's much more important than actual dollars spent given what's happened in that industry. But you should not mistake this for a second as lack of willingness to invest behind smart ideas to build the top line.

A.G. LAFLEY: Yes. We are maintaining or increasing our investment in marketing that works. And we are driving savings in frankly non-working dollars or other efficiencies that you get from the move to more digital, mobile, social, et cetera.

On the consumer insight side, that is the focus, the sole focus of a lot of people in this organization and again I think we had a lot of activity going on and we weren't relentless about digging, digging, digging for shopper insights and consumer insights. Very simple thing.

The mindset at Gillette was to test the new system with system users. You sort of slap yourself in the forehead and say, well, wait a second. Everybody grooms.

Some people do a clean shave. Some people do a sculptured groom in the face. Some people body groom.

Let's first of all understand what the job to be done is and then second of all, let's make sure we're putting together instruments, okay? And experiences that meet all the needs so we are going to sell an opening price point disposable razor from Gillette at $2 to $3 and we'll take you all the way up to $200 to $300 if you want to buy an Art of Shaving product or a top of the line Braun product.

Specifically, regarding beauty, look here's the headline on beauty. In terms of value creation, they were one of the better performing sectors this last year. Unfortunately it was a little unbalanced. Too much of the value creation came from cash and profit improvement. Although I'll take it and there's a lot more there.

Secondly, the progress we are making, okay, on the Old Spices and Safeguard's, some of the hair care brands we had -- we showed some real progress on Pantene in a lot of important countries around the world. Still not the progress I would like in the US, we had a little bit of share pick up in the first quarter, which excited some of our competitors and it turned into a second quarter that was heavily promoted. But at any rate we'll get through that.

But Pantene is growing very strongly in important places like Brazil, it was growing sequentially in China. It's growing in a lot of developed and emerging markets and I can see the product program starting to come. Head and Shoulders has just gone from strength to strength. Herbal is growing again. Vidal is growing again in key markets so I think that's going to come.

And then before the year was out, even on Olay which is still struggling, we have some real encouragement in a couple of places. We had two of the top five new facial cleanser products, two of the top five new facial moisturizer products and this line called Luminous is actually driving a little bit of share growth in the past couple of months.

So the bigger point, okay? The bigger point is the one you made which is everything begins with shopper understanding and consumer understanding. And when we have it and understand it, that informs importantly and allows us to do a much better job with our brand idea and our product pipeline and portfolio.

JON MOELLER: I want to thank everybody for joining us this morning. I realize we did not get to everybody, it's a cheap substitute but I'm available the balance of the day. Don't hesitate to call. John and the team are here as well. And we thank you for your participation.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, that concludes today's conference. Thank you for your participation. You may now disconnect and have a great day.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
prgml : The Procter & Gamble Company
   IN
i258 : Cosmetics/Toiletries | icnp : Consumer Goods | ipcare : Personal Care Products/Appliances
   NS
c151 : Earnings | cgvfil : Government Filings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020140803ea810030f
  


 HD
 Q3  2014 The  Procter  & Gamble Company Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
11,114 words
   PD
23 April 2014
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©014 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good morning and welcome to Procter & Gamble 's Quarter End conference call.

   TD
Today's discussion will include a number of forward-looking statements. If you will refer to P&G 's most recent 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K reports, you will see a discussion of factors that could cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from these projections.

As required by Regulation G, P&G needs to make you aware that during the call, the Company will make a number of references to non-GAAP and other financial measures. Management believes these measures provide investors valuable information on the underlying growth trends of the business.

Organic refers to reported results, excluding the impact of acquisitions and divestitures and foreign exchange, where applicable. Free cash flow represents operating cash flow less capital expenditures.

Free cash flow productivity is the ratio of free cash flow to net earnings. Any measure described as core refers to the equivalent GAAP measure adjusted for certain items.

P&G has posted on its website, www.PG.com, a full reconciliation of non-GAAP and other financial measures. Now I will turn the call over to P&G 's Chief Financial Officer, Jon Moeller .

JON MOELLER , CFO, THE PROCTER & GAMBLE COMPANY : Thanks and good morning.

Our January - March results came in as we had expected, keeping us on track to deliver our fiscal year objectives. All-in sales were unchanged versus the prior year, including a 3-point headwind from foreign exchange.

Organic sales grew more than 3% in a very challenging macro environment, with significant market-level events in places like Venezuela, Argentina and the Ukraine, declining levels of market growth in both the developed and developing world, and weather-related issues in North America. Organic sales were at or above prior-year levels in each of our five reporting segments.

Organic sales growth was driven by strong organic volume growth of 3%. Volume was at or above prior-year levels in each of our five reporting segments.

Pricing added 1 point to sales growth and mix-reduced sales growth by 1 point. Fiscal year to date, we've delivered between 3% and 4% organic sales growth, leaving us on track to deliver 3% to 4% organic sales growth for the fiscal year.

Marked quarter all-in GAAP earnings per share were $0.90. All-in earnings per share include approximately $0.04 per share of non-core restructuring charges and $0.10 per share of non-core balance sheet revaluation impacts resulting from foreign exchange policy changes in Venezuela.

Core gross margin declined 110 basis points. Cost savings of 200 basis points, pricing, and volume leverage were offset by product, category, and geographic mix of 150 basis points, foreign exchange headwinds of 100 basis points, and higher commodity costs.

Core SG&A improved 130 basis points, driven by marketing efficiencies and overhead productivity savings. Importantly, therefore, core operating margin increased 20 basis points. Core earnings per share grew 5% to $1.04, leaving us on track to deliver 3% to 5% core earnings per share growth for the fiscal year.

Foreign exchange was a $0.12-per-share headwind for the Company on the quarter. Excluding foreign exchange, core earnings per share grew 17%.

The effective tax rate on core earnings was about 20%. Tax accounted for roughly $0.03 of earnings per share benefit on the quarter versus the prior year.

We generated $3.2 billion in free cash flow, achieving 119% free cash flow productivity and remaining on track to deliver free cash flow productivity of about 90% for the fiscal year.

As planned, we returned $1.7 billion of cash to shareholders in dividends. We also announced a 7% increase in our dividend.

P&G has now been paying a dividend for 124 consecutive years, since its incorporation in 1890. This is the 58th consecutive year the Company has increased its dividend. We repurchased $1.5 billion in stock, bringing year-to-date share repurchase to $5.5 billion.

Stepping back, we are satisfied with our top line growth, particularly against the difficult macro backdrop. Constant currency earnings progress was very strong. We are reliably converting earnings to cash and are building on our strong track record of cash returned to shareholders.

As we move forward, value creation for consumers and shareowners remains our top priority. Operating TSR is our primary business performance measure.

Operating TSR is an integrated measure of value creation at the business unit level, requiring sales growth, margin progress, and strong cash flow productivity. Operating TSR drives focus on core brands and businesses -- our leading, most profitable categories, and leading most profitable markets.

Our strongest brands and business unit and total Company positions are in the US. We need to continue to ensure our home market stays strong and growing.

The actions we've taken over the past two years to restore consumer value, expand our vertical product portfolios and horizontal regimens, and lead innovation have enabled us to restore value-creating share growth in more parts of the business. We still have a lot more work to do; and the competitive environment is intense, which leads to choppy results on a quarter-to-quarter basis, but we are making steady progress.

We'll continue to grow and expand our business in developing markets, with a focus on the categories and countries with the largest sizes of prize and the highest likelihood of winning. This is where the world's babies will be born and where more new households will be formed. Developing markets will continue to be a significant growth driver for our Company this year and for years to come.

We'll continue to focus the Company's portfolio, allocating resources to businesses where we can create value. Over the past six years, we've exited businesses that have accounted for over $6 billion in sales, including coffee, pharmaceuticals, snacks, kitchen appliances, and water purification.

Last quarter, we announced our exit from the bleach business; two weeks ago, we announced our plan to exit the pet food business. Mars will buy our business in the Americas and several other countries. We expect to sell the European business to a different buyer.

The $2.9 billion purchase price Mars has agreed to pay for the non-European business represents a 1.8 times multiple of sales and an 18X multiple of EBITDA on an average of the past two years' sales and profits for the global pet food business.

We will begin the process of selecting a buyer for the European business in May; early interest in this asset is strong. We'll continue to exit businesses where we determine that potential buyers with different capability sets can create more value than ourselves.

Consistent with our focus on operating TSR, we are continuing to drive productivity and cost savings. We've made solid progress over the last fiscal year-and-a-half. We have strong productivity plans for FY14, and we are accelerating some FY15 savings into FY14.

Versus our target run rate of $1.2 billion, we are now forecasting about $1.6 billion of cost-of-goods productivity savings this fiscal year across materials, logistics, and manufacturing expense. Versus a going-in target of 5%, we expect to improve manufacturing productivity by at least 6% this year. We are up more than 7% fiscal year to date.

At the CAGNY conference, we announced the complete redesign of our end-to-end supply chain in North America. We operate 35 manufacturing facilities in North America today, only 6 of which are multi-business or multi-category.

We are consolidating operations into multi-category sites located closer to the customers and consumers we serve, allowing us to respond quickly to their needs and provide better service at the best possible cost. We are examining the potential for similar improvements in Europe.

At the same time, we are converting to common manufacturing and technology platforms for faster innovation, qualification, and expansion. We're designing supply systems to allow for more online product differentiation and customization.

We are also transforming our distribution operations, consolidating customer shipping and product customization operations into fewer distribution centers, which are strategically located closer to key customers and key population centers, enabling 80% of the business to be within one day of the store shelf and the shopper.

All of this will drive step-change improvement and responsiveness, reducing out-of-stocks, taking down inventory, and lowering cost. It will leverage the scale and scope of our production and distribution network in a way we've never done before.

Savings from this transformation will accrue over three to four years and should be in the range of $200 million to $300 million annually, which will be incremental to the $6 billion of cost-of-goods savings we have previously communicated. We expect additional top- and bottom-line benefits from improved service levels.

Turning to overhead, we've exceeded our FY14 non-manufacturing enrollment reduction goals and have accelerated over 1,000 role reductions originally planned for FY15 into 2014. Through March, we are down 8,000 roles, or 13%.

Our stretch objective is to get substantially to our end 2015 objectives by the end of 2014. This would put us close to or within the 16% to 22% reduction goal we've established one to two years ahead of target.

Underpinning this progress are some important and fundamental changes in our organization structure and focus. We've organized into four industry-based sectors, or global business units.

The businesses in each sector are focused on common consumer benefits and needs; they share common technologies. They partner with common customers and common trade channels, and they face common competitors.

These sectors, or global business units, are big enough for scale and small enough to stay in touch with consumers and markets and move with the agility and flexibility to consistently grow value. We've made a significant clarification in roles and announced a significant de-duplication of effort between the GBUs and the go-to-market operations.

GBUs will create, design, manufacture and market our brands and products. They will be the focus of brand-building at the global, regional, and local levels. Brand franchise-building resources will be in the GBUs.

We've changed the name of our go-to-market organizations from MDO to SMO, Sales and Market Operations. This is more than a name change. It clarifies the work SMOs need to do and the work they do best: superior, effective, and efficient selling, distribution, shelving, pricing execution, and merchandising every day/every week in every store.

Selling resources will be concentrated in the SMOs. We are aggregating the SMOs to be more logically focused on the consumers, channels, customers, and markets we serve.

We are merging Western, Central and Eastern Europe into one European organization. We are merging India, the Middle East, and Africa into one IMEA region. We are more fully integrating Greater China, ASEAN, Australia, New Zealand, Japan, and Korea into one Asia SMO region over the next year.

Within the SMOs, we will aggregate countries at a higher level, reducing the number of geographic country clusters to about 25, a 20% reduction versus today.

Back in the GBUs, we are moving from four desegregated brand-building functions -- design, consumer and market understanding, communications, and marketing -- into one integrated brand-building or brand-management organization.

We've embedded resources that are required to win in the GBUs and SMOs, reducing the size of the standalone support functions, flowing those resources to work, and outsourcing more of their activities.

The changes I've just described are significant. They will reduce interfaces and transaction costs, clarify who is accountable for what, de-duplicate effort, and simplify operations.

These changes will enable us to operate with more agility and speed, to operate with clearer accountability and effectiveness, and to operate at a lower cost. It will also enable further enrollment reduction.

Moving next to marketing expense, we continue to drive marketing effectiveness and productivity through an optimized media mix with more digital, mobile, search, and social presence; improved message clarity; and greater non-advertising marketing efficiency.

We expect marketing spending to come in below prior-year levels, due to productivity improvements in non-working marketing and advertising costs. Importantly, the overall effectiveness in the consumer impact of our advertising spending will be well ahead of the prior year.

While acknowledging the progress I've just described across cost of goods, overhead, and marketing, you may be asking yourself -- Where have all the savings gone?

This year, a disproportionate number of them have gone to offset FX. We have leading positions in some of the markets where currencies have softened the most: Japan, Venezuela, the Ukraine, Russia, and Turkey.

As I mentioned earlier, January to March earnings per share would be 17% ahead of year ago on a constant currency basis. Year to date, constant currency core earnings per share is up 11%.

Partially as a result of devaluation, we are seeing significant wage inflation in developing markets, which we also need to offset. And we're making targeted investments in innovation and in selling coverage to drive growth. The majority of the offset, though, has been FX, which hopefully will annualize and will be functionally offset by pricing.

As more savings come online and we see several more years of significant opportunity, we will get a greater percent reinvested in growth or brought to the bottom line. We are committed to make productivity a core strength and a sustainable competitive advantage.

We are equally committed to maintaining innovation leadership in our industry. Innovation and productivity are the two most powerful and sustainable ways we can drive value creation for consumers and shareholders.

The IRI pacesetter results for calendar year 2013 demonstrate our commitment to leading innovation. P&G launched 7 of the top 10 non-food, US consumer product innovations in 2013, with Tide Pods topping the list. In addition, six P&G innovations were included in their list of rising stars.

Innovation is creating value and building cumulative advantage in the fabric and home care sector. Our breakthrough in proprietary three-chamber unit-dose laundry technology, launched as Tide Pods, Ariel Pods, and Gain Flings, has reset the delightful consumer-usage experience, product performance, and convenience bar. Unit-dose detergents are currently available in over 20 markets around the world and have generated well over $1 billion in retail sales.

The recent launch of Gain Flings has gone extremely well, reaching nearly a 3% value share in the US laundry category in just two months. Unit dose now represents 11% of category sales, of which we have an 80% share.

The balance of the fabric-care innovation bundle that we launched in North America in February is also off to a good start. In-store execution of Tide Simply Clean & Fresh has gone very well. Total Tide share was up more than 0.5 points over the past three-month period, an indication that so far, Tide Simply Clean & Fresh is attracting incremental users to the brand.

Improved scents and new sizes of Downy Unstopables and Gain Fireworks in-wash scent beads have helped accelerate growth in this new product segment.

The broad range of baby care innovations launched in the US last fall continue to deliver excellent results. Nearly every diaper across all sizes and price tiers was improved to deliver better absorbency, comfort, or design.

Overall, P&G US baby care share is up 2 points, with share growing in 90% of retail customers. This has led to our largest market share in the past 20 years, enabling us to retake market leadership from Kimberly-Clark .

The extension of the Swaddlers forum into sizes 4 and 5 has been particularly successful. Swaddlers share is up 3 points to a 10% value share of the US diaper category.

At the CAGNY conference in February, we announced that we would be launching two new innovations in blades and razors.

The first was the launch of Gillette Body, which is doing well. The second and more significant innovation will be announced asked Tuesday, April 29. Men have told us they prefer the new innovation two to one, versus the best-selling razor in the world.

More information will be coming to you soon on how you can watch the unveiling of our newest male shaving system.

Product innovations like the one I've just described in laundry, baby care, and grooming are critical to driving strong, sustainable top line momentum, and delivering superior consumer value.

We're also working to improve execution and operating discipline. We are seeing this improvement play out in the supply chain and the execution of innovation launches in stores and in the effectiveness and efficiency of our marketing programs.

We are performing better, but there is still more to do. Operating discipline and execution have always been and must continue to be a core capability for Procter & Gamble .

We believe that the focus we're bringing to these four areas: operating TSR, productivity, innovation, operational excellence, along with targeted reinvestment, will enable us to continue to improve results, even as we work to address several remaining opportunities.

We remain on track to deliver our 2014 guidance, top line, bottom line, and cash. We're maintaining our organic sales growth range of 3% to 4%.

Foreign exchange is expected to be a sales-growth headwind of 2 to 3 points, which leads to all-in sales growth of approximately 1% for the fiscal year.

We are maintaining our forecast for bottom-line core earnings per share growth of 3% to 5%, offsetting stronger headwinds from foreign exchange and softer market growth rates with productivity savings. We currently expect foreign exchange to be roughly a 9-point headwind to core earnings per share growth. As a result, our guidance translates to constant currency core earnings per share growth in the range of 12% to 14%.

Recall that with the planned sale of the pet care business, we're restating pet care earnings from continuing operations to discontinued operations. This will reduce core earnings per share by approximately $0.03 and $0.04 per share, for FY13 and FY14, respectively. All-in, earnings per share growth remains the same.

We've included a table in the press release this morning, which provides an estimate of the quarterly restatements. Please pay attention to this when you adjust your models, as the impacts vary across quarters.

On an all-in GAAP basis, we now expect earnings per share to grow approximately 1% to 4%. This range reflects the non-core impacts from foreign exchange policy changes in Venezuela; approximately $0.15 of non-core restructuring costs in FY14; and the restatement of pet care earnings into discontinued operations in both the current and prior fiscal years.

The fourth-quarter earnings growth that's implied within our guidance is driven by a combination of operating growth, driven by productivity savings and devaluation-related pricing; a lower tax rate of about 21% on core earnings; and $0.03 to $0.04 of small brand divestiture gains.

We expect to deliver another year of about 90% free cash flow productivity. Our plans assume capital spending in the range of 4% to 5% of sales and share repurchase of about $6 billion.

In addition to the assumptions included in our guidance, we want to continue to be very transparent about some key items that are not included. The guidance we are reconfirming today is based on last week's FX spot rates. Further currency weakness is not anticipated within our guidance range.

We continue to monitor unrest in several markets, the Middle East, for example, and Ukraine. Venezuelan price controls, access to dollars for imported products, and devaluation present risks, as do import restrictions and price controls in Argentina. Finally, our guidance assumes no further degradation in market growth rates.

Our year-to-date results are in line with what we expected to deliver, putting us on track to deliver our goals for the fiscal year and make progress towards our long-term objectives. We continue to operate in a volatile environment, with uncertainty in foreign exchange, deceleration in market growth rates, and a rapidly-developing policy environment.

Against this backdrop, we've maintained a top line growth and improved constant currency operating earnings growth. We launched a strong round of innovation in the third quarter, and have significant new innovation coming in the fourth quarter, which will be complemented by further savings from productivity.

We're making targeted investments in our core business, most promising developing markets, and biggest innovation opportunities, and are aggressively driving productivity and cost savings. Above all, we remain focused on value creation for consumers and for our shareholders.

That concludes our prepared remarks. As a reminder, business segment information is provided in our press release and will be available in slides, which will be posted on our website, www.PG.com, following the call.

I'd be happy now to take any questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions)

John Faucher with JPMorgan .

JOHN FAUCHER , ANALYST, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: Thank you, good morning. Jon, as we look at the cost saves, particularly on the gross margin line, they're not really flowing through at this point. Obviously some of that is the big transactional impact, but you've also got this very big mix impact, which is really offsetting a lot of the work you are doing there. How should we think about that over the next couple of years? Is this going to continue to be a massive drag? Should it dissipate as you get more local manufacturing in place? Give us a little bit of an update there. Thank you.

JON MOELLER : There are two things, as you rightly pointed out, John, and as we talked about in the prepared remarks, that are offsetting the cost savings on the gross margin line. One is FX, which is significant. Hopefully, that annualizes. And as I mentioned, we are committed to price where legally allowed, to help mitigate that effect, as well. So, hopefully, that portion of the dynamic dampens going forward.

The other dynamic, as you rightly point out, is a mix dynamic, which has two components. One is -- two primary components. One is a category component. In the quarter we just completed, we had a great quarter of growth, both volume and sales in our fabric and home care segment, which is very profitable overall, but which does have lower gross margins than the balance of the business.

By contrast, we had relatively soft quarters in our healthcare business and our grooming business, which are higher gross margin. I look at that as one quarter's impact; I don't think that that sustains itself going forward. Some quarters it will be positive; some quarters it will be negative.

The second component of that is the geographic component made up, as you all know, by faster growth in developing markets, which have a lower gross margin. That impact will continue to exist.

I don't see a scenario in the near-term where developed markets grow faster than developing markets. We will make progress on the margin in developing markets as manufacturings localize as we build scale, but, it's going to continue to be a component of drag.

Do I think we can get to a place where this mix dynamic is only partially offsetting cost savings, such that we are growing gross margin? Absolutely. And I expect that absent another big foreign exchange event, that would characterize the future.

OPERATOR: Dara Mohsenian with Morgan Stanley .

DARA MOHSENIAN, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY : Hi, good morning. I was hoping you could discuss the sustainability of the gap between organic sales growth of 3% to 4% this year and the local FX core EPS growth of 12% to 14%, particularly with the negative geographic gross margin mix impact. Do you think that [gap] is sustainable as you look out to next year and longer term?

Then on a related note, I know you're not going to obviously give guidance on EPS next year, but given as a Company you've had some difficulty hitting the initial EPS targets over the last few years, I'm just wondering if, conceptually, there might be more of a need to bake in some conservatism, as you said, guidance going forward, particularly given the world seems more volatile and there have obviously been a lot of and external issues that have pressured results. And could going forward, and if that's part of your thought process as you look to next year's guidance?

JON MOELLER : Thank you, Dara. In terms of the spread between organic sales growth and constant currency earnings per share growth, if we're successful in delivering, basically, the $2 billion of savings per year that are implied in our $10 billion, five-year goal, that by itself is 11 points of earnings-per-share benefit. So, you add that to 3% to 4% organic sales growth, and you are in the ballpark of the spread that we are talking about for this fiscal year.

We have no intention of letting up on our cost savings and productivity effort and see several years of significant savings ahead of us. So I think that relationship is representative of the work that's going on. How much of it actually gets to the all-in bottom-line numbers will be a function of FX and also a function of some degree of reinvestment as good opportunities present themselves.

In terms of the philosophy on guidance, obviously, we haven't spent a lot of time focusing on next year yet. But, in general, what we are going to try to continue to do is be incredibly transparent, or as transparent as we can.

So, if you look at the year that we just went through, the one reduction in guidance we made midway through the year was due to currency in Venezuela. The way we handled that in the initial forecast of the year was by communicating that we didn't have anything assumed in the numbers. We didn't know when or what the devaluation was going to be, and we wanted to provide full transparency, so that you and others could, in essence, use your own understanding and knowledge to come to an informed point of view of what you thought the result was going to be.

So, at minimum, we will continue to be very transparent, tell you what's in, tell you what's not in. Generally, we like making our goals. We don't like not making them, and that will be reflected in our approach, as well.

OPERATOR: Wendy Nicholson with Citi Research.

WENDY NICHOLSON, ANALYST, CITI RESEARCH: Could you talk a little bit more about the comment that marketing efficiencies helped generate all that SG&A leverage? How much of that was a shift from advertising to promotion? How much of that is just part of AG's long-term, hey, we want to lower advertising by 100 basis points. Is there a risk that in some of these categories, given how competitive the market is, is it a risk you are under investing? Or, maybe just comment on all of that. Thank you.

JON MOELLER : Sure, Wendy. So, the SG&A offset to gross margin, which resulted in operating margin accretion, is driven by both overhead productivity and marketing effectiveness and efficiency improvements. Within marketing effectiveness and efficiency, a significant portion of that is a reduction in non-working dollars, tighter operations, if you will, and the design and creation of marketing programs.

Another big portion of it is the work I mentioned to get to more effectively target consumers through new capabilities that are available; to use new forms of media and consumer engagement; to generate more effective communication, as well as more efficient communication with our targeted consumers. So, it's really all of that.

As I tried to say in the prepared remarks, we are very focused on ensuring that the overall impact of our advertising program, the number of consumers that we are reaching, the quality of that interaction grows, does not decline. I think there's -- we are at a point where simply looking at dollars is just not representative of the strength of a marketing program and a rapidly changing marketing landscape.

We do, to your question of under investing, that is something that we look at very carefully. There have been some categories this year where we've reduced spending as the year has gone on, and there has been some categories where we've increased spending as the year has gone on. We are not going to under invest, but we are going to be effective and efficient in our investment.

OPERATOR: Bill Schmitz with Deutsche Bank .

BILL SCHMITZ, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK : Great, thank you. Good morning, everybody. A couple questions: first one is can you just break down the growth in emerging markets versus developed markets? And then, I know we very rarely talk about it, but can you talk a little bit about family care? Because I think they are your second and third largest businesses in the US, and clearly, that slowed quite a bit. I know you cited some competitive promotional activity, but maybe the outlook for that business and how you respond to it. Because it is, obviously, a decent chunk of the US business. Thank you.

JON MOELLER : First of all, the breakdown between developing and developed, developing in the quarter was plus 5; developed was plus 1, leaving you with the total of plus 3.

In terms of family care, you rightly pointed to the issue, Bill, which is heightened competitive activity as reflected in the amount of promotion that's going on in the category, primarily driven by Georgia-Pacific. I'm not at liberty to talk about future actions that we might take, but I will assure you that that's a category that we intend to be competitive in, and will be.

OPERATOR: Chris Ferrara with Wells Fargo .

CHRIS FERRARA , ANALYST, WELLS FARGO SECURITIES, LLC : Thank you. First, real quick, Jon, I think you mentioned that there were gains coming in the fourth quarter, I think you said 3 to 4 points. I just wanted to confirm that.

But the real question is, look, obviously you faced a ton of headwinds this year, and when you talk about productivity, you guys are using the term pull forward of savings. You brought fiscal 2015 savings into 2014. You are almost at your 16 to 22 target on non-manufacturing roles. Can you talk about what that leaves for 2015?

What do you need to sustain that pace of productivity? Do you need some of the supply chain stuff to start to come through, or do you still see incremental runway from the blocking and tackling savings that you are doing already? Thank you.

JON MOELLER : First, on the small brand divestiture gains in the fourth quarter, those should be between $0.03 and $0.04. Those are things we've talked about before, which is primarily the closure on the bleach sale, which we announced at CAGNY.

That isn't a certain event. We are going to have to wait to see how the regulators proceed. I think it is a certain event in terms of it eventually happening, but the timing of it is uncertain, but that's what's assumed in those numbers that I gave you.

In terms of productivity going forward, as I mentioned, I see -- we see, several more years of significant productivity opportunity. I wouldn't take the acceleration of savings into last year or this year as an indication of reduced savings potential next year or the following year. I can assure you that as our leadership team discusses this topic, that's not the mindset that we have. So, I would expect similar levels of savings for the foreseeable future.

OPERATOR: Olivia Tong with Bank of America .

OLIVIA TONG, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH : Great, thank you. Appreciate it. First, is it possible to parse out the impact of mix in -- from a country perspective versus the category perspective, considering that you think that the country will continue to be the case is developing grows faster than developed, versus the category, which may ebb and flow over time?

Then, can you also update us on the percentage of market share that you are holding or gaining in overall and also for the US? Thank you.

JON MOELLER : In terms of the components of mix, it's about half and half, Olivia, between the two drivers that you cited, and, of course, that varies quarter on quarter. But think of it as roughly 50-50.

Then, I am drawing a blank, percent -- the market share question, sorry. We are about flat on the quarter. We grew 3%, a little over 3%. The market is growing about 3%, and that dynamic is true on an aggregate basis both globally and in the US.

OPERATOR: Nik Modi with RBC Capital Market.

NIK MODI, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Thank you very much. A quick clarification, Jon, the organizational design changes that you talked about, is that a function and output of what Jorge Uribe was working on? And if there's any more work to do in that area.

The actual bigger picture question is, can you give us an update on the OTC business? And it seems like a scalable business where P&G can win with their brands. Any appetite for M&A? I know there's a lot of assets out there that potentially could get unlocked for purchase. Just wanted to get your philosophical viewpoint on that. Thank you.

JON MOELLER : Sure, Nick. First, as it relates to organization design, some of the changes that I talked about are very much a product of the work that Jorge Uribe and others have been leading. Most of that is just being put in place now or in the summer. I fully expect that as that happens, not only are operations going to improve as a reduced duplication and increased clarity of accountability, but I expect that we will identify additional opportunities from those new ways of operating.

That's very much what we saw when we set up the sector organizations a year ago. We had an estimate for savings that could be possible, but as we got into it, it became clear that there were additional savings possible. So, this is, again, something we are going to keep grinding away at, day after day, week after week, and create an organization that's not only more efficient, but is more effective, that has a broader range of job responsibilities, and is a funner, easier place to work.

OPERATOR: Ali Dibadj with Bernstein.

ALI DIBADJ, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & COMPANY, INC.: Hello. I did want to go back to a few things. One is on the negative 75 basis points, roughly, of the mix element on gross margin that should dissipate. Can you give us a sense of over what time frame you think that will happen, given all the investments you are making to grow the categories, but also, frankly on the geographic piece as well, of opening your plant, et cetera, like the one in Brazil?

The second thing is, you mentioned in the release, let me just find -- it says, in the beauty sections that sales declines in salon and skin care are comma primarily in Asia. Does that mean you are getting better skin care stability in the US? And then the last question is, I want to understand better the grooming negative 4% mix that we saw in the quarter. Thank you.

JON MOELLER : Okay. Let me first -- and I apologize, Nick -- I breezed by the second part of your question. Let me go back to that first and then come back, Ali, to you. And if I continue my trend this morning of forgetting the second parts of questions, you can remind me what they were.

Nick, in terms of OTC, it is a space that we like; it's certainly, demographically advantaged. It's an area that we feel we have strength in, within select product treatment areas. As we've said for several years, it is a place that we would consider adding to our business, both organically.

Clearly, the type of joint venture has enabled us to accelerate our progress internationally quite significantly. We added the new chapter asset recently. So, it is a space that we will continue to look for opportunities in. But, we are also going to be choice-full and value driven as we pursue and evaluate those opportunities.

Ali, on the glide path for mix, the developing-developed split is so much informed by foreign exchange. There is a constant FX cost differential. I would say that's -- I think we've talked before, probably a 3- to 5-year glide path; it's not overnight, but we will get there, just as we have in China, just as we have in Russia, just as we have in Saudi, and places where we've been operating for longer periods of time. But how much of that actually gets to the bottom line is going to be a function of FX, which is why I hesitate to say definitively, it's going to be X period of time.

The second piece on skin care, we had a reasonably good quarter on both US skin care, which was up mid-single digits, and on US Pantene, which was also up mid-single digits. We continue to have opportunity in Asia, and I wouldn't say that we've necessarily fully rounded the corner on either US skin care or US Pantene, but certainly are making significant progress.

Then, on Gillette mix, a large part of that is geographic, as you are probably well aware. We have some category growth challenges in the US, so the size of that market is down, and that's the most profitable piece of the business. That's something that as category leaders, we are responsible for managing and we are actively doing that.

We certainly like the position that we start from in that task. We have 70% market share of the most profitable segment, huge levels of consumer loyalty, very high, especially relative to other participants in the category, net promoter scores.

We offer, really a significant value to consumers. A man can use Gillette Fusion ProGlide for a cost of about $1 a week, and for that, he gets uncompromised quality from a brand that's spent over a century developing the best shaving products for men.

We have significant innovation coming to market in the shave care space as well, which help both market growth and mix going forward. We have launched the body product that we talked about at CAGNY, and on the 29th of April, we will be revealing the next major innovation for Gillette. And while I can't give details of that today, all of that will be revealed on the 29th.

What I can tell you, what men are telling us, which is that they prefer this product two to one, versus the world's best-selling razor currently. So we are active in terms of managing the category challenge in the US, and are excited about some of the innovation that we are bringing to bear to do that.

OPERATOR: Michael Steib with Credit Suisse .

MICHAEL STEIB, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE : Good morning, Jon. You mentioned earlier that emerging market growth I think in the quarter was 5%, if I understood that correctly. From memory, I think it was 8% in the last quarter. Could you just tell us where you are seeing most of that -- the majority of that slowdown, please? On that note, could also provide us an update on the growth that you are seeing in China, please?

JON MOELLER : Well, China continues to be a very attractive market; we've grown that business 50% over the last three years. Quarter to quarter, there can be some chop, but it continues to be a very attractive market for us. Market growth, in general, in developing markets, has slowed by 1 to 2 points over the last six months, and that's what explains most of the slowdown that I mentioned in our developing market business. Fiscal year to date, we are high singles, call it 7%, and so the 5% is 2 points lower than that.

If you look at share as a measure of whether we are holding or losing ground, we built share in Brazil by more than 0.5 points. We've built share now there for 22 consecutive quarters. We built share in India, where we've grown double digits now for 47 consecutive quarters. We built a modest amount of share in Russia. China, frankly, is very hard to read shares at the moment.

There is a significant channel ship that's occurring, for instance, to e-commerce, where we are doing very well from a share point, but which Nielsen doesn't measure. We have wholesalers that are shifting from Nielsen-measured retailers, as their source of volume, to non-Nielsen measured distributors. So, it's a bit complex.

Again, it's a business we feel good about. We've got good innovation coming to market there. We just launched a premium diaper, which in its early days has done extremely well, taking market leadership in three out of the four major e-commerce platforms for diapers in China and its early entry period.

So, as I said in our prepared remarks, I expect developing markets will continue to be a disproportionate source of growth across the board for many years to come.

OPERATOR: Jason English with Goldman Sachs .

JASON ENGLISH, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS : Good morning, thank you for the question. Two questions: first, a small housekeeping item. Can you give us a sense what sort of gains you expect in the pet care business once it's sold, as we think about modeling into next year?

Back to my other question, I want to go back to the organizational changes that you talked about in prepared remarks and a little bit in Q&A. I get the cost-efficiency benefit of reducing role redundancy in emerging countries into fewer SMO clusters, but I was hoping you could help me on your agility comment. How does further centralization and decision-making in an already heavily centralized organization make you more agile? As you move forward with this, how do you ensure that local execution doesn't falter? Thank you.

JON MOELLER : Good question. First, relative to the gains, I think if you go back to the press release we issued when we announced the sale, we said we expected very little impact, positive or negative, from a one-time gain standpoint from the sale of the pet business. And John can give you more specifics there later today, but generally, it shouldn't be a major impact.

In terms of the organization question, I think there's a couple things that we can do a better job explaining. One is there seems to be a notion that when we talk about global business units, that by definition, moving work in to global business units centralizes that work and moves it to a global level. And I understand completely why one would have that conclusion; because when we describe it, that's what it sounds like.

But, that's not what happens. We have GBU resources, at a global level, at a regional level, at a local level. We have brand managers at a global level, at a regional level, at a local level for each of our major product lineups.

So, what we are trying to do is just clarify that the work of brand building belongs with those people, locally, regionally and globally. It shouldn't be done by other organizations in addition to those resources. We need those resources focusing on one of the most strategic things we do, which is sell and build joint value creation with our customers.

You can imagine, if you have two different organizations working on the same thing, from an internal standpoint, how that can create a lot of complexity. If you are in an executional role in the organizations, it's hard to know what to execute when you are getting multiple sources of direction. So, clarifying this, de-duplicating it, should have both, I think, cost opportunity associated with it, as well as enabling us to be more agile, be clearer, be more decisive, be quicker, in terms of the actions that we take.

To date, in the last roughly two years, we've reduced the number of overhead roles by 8000 people. We've done that without significant businesses disruption, without significant organization disruption. That doesn't mean it's all been easy, but it gives us confidence that we can continue to improve here, without being overly concerned about business disruption.

OPERATOR: Steve Powers with UBS .

STEVE POWERS, ANALYST, UBS : Hi, John. Good morning. Regarding your North American and potential Western European supply-chain restructuring programs, do have any estimates for the costs, whether cash or non-cash associated with those programs and the $200 million to $300 million in savings you mentioned? How should we expect them to flow over the three- to four-year life of the program? Will they be non-core charges, elevated CapEx, will they show up in other areas, et cetera? That's my main question.

Then if I could tag on one more, which is related to taxes. I think your -- the quarter and your guidance for next quarter imply a tax rate for the year in the 21% to 22% range, if my math is right. I wanted to get your update on what -- whether you think that rate is sustainable going forward, and what the risks are in either direction, to the more normalized tax rate as we look ahead? Thank you.

JON MOELLER : On supply chain, there will be costs. There will be capital. Those will be significant, though, obviously, we wouldn't do this if we weren't earning a significant return on those. We'll try to detail those for you at some level when we provide guidance for next year. As I mentioned earlier, we are still working through -- we're in the exploratory process of this in Europe, and we'd like to come to you with a total package, which we will do as we provide guidance for the year.

But you can -- within that, though, capital spending, I don't see going -- I see it staying in the 4% to 5% range as we execute this program. We will work -- continue working very hard on working capital reduction as an offset to this. We've been able to do that successfully in the last three or four years with our whole build-out program in developing markets, really maintaining our free cash flow productivity targets, despite somewhat higher capital spending. And that is certainly the objective going forward.

So I wouldn't consider it net of major change to the cash profile of the Company. There will be some cost to execute it. Some of those will be non-core, some of those will be core, and we will provide more context with guidance.

Tax rates on the year, based on everything we know today, should be 21%. We still have a quarter to go, so that can change, but that's what we are seeing currently.

This is going to continue to be a bit lumpy as we go forward. You are going to see quarters where it's going to be lower than that; you're going to see quarters where it's going to be higher than that, and that's a function of geographic mix, as you can appreciate. It's also a function of the timing of audits and reserve establishments and reserve reversals, et cetera. We try to provide disclosure on the big chunks of that within our financial disclosures in our statements.

In terms of what can -- what are the major drivers that could affect tax rate going forward, clearly, again, geographic mix can affect it. That should be, generally, a net positive as we go forward, assuming that developing markets continue to grow faster than developed markets and there are lower tax rates in developing markets.

The other change, of course, that is unknowable, and can affect us either positively or negatively, is our policy developments, both in the US and overseas. What I'll say though, is in general, there seems to be a lot of competitiveness on the part of governments to maintain business-friendly status in a slowly growing economy. I think it would be somewhat unlikely that there would be a major adverse event that would affect our tax rate significantly. Of course, that's completely unknowable.

OPERATOR: Connie Maneaty with BMO Capital Markets.

CONNIE MANEATY, ANALYST, BMO CAPITAL MARKETS: Good morning, I just had a question for clarification on the supply-chain savings. I think you were talking about $200 million a year. Could you say if that is only for North America and when you would expect it to start?

JON MOELLER : The $200 million to $300 million range I gave you, which is a very rough range at this point, is inclusive of our early thinking on Europe. So it's North America and Europe. We will start seeing some of those savings next year, particularly the distribution-related savings as we consolidate distribution and customization centers into fewer distribution centers located closer to customers.

That's a relatively smaller portion of the overall savings, which will accrue -- the major savings should start accruing in the three and four years from now. So it's something that we are changing our footprint so dramatically that we want to do it in a very disciplined, organized way to avoid business disruption. The savings will be significant, but they will be -- they are not immediate.

OPERATOR: Javier Escalante with Consumer Edge Research.

JAVIER ESCALANTE , ANALYST, CONSUMER EDGE RESEARCH: Thank you. Good morning, everyone. I would like to come back to the emerging market negative mix issue. Basically, if you can help us, Jon, at least have an average emerging market gross margin and operating margin figure.

And also, more philosophically, you have over $30 billion in sales in emerging markets, which is -- these are much bigger than most of your competitors combined, and essentially, you have lower profitability. The question is, is it because you are leading with the wrong categories, leading with categories that have low margins, as opposed to leading with categories like beauty or healthcare? And essentially, you are doubling down in the negative mix by leading with the legacy businesses, which is detergent and some paper, as opposed to the high-volume businesses: beauty, healthcare, and grooming? Thank you.

JON MOELLER : Thank you, Javier. We will give you some better gross and operating margin breakdown relative to Company average for developing markets as part of our guidance for next year. The reason I'm not giving that to you right now, is because it's all changing, as we put in pricing for FX, et cetera. I'd like to get to a more stable situation so I can give you something that's actually useful, but I understand the need and we can provide something that hopefully will help there.

In terms of our developing market business profitability, it's really a tale of two cities. In markets where we have been for extended periods of time, where we've developed the scale to justify localization of the supply chain, where we've built local organizations, and where we've developed significant relationships with our retail partners, we have very good margins. In many cases, at the Company average, in some cases, above the Company average.

So I've mentioned markets before like Russia, like China, like Saudi. There are a number of examples. Take China as an example, that's not only our second largest market in terms of sales, it's our second largest market in terms of profit. Obviously, it's a very profitable situations there.

I think that is more what needs to occur than altering the mix of product categories in the markets where we're earlier on in our journey, like Brazil and like India. We need to get the cost structure, we need to get consumer usage of our premium products, which is happening -- it happened in China, it clearly happened in Russia. It's happening right now in Brazil, a little bit less so in India. Those are the kinds of things that will enable us to get margins to a place -- and I'm very confident we will get to, which is somewhere close to -- somewhere close, a little bit below the Company average.

Your point on other categories is an important one. I mentioned earlier that we are really through the joint venture (inaudible) for the first time, building out our healthcare business, which is very high margin, across the globe, including developing markets. We've talked before about the Vicks expansion in Russia and Eastern Europe. We have some things going on in Latin America. We will continue to -- where there are smart value-creating opportunities, expand, not just the paper and detergent businesses, but also the beauty and healthcare businesses.

OPERATOR: Joe Altobello with Oppenheimer.

JOE ALTOBELLO , ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER & CO.: Thank you, good morning, Jon. First question is in terms of the innovation strategy and how you are seeing it right now. Given that we've seen you go down market recently with Tide, and also up market, it sounds like in blade razors, will the emphasis still be on moving up market going forward and staying true to what has been a very successful trade-up strategy for you guys? Or given the environment, do you think the innovation going forward will be a little bit more balanced between mid-tier and premium price points?

Secondly, in terms of the outlook for next year, I know it's very early, so I'm not going to ask for guidance here. But given that you are going to be anniversarying the FX headwinds and given that the manufacturing startup costs are behind you, what do you see as the biggest headwinds for you guys in fiscal 2015? Thanks.

JON MOELLER : In terms of innovation, we will continue to pursue a balanced innovation strategy. If you just think about the laundry bundle in North America now, it has lower price components designed for consumers for whom price is a bigger part of their personal value equation. It also has some premium lineups.

We generated more new sales on Gain Flings than we did on Tide Simply Clean & Fresh in the last quarter. Our innovation decisions are going to be guided by consumers, their needs and wants. It's less about price point than it is about value for a particular consumer. Value, as you know, is a combination of pricing and product efficacy, consumer experience, our communication of that experience, et cetera. We are going to be continue to be focused on consumers with whom we can create value and to whom we can provide value.

Relative to headwinds going forward, I think one of the biggest headwinds is market growth, both in developing and developed markets. The good news is we have a say in that and we can create growth with innovation by trading in consumers in many markets, trading consumers up in other markets. But that is challenging and in a 3% growth world, and that's just a reality that we are going to have to adapt to. It is part and parcel of the combined productivity and innovation strategy. Those are the two things that are required to win in a slower growth environment and the two things we are committed to deliver.

OPERATOR: Bill Chappell with SunTrust.

BILL CHAPPELL, ANALYST, SUNTRUST ROBINSON HUMPHREY: Thank you for the question. Want to go back to the divestiture of the pet business, and I think if we go back a few years with the divestiture of the coffee business, the plan was to take the process and reinvest in actually restructuring and try to offset some of the dilution.

In this divestiture, there is just for general and corporate purposes. Just trying to understand at what point $2.9 billion, $5 billion, is there a philosophy change in terms of reinvesting some of this money back into the business or reinvesting it into share repurchases or a thought? This doesn't seem to be one of the smaller divestitures you've done over the past few years.

JON MOELLER : A couple of things, here. First of all, the $2.9 billion becomes $2 billion once we pay Uncle Sam. That's the amount of cash that we are looking at, at this point. Really that's cash that we will earn next fiscal year when the deal is likely to close. Buyers have a nasty habit of not paying you until they of have certainty on ownership of the asset. We will build that cash into our planning for next fiscal year. We will be very clear with you how we are intending to use that.

Relative to the Folgers situation, there are two things that are different with regard to restructuring. The first is that Folgers was much more dilutive than pet is going to be, and so the need was greater from that standpoint. Second, at the time we announced Folgers, we didn't have a non-core restructuring program, and so, we chose to increase restructuring to accommodate that objective.

We have a fairly robust restructuring program right now. We are not capped or limited. If there's more opportunity to generate return and create value, by all means, we will. Again, this is a next-year cash flow, and we will get back to you with the use of that cash, as we describe plans for next fiscal year.

OPERATOR: Alice Longley with Buckingham Research.

ALICE LONGLEY, ANALYST, BUCKINGHAM RESEARCH GROUP: I have just a couple leftover housekeeping questions: your 1% organic growth in the developed regions, can you break that out in terms of volume, price, and mix?

My other question is, when you give us your EPS growth adjusted for currency, could you explain more what you take out to get to that number? Do you take out the pricing that you are getting in emerging regions as an offset to currency? Do you take off all of the cost benefits, the local cost benefits you're getting as a result of currency, as well? Thank you.

JON MOELLER : Developed market organic sales breakdown, we had 2% volume growth in developed markets, a minus 1 point price-mix dynamic, getting you to 1% organic sales growth. So, that's the breakdown there. The currency numbers do not include pricing. They do include the total transaction impact on the cost structure, so if there are local cost benefits, that's in the currency number. We just take our currency exposures on the rate of change, and that's the number we are providing.

OPERATOR: Mark Astrachan with Stifel.

MARK ASTRACHAN, ANALYST, STIFEL NICOLAUS: Thank you and good morning. I wanted to clarify a couple of things: on the North America beauty business, was there any benefit from restocking from destocking a year ago, six months ago? Then, from the slowdown in developing markets, any commentary there about whether the categories or a category specific has become more promotional as a result of the slowdown?

JON MOELLER : I think the beauty organic sales numbers are representative of the state of the business. I don't think they include any one-time, significant one-time impacts of any sort. I think you should look at them as decent numbers.

Relative to promotion levels, we are seeing increased promotion in North America in a few categories. We talked earlier about the family-care category, where we have seen some increased promotion. We've seen increased promotion, not surprisingly, in response to our laundry innovation launches in North America, and we've seen increased promotion relative to -- in response to our innovation in the hair care space.

But, we look at those, generally, as temporary in nature and it's not, as I've said many times before, promotion is not high on our list of strategic choices to grow business. So it's certainly not a dynamic that we are going to be encouraging. If you look at price mix inclusive of promotion, from the last quarter, it was a positive impact. On a global basis, it's been a neutral-to-positive impact for 13 consecutive quarters. It's been a positive impact for the last nine years. We are going to try to compete on the basis of innovation, make sure the base price of our product is as sharp as it can be as a result of our productivity efforts. We will need to be competitive on promotion levels, but it's not a dynamic that we're going to drive.

OPERATOR: Jon Andersen with William Blair.

JON ANDERSEN , ANALYST, WILLIAM BLAIR & COMPANY: Good morning, Jon. You mentioned a significant shift to e-commerce in, I think, referring to China that you're seeing. But I guess -- I suspect you are seeing a similar shift in, perhaps, developed markets, as well. Should we think about this as a net positive for P&G and manufactures in terms of reach, your ability to target consumers, even profitability? If you could discuss that opportunity and any plans you have to capitalize on that channel shift over time?

JON MOELLER : We want to be available for consumers wherever they want to shop, and that includes the e-commerce space. Jon, you mentioned some very attractive aspects of that space. One is the ability to target -- to more narrowly target consumers, more effectively target consumers, and that is certainly relevant. There's also an opportunity to provide, sometimes, some more information as E, in general, becomes what we're calling the zero moment of truth, and sometimes it's the zero and first moment of truth.

In general, e-commerce shoppers are -- represent a more attractive demographic. We are seeing larger basket sizes in some of the e-commerce channels than in bricks and mortar, not always, but in some cases. We are working very hard to ensure that our share of both sales and profits is at least as good as is the case in more traditional retail channels, and that currently is the case.

This is a channel that's been evolving fast and will continue to change significantly in the next three to five years. It's something that we need to and intend to be a significant part of.

OPERATOR: Caroline Levy with CLSA.

CAROLINE LEVY, ANALYST, CLSA LIMITED: Good morning, Jon. It's on margins. I'm just looking at the EBIT margin expansion in beauty and grooming, and I'm wondering if, going forward, you believe you'll be able to sustain that. Or if you actually see some pickup in margins and the other divisions.

JON MOELLER : Well, I think sustaining 17% earnings growth, which is what you see in the beauty segment in the last quarter, is not an objective we would have. We are happy with that growth. We want, over time, to achieve more balance between that top-line and bottom-line, while still delivering a very strong bottom line.

The bigger margin improvement opportunity, I think, comes as we do three things: one, get the higher-margin categories growing at their rate of category growth, and that includes beauty; two, improve our margins in developing markets, as we've talked about with several of you this morning; and third is continue focusing on growth behind innovation in developed markets, where we have higher margins. That's -- all three are very much a part of our thought process and activity system, presently.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, that concludes today's conference. Thank you for your participation. You may now disconnect. Have a great day.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
prgml : The Procter & Gamble Company
   IN
i258 : Cosmetics/Toiletries | icnp : Consumer Goods | ipcare : Personal Care Products/Appliances
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020140425ea4n001xh
  


 HD
 Q2  2014 The  Procter  & Gamble Company Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
10,010 words
   PD
24 January 2014
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©014 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Welcome to Procter & Gamble 's quarter end conference call. Today's discussion will include a number of forward-looking statements. If you will refer to P&G 's most recent 10-K, 10-Q, and 8-K reports, you will see a discussion of factors that could cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from these projections.

   TD
As required by Regulation G, P&G needs to make you aware that during the call, the Company will make a number of references to non-GAAP and other financial measures. Management believes these measures provide investors valuable information on the underlying growth trends of the business.

Organic refers to reported results excluding the impact of acquisitions and divestitures and foreign exchange where applicable. Free cash flow represents operating cash flow less capital expenditures. Free cash flow productivity is the ratio of adjusted free cash flow to net earnings.

Any measure described as core refers to the equivalent GAAP measure adjusted for certain items. P&G has posted on its website, www.pg.com, a full reconciliation of non-GAAP and other financial measures.

Now, I will turn the call over to P&G 's Chief Financial Officer, Jon Moeller .

JON MOELLER , CFO, THE PROCTER & GAMBLE COMPANY : Good morning. Our October-December results came in pretty much as we'd expected, keeping us on track to deliver our fiscal year objectives. All-in sales were up modestly versus the prior year, including a 3 point headwind from foreign exchange.

Organic sales grew 3%. Organic sales were in-line or ahead of year-ago in each reporting segment. Coupled with 4% growth in the first quarter, this leaves us on track to deliver 3% to 4% organic sales growth for the fiscal year. Organic sales growth was driven by organic volume growth of 3%. Organic volume was ahead of year ago in each of our reporting segments.

Pricing added 1 point to sales growth, and mix reduced sales growth by 1 point. Consistent with the reported market growth and market share data you've seen, October and November were relatively soft months for our categories and for P&G .

December, on the other hand, was a relatively strong month for us. December organic volume growth was over 5%, with each sector growing at or above 4%. Organic sales were up mid-single-digits.

December quarter all-in GAAP earnings per share were $1.18, core earnings per share were $1.21, which leave us on track with our plans to deliver 5% to 7% core earnings per share growth for the fiscal year. Earnings for all segments were ahead of year ago, except for Baby, Feminine, and Family Care, due to foreign exchange. Foreign exchange was an $0.11 per share headwind for the Company in the quarter.

The year ago period also included a $0.07 per share gain from the sale of our bleach business in Italy. Combined, these two items constitute a 15% core earnings per share growth headwind for the quarter.

Core operating margin was about equal to last year, down 10 basis points. Organic sales growth leverage and 230 basis points of cost of goods overhead and marketing savings were offset by foreign exchange and negative mix. Core gross margin was down 90 basis points.

Cost savings of 130 basis points and volume leverage were offset by geographic and category mix of 130 basis points, foreign exchange of 90 basis points, higher commodity costs and higher manufacturing start-up costs. Core SG&A improved 80 basis points, driven by 100 basis points of marketing and overhead productivity savings. These benefits were partially offset by foreign exchange impacts and targeted innovation and go-to-market investments.

The effective tax rate on core earnings was 21.5%. This included a positive 1 point impact from the release of a tax reserve following a favorable audit outcome in Asia. This reserve reversal accounted for roughly $0.02 of earnings per share benefit on the quarter.

The net impact from all of the items below operating income -- tax, interest expense, interest income, nonoperating income, and share count -- was a slight headwind to core earnings per share growth for the quarter. We generated $2.4 billion in free cash flow and remain on track to deliver free cash flow productivity of about 90% for the fiscal year. As planned, we returned $1.7 billion of cash to shareholders in dividends and repurchased $1.5 billion in stock, bringing year-to-date share repurchase to $4 billion.

Net, the second quarter came in pretty much as we were expecting on both the top and bottom lines, leaving us on track to deliver our sales and earnings forecasts for the fiscal year. As we move forward, value creation for consumers and shareowners remains our top priority.

Operating TSR is our primary business performance measure. Operating TSR is an integrated measure of value creation at the business unit level, requiring sales growth, progress on gross and operating margin, and strong cash flow productivity.

Operating TSR drives focus on core brands and businesses, our leading, most profitable categories and leading most profitable markets. We'll begin to make more operating TSR progress as we move into calendar 2014.

Our strongest brands and business unit and total Company positions are in the United States. We need to continue to ensure our home market stays strong and is growing. The actions we've taken over the past two years to restore consumer value, expand our vertical product portfolios, and horizontal regimens and lead innovation have enabled us to restore value-creating share growth in many parts of the business.

We still have more work to do in a few categories and the competitive environment is intense, which leads to choppy results on a quarter-to-quarter basis, but we're making good progress. We have a stronger brand and product innovation program ahead of us in the US this quarter.

We continue to grow and expand our business in developing markets, with a focus on the categories and countries with the largest sizes of prize and the highest likelihood of winning. This is where the world's babies will be born and where more new households will be formed. Developing markets will continue to be a significant growth driver for our Company this year and for years to come. In October-December, organic sales grew 8% in developing markets.

We'll continue to focus the Company's portfolio, allocating resources to businesses where we can create value. We'll continue to exit businesses where we determine that potential buyers with different capability sets can create more value than ourselves.

Consistent with our focus on operating TSR, we're continuing to push forward with our productivity and cost savings efforts. We've made solid progress over the last fiscal year and a half. We have strong productivity plans for fiscal 2014 and we're working to accelerate some fiscal 2015 savings into 2014.

Versus a target run rate of $1.2 billion, we're now forecasting more than $1.6 billion of cost of goods productivity savings this fiscal year, across materials, logistics, and manufacturing expense. This is up $200 million since our last update.

Versus a going-in target of 5%, we expect to improve manufacturing productivity by at least 6% this year. We're up more than 8% fiscal year-to-date. We've now exceeded our 2014 fiscal year non-manufacturing enrollment reduction goals only six months into the year and have begun work to accelerate role reductions planned for fiscal 2015 into 2014.

Our stretch objective is to get substantially to our end of 2015 objectives by the end of 2014. This would put us close to or within the 16% to 22% reduction goal we've established, one to two years ahead of target. We won't stop there. We continue to identify opportunities to simplify and streamline our organization design.

We continue to drive marketing productivity and effectiveness through an optimized media mix with more digital, mobile, and social presence, improved message clarity and greater non-advertising marketing efficiencies. We expect absolute marketing spending to come in slightly above prior year levels, but marketing as a percentage of sales to decline. Importantly, the overall effectiveness and impact of our marketing spending will be well ahead of the prior year.

We see several more years of effectiveness improvement ahead, driven by new, more efficient digital mobile and social media, and big opportunities to continue to improve the efficiency, precision, and effectiveness of our communication. We remain committed to make productivity a core strength and a sustainable competitive advantage.

We're equally committed to being the product and commercial innovation leader in our industry. We're currently bringing significant innovation to market in Fabric Care, including upgrades on all of our Tide Plus value-added liquid detergents, new extra-large tub sizes on Tide Pods; Gain Flings, a triple chamber, single load laundry pack providing Gain consumers with enhanced scent, better freshness and more cleaning power, all with the convenience of the single load form; scent upgrades on Downy Unstopables and Gain Fireworks In Wash scent beads; Tide Oxi, a multipurpose stain remover that can be used in the laundry or around the house; and Tide Simply Clean & Fresh laundry detergent, specifically designed with the right level of cleaning and freshness for mid-price-tier consumers.

We've received strong retailer support for these innovations, overdelivering our distribution, shelving, and initial merchandising objectives for the launch. The Ariel unit dose innovation in Western Europe is tracking well above expectations. We're continuing the expansion, launching in Italy, Iberia, and the Balkans earlier this month.

Consumption trends on Tide Pods have remained strong, growing in the low teens fiscal year-to-date versus the prior year. We're also launching a very strong Oral Care innovation bundle next month, including Crest 3D White Brilliance, delivering our most advanced whitening and freshness benefits in one toothpaste; Crest 3D White Luxe, which removes up to 90% of tooth stains in five days and with our new Whitelock technology, locks out future stains and microfine lines in the teeth; Crest 3D White Luxe Whitestrips with new Flexfit film, an innovation created with technology from our Baby Care business, that stretches and molds for a custom fit for more whitening and coverage; our new Crest Sensi-Relief innovation, which delivers improved sensitivity relief combined with Scope freshness; and Crest Be, a new line for experiential consumers, including flavors like Be Dynamic Lime Spearmint Zest, Be Inspired Vanilla Mint Spark, and Be Adventurous Mint Chocolate Trek.

In North America, our recent Baby Care absorbency comfort and design innovations are driving diaper market share growth. US diaper share is up 1.5 points versus prior year with particular strength on the Pampers Swaddlers and Luvs product lines, retaking market share leadership for the first time in many years.

We continue to strengthen our share position in the US battery business behind the Quantum innovation and recent distribution increases. P&G battery value share is up 2.5 points for the past three months to over 40%.

In December, we started shipping Pantene in North America with improved product performance and packaging. The shampoo and conditioner formulas contain a new, Pro-V antioxidant complex, delivering clinically proven healthier hair with every wash. We're also leveraging Pantene's Shine Strong advertising that has received global acclaim for tackling gender labels and encouraging women to show their strength and shine. The advertisement has generated nearly 1 billion consumer impressions globally.

We're expanding Old Spice into the rapidly growing North American male hair care segment behind a full array of shampoos, conditioners, and styling products with Old Spice's most popular scent collections. This started shipping last week. Old Spice body spray is growing strongly behind the new Smellcome to Manhood commercial campaign. To date, the campaign has generated over 700 million consumer impressions; the vast majority of which have been free, through social media and mass media coverage.

Duracell's Trust Your Power advertisement has also gained high awareness online. It features Derrick Coleman, the only legally deaf player in NFL and the barriers he's overcome by trusting his inner power. The US advertisement has driven over 1.7 billion consumer impressions in just two weeks, since it was launched on January 10.

We recently launched our new commercial campaign for the Winter Olympics. The commercial program includes a balanced combination of single brand and multi-brand executions. Our research shows stronger purchase intent is generated when individual brand executions are closely coupled with a multi-brand execution.

The Olympics ad campaign has generated nearly 1.6 billion consumer impressions so far and, like Old Spice and Duracell, most of these are earned or free impressions generated through traditional and social media. These product and commercial innovations should contribute to strong top line momentum in the back half which, combined with productivity savings, should enable us to deliver our fiscal year objectives.

Next, we're improving execution and operating discipline. We simply have to execute better, more consistently, and more reliably. We need everyone playing their position and playing it well.

Consistent with the customer service improvements we discussed last quarter, we were recently named the top rated manufacturer in China, our second largest market, as rated by our retail partners in both the Advantage Group and Kantar Retail surveys. These surveys reflect the quality of our customer business development organization, promotion plans, and customer service reliability.

Last, we're making strategic investments in innovation and go-to-market capabilities. Targeted R&D investments are enabling us to strengthen our near- and mid-term innovation pipeline. Targeted go-to-market investments will enable us to strengthen sales coverage in our fastest growing markets and fastest growing channels.

We believe that the focus that we're bringing to these four areas -- operating TSR, productivity, innovation, operational excellence -- along with targeted reinvestment, will enable us to continue to improve results, even as we work to address several remaining opportunities. We remain on track to deliver our 2014 guidance, top line, bottom line, and cash. We're maintaining our organic sales growth range of 3% to 4%; achieving organic sales growth in the upper half of our target range should result in modest overall market share growth.

Foreign exchange is expected to be a sales growth headwind of 2 points, which leads to all-in sales growth in the range of 1% to 2% for the fiscal year. We're maintaining our forecast for bottom line core earnings per share growth of 5% to 7%, despite stronger headwinds from foreign exchange and softer market growth rates. We aim to make up the difference through productivity advances, which will primarily benefit the fourth quarter.

The fiscal year headwind from foreign exchange has continued to increase. We now expect foreign exchange to be a 7 point headwind to core earnings per share growth. As a result, our guidance now translates to constant currency core earnings per share growth in the range of 12% to 14%.

We now expect the tax rate on core earnings to be 1 point or so below prior-year levels. On an all-in GAAP basis, we expect earnings per share to grow approximately 7% to 9%. This range reflects somewhat lower non-core restructuring costs in fiscal 2014 versus the prior year.

The second half earnings growth increase that's implied within our guidance is driven by foreign exchange and cost structure improvement. Foreign exchange was a significant headwind in the first half, but will moderate in the second half at recent spot rates. We will also annualize the operating impacts from last year's Venezuelan bolivar devaluation.

Manufacturing start-up costs will annualize in the second half of fiscal 2014. Productivity savings and devaluation-related price increases will build sequentially.

As you prepare your estimates for Q3 and Q4, please keep in mind a couple items. We won't annualize the Venezuela impact until mid-February in Q3. We'll have a full quarter of Laundry and Oral Care innovation impacts in Q4.

Productivity savings that are being advanced to offset stronger FX impacts and lower market growth will primarily benefit the fourth quarter; also, pricing we'll be taking to offset recent devaluations in some markets will take effect only in Q4. We expect to deliver another year of about 90% free cash flow productivity. Our plans assume capital spending in a range of 4% to 5% of sales and share repurchase in the range of $5 billion to $7 billion.

In addition to the assumptions included in our guidance, we want to continue to be very transparent about some key items that are not included. The guidance we're reconfirming today is based on last week's FX spot rates; further currency weakness is not anticipated within our guidance range.

We continue to monitor unrest in Egypt, which is a large business for us and a base of export for the balance of Africa, as well as unrest and economic instability in the Ukraine, though the situation has recently improved. Venezuelan price controls, access to dollars for imported products, and devaluation present risk, as do import restrictions, price controls, and devaluation in Argentina. Finally, our guidance assumes no further degradation in market growth rates.

Our first half results were in line with what we expected, putting us on track to deliver our goals for the fiscal year and make progress towards our long-term growth objectives. We continue to operate in a volatile environment with uncertainty in foreign exchange, some deceleration in the market growth rates, and a rapidly developing policy environment. Against this backdrop, we've maintained top line growth and improved constant currency operating earnings growth.

We have an even stronger innovation program in the back half of the year and savings from productivity improvements that will build. We're making targeted investments in our core businesses, most promising developing markets and biggest innovation opportunities, and are aggressively driving productivity and cost savings. Above all, we remain focused on value creation for consumers and for our shareowners.

That concludes our prepared remarks. As a reminder, business segment information is provided in our press release and will be available in slides, which will be posted on our website, www.pg.com, following the call.

Our next a significant investor event, headed by A.G. Lafley, is the CAGNY conference on February 20. We hope to see many of you there. I'd be happy now to take your questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions) Chris Ferrara , Wells Fargo .

CHRIS FERRARA , ANALYST, WELLS FARGO SECURITIES : Jon, I was hoping you could talk a little bit about the cadence of the quarter. I think you mentioned that December was up 5%. Can you put that in the context of sell-in versus sell-through? What was going on October, November? I think your shipments probably exceeded consumption by a reasonable margin in December.

Why is that? How do you feel about inventory levels there? Then just if you can go through the same sort of cadence through the quarter for the emerging markets, too, given all of the concern there, that'd be great. Thank you very much.

JON MOELLER : Sure, Chris. You're certainly right in that our innovation, timing of innovation, did affect the timing of shipments in the quarter. We're very comfortable with inventory levels currently and offtake in January has been very encouraging. So, we don't see a reason for -- we really do believe that there's strength behind the December numbers and that should carry through into the third quarter.

In developing markets, there really wasn't a significant difference in aggregate across the months of the quarter. We continue to see some softness in market growth rates, but there continues to be very strong growth overall, between 7% and 8% in the quarter we just completed, from a market standpoint. We expect that to continue through the third quarter as well.

So what we've seen in OND, while presenting some challenges, leaves us confident as we head into JFM.

OPERATOR: John Faucher , JPMorgan .

JOHN FAUCHER , ANALYST, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: Jon, as you look at the move to more local manufacturing, can you talk about sort of the glide path that we should see in international operating margins over the next couple years? It seems as though if you exclude Russia and China, you're probably looking at maybe a high single-digit operating margin in your international business. How long do you think it will take to see meaningful impact there?

And then, a related question: Given the fact that you guys are still producing in some high cost countries and you're seeing this massive negative transactional impact, are you thinking now about potentially hedging transactional going forward? Thanks.

JON MOELLER : One of the big questions as relates to glide path going forward on margins in developing markets, obviously, is foreign exchange. But if you take that out, last year, we were talking about growing profit ahead of sales growth; so improving margins on a constant currency basis in developing markets. We made pretty significant progress.

This year is, really, the same story. On a constant currency basis, we'll grow earnings significantly ahead of the rate of sales growth. I really can't, because I can't predict exchange, give you an exact glide path, but we should continue to make progress quarter-on-quarter, year-on-year on those developing market margins.

As you mentioned, localized manufacturing, but even more importantly, as we continue to bring innovation to those markets, value creative innovation, which allows us to mix consumers up, which is happening pretty encouragingly in places like Brazil and places like China and Russia. I've said from the beginning that our developing market efforts, particularly as they're focused on the biggest opportunities with the highest chance of winning should, over the long-term, be a margin accretive endeavor, not a margin dilutive endeavor and we continue to see that.

As relates to hedging, we'll continue to look for all opportunities to operationally hedge and obviously, the localization of manufacturing is part and parcel of that effort. In terms of financial hedging, we continue to look at that periodically as well. A lot of the FX impacts though, frankly, are in non-deliverable currencies, whether it's in Egypt, Venezuela, Argentina, the Ukraine, et cetera, where there really isn't a financial hedging option.

Many of the other markets, the interest-rate differential is so high that even the cost of forward hedging gets pretty prohibitive. As you know, all that that does is buy time. As those instruments expire, we're right back to the issue that we started with and I'd rather, where we have the opportunity, solve the issue real-time upfront.

OPERATOR: Dara Mohsenian, Morgan Stanley .

DARA MOHSENIAN, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY : Jon, Beauty continued to drag down the organic sales growth number. The other divisions looked pretty solid. I was hoping for more detail on how you plan to drive market share improvement going forward in Beauty and when you think we'll start to see some improving share trends.

Also, in Grooming, you mentioned market contraction in developed markets. Can you run through what's driving that and what are your plans, as the category leader, to drive improved growth going forward, particularly on the innovation side? Thanks.

JON MOELLER : We continue to make progress on our efforts to strengthen the growth rates in Beauty and many parts of the Beauty business are growing quite well. Personal Care shipments, for instance, increased double digits in the quarter, with strong growth, really, in all regions; up double digits in China, mid-teens in Central and Eastern Europe, and more than 25% in Latin America.

Cosmetics, we continue to do very well in US; CoverGirl value share, I think, was up about 0.5 point in the quarter behind innovations like the Hunger Games Capitol Collection and the new Bombshell eye and mascara collection. Our antiperspirant and deodorant business continues to perform well, with US deodorant value share up 1.5 points versus year ago, driven by recent innovations on Secret and, as I mentioned, Old Spice.

Then we come to Hair Care: many parts of the Hair Care business are doing well; Head & Shoulders grew mid-single-digits in the quarter, including double-digit growth in Western Europe and Central and Eastern Europe, Middle East, and Africa.

Our biggest opportunity there is Pantene. I mentioned the innovation that's coming to market that we feel good about. We're feeling increasingly good about our overall equity and advertising campaign efforts. As you know, as I mentioned, we'll also be expanding Hair Care into the young male segment behind the Old Spice brand, so we're hopeful that we're rounding the corner in Hair Care.

On Skin Care, we still have some work to do and that's going to take some time. We share the impatience that exists externally. We know that we have more work to do, but we are comforted by the progress that we're making.

On the question of developed markets, market growth, and our responsibility as category leaders for market growth, the good news is that the developed markets, are growing, albeit at a modest rate. It kind of oscillates somewhere between 0.5 point and 1 point of value growth per month. Within that, the better news is that where market growth is strongest in developed markets is in the US and Japan. It's weakest in Europe.

We are overdeveloped in both the US and Japan; and so from a footprint standpoint relative to developed market growth, we're fairly well positioned. We absolutely accept the responsibility for growing markets in the categories where we're leaders and in the countries where we're leaders.

Increasingly, our retail partners are looking at us as partners in that regard to grow their business as well. We bring innovation that does grow markets. If you look at what's happened, for instance, with Crest 3D White and some of the other innovations, we bring innovation that increases trips and grows market baskets, so it is very much a part of our focus. It's actually more important in many places of the world than share.

OPERATOR: Wendy Nicholson, Citigroup .

WENDY NICHOLSON, ANALYST, CITIGROUP : First, a clarification: the 7% to 8% growth in emerging markets, less than 100 basis points of that, I assume, would be the benefit of new country or new category combination launches. If you can just clarify that and make sure that's a real sort of same store sales number or close to it.

Then my second question is, with regard to what A.G. has talked about, this shrink to grow -- and I know you said you're looking for partners who can grow your businesses better maybe than you can, are you entertaining full brand divestitures? Or is there the possibility, too, of just sort of country category combination exits, like what Kimberly's doing, getting out of diapers in Western Europe? Is that the stuff you're entertaining as well? Thanks.

JON MOELLER : From a developing market growth standpoint, the vast majority of that 8% growth in developing markets that we posted in the last quarter, is, if you will, same country, same category, apples to apples growth rate. I don't know exactly, but I would guess that the impact of any new whitespace business is well below 1 point. So that should be a pretty good number and representative of the progress that we're making.

And I apologize; I've now forgotten the second part of your question. What was that, John?

JOHN CHEVALIER , DIRECTOR IR, THE PROCTER & GAMBLE COMPANY : Divestitures.

JON MOELLER : Oh, on divestitures; sorry. Historically, if you look at our efforts in this space, where we determine we can't create value, whether that is at a category country combination level or a brand level, we've looked at other options. In the past, historically, for instance, we exited the Family Care business, the Tissue Towel business in various parts of the world because we just didn't see, at that point, a financial structure and an industry structure where we could sustainably create value for our shareholders.

We did the same, as you know, in several categories recently from pharmaceuticals to coffee to snacks to water purification and in some markets, the bleach business. Rather than point to specifics, because, as you know, this is something we really only want to talk about when we have something to talk about, I'll just reassure you that -- hopefully it's reassuring, that as I mentioned, everything we're looking at is through the lens of value creation and there's nothing that's off the table.

OPERATOR: Bill Schmitz, Deutsche Bank .

BILL SCHMITZ, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK : What was the percentage of market share that's holding or gaining, both in the US and globally? I don't think I caught that.

Then the growth rate in developed markets, I know you gave us the emerging markets number.

Then my real question is, clearly the March quarter has been a troubling one for P&G historically. Can you just give us some more color? I know you gave us some data points and it seems like, as we look at the back half of the year, it's really going to be fourth quarter-weighted.

I know you don't want to give quarterly guidance, but maybe your comfort level and kind of where estimates are now, the Street consensus. That would be very helpful. Thanks.

JON MOELLER : Percentage of businesses holding and growing share is down a bit from where we were last quarter and that's primarily driven by two items: one is Fabric Care in the US, the other is Hair Care in the US, both of which are big businesses which were growing share and where we lost a little bit of share in the OND quarter. Both of those categories are items that we highlighted going into the quarter as likely going to be experiencing a significant amount of competitive activity, particularly promotional activity, ahead of our launches in both of those categories, which are just happening now.

So the decline in percentage of business holding or growing share is really driven by those two things, which we expected going in and we're very comfortable that both of those businesses, from a share standpoint, will strengthen as the innovations hit the market.

Just for perspective, if you look at, for example, Lever's percent volume sold on promotion in Hair Care in OND, it was up about 6% versus the prior year. If you look at some of our Laundry competitors' percent volumes sold on promotion in the OND quarter, it was up over 20% versus year ago. Again, these were things that we called out going into the quarter, things that we expected and it's all ahead, encouragingly, of very strong innovation that's now just hitting shelves.

Your second part of your question on developed market growth rates, we were about flat, slightly ahead in developed markets. The total is 8% developing, flat or just a little bit ahead in developed.

Relative to the March quarter, I think your statement, in terms of fourth quarter predominance, is correct and it's consistent with various impacts that I was calling out in terms of when the different pieces are going to fall in place. Having said that, I expect us to make good progress in the JFM quarter on both the top and bottom line, but as you think about the modeling across the quarters, it will be fourth quarter-loaded.

OPERATOR: Lauren Lieberman, Barclays Capital .

LAUREN LIEBERMAN, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL : First thing was just on Health Care, very big volume number and then weaker just mix impact, so just curious if that was primarily because of the expansion of the Personal Health Care business in emerging markets, or if there's something else driving it.

The other question was just perhaps a bit nitpicky, but I was reading through the release yesterday that you guys put out about Gain Flings and it just struck me as a little bit too reminiscent of some of the innovation in the last two or three years where it's like this massive bundling of benefits into one product. It's Gain Flings with great cleaning power, amazing scent, plus Oxi, plus Febreze -- it reads like 10 people sat in a room and couldn't make up their minds as which was the most important benefit.

I just would love some clarification maybe on the thought process on why so much in one product where the form should speak for itself. And how this is or isn't different than the innovation you guys have been putting out over the last two or three years in terms of that messaging. Thanks.

JON MOELLER : The Health Care difference between the sales volume and the volume line is really just category mix more than anything. John can give you the details on that later today. Sorry, I don't have that level of detail right here in front of me, but that's primarily what's driving it.

On Gain Flings, if you think about it, when we brought Tide Pods to market, which has been extremely successful, that was a multi-benefit proposition, too. It was not only the form, it was a better cleaning product. So it was an upgrade from that standpoint, as well.

Obviously, nothing comes to market without a lot of work to understand what will delight consumers, what they'll be willing to pay for that and that is certainly the case here, as well. Early, both customer and consumer reaction to the proposition has been very positive.

OPERATOR: Olivia Tong, BoA.

OLIVIA TONG, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH : I wanted to ask about Grooming margins because they were up significantly year-over-year after being down in Q1. Going forward, is Q1 or Q2 more indicative of going forward? And is this due more to timing of some cost savings initiatives or promotions or innovation? Or is there something structurally different so that profit growth will continue?

JON MOELLER : No, it's hard to draw meaningful understanding from one quarter's worth of margin increase or decrease in any one of our categories. There's a lot going on out there whether it's foreign exchange, whether there's pricing in some markets. The cost savings program is itself not ratable; it moves up and down across quarters. I would encourage you to look more, call it, 12 months at margin trends as being indicative of what's happening there.

We're reasonably happy with our margins on that business. That doesn't mean that we're satisfied and we won't stop working, both on the productivity point and on the innovation point, to improve margins in a way that's value accretive for consumers.

OPERATOR: Nik Modi, RBC Capital Markets .

NIK MODI, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: If you could provide some perspective on some of the transitions that took place in leadership in R&D with Bruce retiring. Just curious on the replacement, any thoughts on changes in terms of processes within the innovation group. Any thoughts there would be much appreciated.

JON MOELLER : Kathy Fish , who will be taking R&D leadership for the Company, has a long track record of innovation success and consumer delight across a number of our businesses and across the global portfolio. So we're very excited to see Kathy taking that responsibility. In terms of -- we just announced this recently. She and Bruce are in transition and I wouldn't want to presume any changes in emphasis that she will choose working with A.G. and others to make at this point.

OPERATOR: Ali Dibadj, Bernstein.

ALI DIBADJ, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & COMPANY, INC.: A couple things. One is on Beauty: we haven't really heard much about what you need to do to fix Olay. I wonder sometimes whether you actually need to acquire something in that business, because it is really your only skin care brand, to backstop that business? I'd love a perspective on that.

Then secondly, when we do see the Beauty margins go up, I understand that a quarter doesn't make a trend, but it leads to a broader question that I have which is, when do you expect that crossover point to happen as a Company? The crossover point to happen where the productivity savings ramp up to above your investment level?

If you could talk about the crossover point, as you see it going forward, in the context of some of the supply chain work you guys are doing internally, the new supply chain work you guys are investigating internally, that would be helpful.

JON MOELLER : The great part of the Olay story is that that is an incredibly and remains an incredibly strong equity with very high equity scores, very high net promoter scores; the highest in the category. From an equity standpoint, it doesn't mean we can't do more work, but we start with a very strong asset, and really from a product standpoint as well. We have a very competitive product.

The work to do is in brand architecture, it's in packaging, it's in positioning the various properties in a way that is most relevant for consumers, and it's entering some benefit segments that we, frankly, neglected and those are growing faster than the benefit segment that we're in.

It also involves reaching, ensuring we reach consumers at different ages, which is part of what we were trying to do with the Olay Fresh Effects item. This is going to take some time, as I've said before, but I would feel much more concerned sitting here if this was an equity problem or a fundamental competitive product problem, which it's not.

In terms of crossover point, back half.

And the supply chain work, we'll talk a little bit more about at CAGNY, where we continue to be encouraged about the opportunity to potentially replatform most of our supply chain in both North America and Europe to do, really, several things. One is, as you mentioned, to bring in savings, but also to get to standard platforms across the world, which allows for faster initiative expansion, to get closer to our customers with multi-category manufacturing facilities in a way that allows us to serve them better, and it's something that we're really just beginning to work on.

I don't see it having a material impact, say, in the next 12 months. This is going to take a while both to think through and to execute. But it should enable us to bring in a new round of savings in addition to the savings we've been talking about over the last 18 months. But that's probably two, three years out.

OPERATOR: Jason English, Goldman Sachs .

JASON ENGLISH, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS : Thanks for the incremental color on Beauty. I wanted to drill a bit deeper on Laundry. A few questions. First, on Europe, it sounds like Ariel Pods are off to a good start, but Nielsen data suggests you're still struggling in the market, so what are the offsets there?

Second, with the launch upon us, can you give us more detail behind the merchandising, location, and targeted price points for Simply?

Lastly, what signs are you looking for to gauge when or if the US market will be ready for the next round of compaction?

JON MOELLER : Wow, it seems like Ali has now trained all of you well; you all ask three-part questions (laughter). First of all, on Simply, the price is ultimately the sole discretion of our retail partners. But generally, we're expecting that to be about 30%, on a list price basis, below current Tide.

Compaction is something that we are always looking at as an opportunity, actually across categories, beyond Laundry. If you think about it, we're really actively doing that as we sit here because the unit dose offering, whether it's Tide or Ariel or now Gain, is the most compact form that exists in the marketplace today. As more of the market converts to that, it has all the benefits of a standard compaction in terms of lower cost, better value equation for retailer, better value equation for consumers.

In terms of the question on Europe, really where we've lost a little bit of business is in liquids where we're responding to heavy competitive promotion levels, so it's just a very competitive marketplace, which makes sense as we bring in Pods and people are emphasizing the other parts of their portfolio.

OPERATOR: Connie Maneaty, BMO Capital Markets.

CONNIE MANEATY, ANALYST, BMO CAPITAL MARKETS: I am just going to ask a question on Venezuela and that is, as we contemplate another pretty steep devaluation, has there been any change in the policy there about prices? Have you been able to work around any of the pricing restrictions? Is there any -- do you see any easing of that coming?

JON MOELLER : That's a very good question, Connie. Currently, there are price controls in place. That doesn't mean that there won't be opportunities to take pricing. Pricing controls doesn't mean -- the level of pricing is reviewed regularly by the government and we're obviously in discussions with them. I would say that they understand the need for some level of pricing for both international and local competitors to remain viable.

Also, the price controls that exist apply to a portion of the portfolio, not to all. There is what's referred to as regulated items where the pricing controls are relevant and there are unregulated items where there's more pricing flexibility.

We continue to work to improve our financial situation in Venezuela, which starts off from a very attractive place to begin with. But your question is an appropriate one, as we look forward. To the extent that there's more devaluation, will there be more pricing that's allowed? And that's just something I don't have the answer to today, but something we'll be very transparent about and keep you updated on.

That question is one of the reasons I continue, as I talk about guidance, to hold that item out, if you will, because I have no way of forecasting exactly what the puts and calls are going to be.

OPERATOR: Javier Escalante , Consumer Edge Research.

JAVIER ESCALANTE , ANALYST, CONSUMER EDGE RESEARCH: Question on the negative mix again, but I would like to ask it from a planning standpoint. Could you tell us, Jon, whether the commitments that the GBUs presented back in August when you created the fiscal 2014 plan, can you tell us whether Beauty and Grooming are meeting their plans considering this very negative gross margin mix?

If they don't, which GBU has been asked to overdeliver in light of the reiteration of the corporate outlook for the balance of the year? Or does the plan assume that Beauty and Grooming are going to accelerate and therefore, the negative mix to improve in the next couple of quarters? Thank you.

JON MOELLER : On a macro point, in terms of delivery versus expectation, we've been talking about, in the top line, a mix impact of 1 point or 2 points going forward and this last quarter was 1 point, so pretty much in line with what we expected as was last quarter. Each of the businesses has a strong commitment to deliver their plan that creates value for consumers and for shareholders, but equally, each of them is looking out for the Company and is willing to help out where that's needed.

It's hard, as you can imagine, going into a year knowing exactly what's going to occur during the course of that year, particularly given the volatility in FX, some of the policy volatility, commodity costs, which are up more in some categories than other categories, and so that's an equation that gets constantly rebalanced, but I can tell you that no one in any category is giving up.

OPERATOR: Joe Altobello , Oppenheimer.

JOE ALTOBELLO , ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER & CO.: Just wanted to go back to Beauty for a second. I think, in terms of the question from Ali, you mentioned that you don't think it's an equity problem and I would probably agree with that. But is it a portfolio problem? Do you think that you're still missing that brand that you could sort of slide in between, let's say, SK-II and Olay, for example, on the Skin Care side in particular? Is there something you could do there to address that?

Secondly, in terms of overall Beauty, if you look at these successful companies in this space, most of them are pure play. Is it a different mindset and culture that's really required to succeed in that business than, let's say versus Fabric and Home Care, for example?

JON MOELLER : Thanks for reminding me of that part of Ali's question; sorry, Ali, that I missed that. In terms of additional equities that may be brought to bear in Skin Care, it's something that we look at routinely. It's certainly not something that we've crossed off the list.

But also, I think you shouldn't, then, therefore assume that, quote, we need to make an acquisition in order to get Skin Care back to where it needs to be. There are opportunities on both Olay and SK-II and there are opportunities if we needed to, to create equities or properties organically.

We should think about Olay, really that's a series of properties that were created organically from Total Effects to Regenerist to Pro-X. So I think the question's a good one and yes, we may need additional properties, whether under existing brands or new brands. But I wouldn't, necessarily, therefore conclude that we need to acquire in order to make that happen.

In terms of the capabilities and skill sets that are required to grow a successful Beauty business, if you just step back a bit here, over the last 20 years, Procter & Gamble , with its skills sets and capabilities has built the largest and the most profitable beauty company in the world.

If you look at what we were able to do with brands like Pantene, like Olay, like Old Spice, like SK-II, like Hugo Boss, Lacoste, that came from -- Head & Shoulders is another good example -- that literally started out as very small, kind of one country, two country, less than $100 million in sales businesses and now are, in some cases, multi-billion-dollar businesses, category leaders, global leaders in their categories, wouldn't indicate that we don't have the basic skills set and competence required to develop and grow a beauty business.

Having said that, we are not arrogant in our ways and believe that we have all the answers. We have significant partnerships, many partnerships, externally which give us access to other thinking in the Beauty space; whether that's in the packaging arena, whether that's in the ideation and conceptualization arena, the equity arena, and we're also not averse to where there's very strong talent that meets a specific skill outage to bring that in from the outside.

If you look at -- most of our design group was brought in, and that applies to both Beauty and the balance of the Company, was brought in from other companies, other situations with the knowledge that that was an important capability that we weren't able to source sufficiently internally. So we will take any help that exists, wherever it exists, but I'm pretty confident we have the abilities across our internal resources and our external partners to keep making progress in this space.

OPERATOR: Bill Chappell, SunTrust.

BILL CHAPPELL, ANALYST, SUNTRUST ROBINSON HUMPHREY: First, on the other Bill's question, I missed the actual percentage in North America and rest of the world of held or gained market share.

Second, Jon, you talked about kind of being ahead of plan on the cost savings, cost of goods sold restructuring and pulling some of that forward from 2015, yet obviously there's no change to your EPS guidance. Is that just conservatism? Is that, hey, we're spending more back into promotion and marketing with some of these launches or is that just FX is little bit different from what you thought?

JON MOELLER : Back to numbers on market share, overall market share was about flat in the quarter; and percent holding or growing, I don't have exact number. It was probably 55%-ish, so that's the market share numbers, both of which we expect will improve as we head into the back half of the year.

In terms of the acceleration of productivity savings, I'd say there are two motivations for that, maybe three. The first is we want to make productivity part of our culture; and just like we never ask the question in P&G what is enough innovation, we don't want to be asking the question of what is enough productivity.

We'll always be endeavoring to become more productive and we're doing that for multiple reasons: there's the financial reason, obviously, but there's also speed to market, clarity of decision-making, organization transaction costs, et cetera. So if we were in a position where FX was a tailwind, we'd be looking to accelerate productivity savings into the current year and identify the next round.

The second motivation is exactly as you described which is that FX, as I mentioned in our prepared remarks, has had a bigger impact, a significantly bigger impact, than we had been expecting. As you know, at the margin, while market growth still offers ample opportunity for all the best competitors to succeed, it is down somewhat from what we were expecting when we went into the year. As you remember when we started talking about productivity, this is exactly the kind of thing we were working to be able to do, which is offset, as one of the objectives, macro level developments without having to compromise our earnings objectives.

OPERATOR: Alice Longley, Buckingham.

ALICE LONGLEY, ANALYST, BUCKINGHAM RESEARCH GROUP: I'm thinking, based on your comments about what's happening in developing versus developed worlds, that trends in mix and price are quite different in the two regions. Could you take your 0% to 1% growth in developed markets and your 8% growth in developing markets and break those down into mix, price, and volume?

Then as the second part of that, will mix and pricing get better, do you think, in the US in the second half than the first half? Thank you.

JON MOELLER : Let me just give you, and I think you can get the rest of it, Alice, the volume growth rates in developed, which was 1% and developing was 6%. The mix dynamics, pricing dynamics, aren't that different between the two, though obviously, there are some differences between them. But those are the volume numbers, you have the sales numbers, and I think you can deduct the balance.

In terms of going forward, every problem is a significant opportunity and any acceleration in developed markets business or growth rates represents an opportunity to improve mix going forward. Clearly, to the extent we continue to make the progress we're making on Beauty, as an example, that's an opportunity to improve mix going forward. Each of our businesses has its own opportunity to improve mix through value accretive innovation.

So while we expect that the developing/developed market dynamic will be prevailing, in other words, we still will have some negative mix going forward, there are many reasons to believe that the magnitude of that impact can lessen over time.

OPERATOR: Mark Astrachan, Stifel.

MARK ASTRACHAN, ANALYST, STIFEL NICOLAUS: I wonder if you could talk a bit broadly about expectations for level of competitive activity in the back half of the fiscal year and how we should think about the split between gross margin and SG&A expense leverage to drive the operating margin that's expected? Thanks.

JON MOELLER : I expect that, in an environment of growth, but modest growth, that competitive activity will remain strong, but the biggest antidote to that kind of situation is innovation. We have one of the -- much stronger -- the first half innovation program was fairly strong behind the Baby Care innovation, the Tissue/Towel innovation, Batteries innovation, and the Laundry innovation, on a global basis, and that just builds, as we go forward, with some of the things I've talked about and frankly, some of the things I haven't talked about yet.

Competing on the basis of innovation is something that is much more comforting than not and we're in a good position in that regard. I think the other thing that oftentimes is missed, particularly in a developing market context, but also in developed markets is, and it goes to the point of one of the questions that was asked earlier about market size, we really don't look at this as a zero-sum game.

There's enough growth for all of the better companies to continue to do well, and there are opportunities to grow markets, to create new businesses, to build markets. Think about developing markets, for example; it's really not about share, it's about market. More competition tends to be accretive from a market growth standpoint.

OPERATOR: Caroline Levy, CLSA.

CAROLINE LEVY, ANALYST, CLSA LIMITED: Just going back to Beauty margins, they seem to be as high as they've been in many years in the quarter. If you could help us understand, I know you said we should look at it on an annual basis, but a couple of quarters now where margins are actually going up while the business itself is challenged. Is that a trend that we should expect to continue, the margin growth in Beauty and Grooming, Beauty, in particular, while you're improving things and working to turn around Olay and Pantene?

Then secondly, if you could just break out the volume growth in China and you said it was very strong, but if you could talk about your six major categories which how -- if there were any standouts there?

JON MOELLER : First on Beauty, I think the question behind the question is sufficiency of support for the growth of that business. We are comfortable with the levels of support. As I mentioned, we're working to increase the effectiveness, and the strength behind that effectiveness, of our advertising and marketing programs across the business and that's obviously relevant in Beauty, as well. It gets more difficult to look just at dollar trends and spending and assess sufficiency of support.

But we're very comfortable. We're supporting the new innovations we're bringing to market heavily, and there's no reason that, if that's the case, we shouldn't be looking to take productivity savings to the bottom line. It's a balance, always, and it will continue to be a balance, but you're starting to see, in those numbers, the reflection of very strong productivity progress, which is a good thing.

OPERATOR: Leigh Ferst, Wellington Shields.

LEIGH FERST, ANALYST, WELLINGTON SHIELDS & CO. LLC: You made several references to your digital ad spending. Could you give us a little more insight into it in the aggregate? Is it one-third of your spending and what kind of impact does it have on your impressions and what impact will it have on your future spending on an absolute and a relative basis, relative to sales?

JON MOELLER : We are continuing to increase our presence in the digital, social, and mobile spaces as relates to marketing. The percent that is in those media channels is different by category. In total, I think, we're probably about at or getting close to 30% of the spending being in those areas.

It does offer, based on what we're seeing today, higher return potential and that's why the shift is occurring. You heard me talk, in the prepared remarks, about some of the dynamics of digital, social, and mobile media in terms of earned impressions and that's one of the reasons that we're seeing higher returns in that space. A huge number of those impressions were not paid for by us.

The other aspect of those channels and media is it allows very effective and tighter targeting of a message to a consumer. You think very simplistically about men and women: if you're advertising on TV, in particular, depending on what shows you're on, that's going to everybody; and we can much more carefully target content to recipient in a digital environment. So I expect that will continue to be an area of focus as we move forward, but I really do think this is a world of and, not of or, and we're really looking at comprehensive campaigns across media that consumers want to access.

OPERATOR: We have no further questions at this time.

JON MOELLER : Thank you very much. John, myself, the rest of the team are available at your convenience, the balance of the day.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, that concludes today's conference. Thank you for your participation. You may now disconnect. Have a great day.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
prgml : The Procter & Gamble Company
   IN
i258 : Cosmetics/Toiletries | icnp : Consumer Goods | ipcare : Personal Care Products/Appliances
   NS
c151 : Earnings | cgvfil : Government Filings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020140126ea1o00105
  


 HD
 Q1  2014 The  Procter  & Gamble Company Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
7,787 words
   PD
25 October 2013
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©013 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Welcome to Proctor & Gamble's quarter-end conference call.

   TD
Today's discussion will include a number of forward-looking statements. If you will refer to P&G's most recent 10-K, 10-Q, and 8-K reports, you will see a discussion of factors that could cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from these projections. As required by Regulation G, P&G needs to make you aware that during the call, the Company will make a number of references to non-GAAP and other financial measures. Management believes these measures provide investors valuable information on the underlying growth trends of the business. Organic refers to reported results, excluding the impacts of acquisitions and divestitures, and foreign exchange, where applicable. Free cash flow represents operating cash flow, less capital expenditures. Free cash flow productivity is the ratio of adjusted free cash flow to net earnings. Any measure described as core refers to the equivalent GAAP measure adjusted for certain items. P&G has posted on its website, www.pg.com, a full reconciliation of non-GAAP and other financial measures.

Now, I will turn the call over to P&G's Chief Financial Officer, Jon Moeller.

JON MOELLER, CFO, PROCTER & GAMBLE CO: Thanks, and good morning. Before we get to the results, I want to start with a few housekeeping items. Consistent with our emphasis on productivity, as well as our focus on annual versus quarterly planning periods, A.G. Lafley and I have decided to apportion our efforts on P&G investor communications as follows. A.G. will lead our fiscal year-end call, providing perspective on the year we've just completed, and outlining our priorities for the new fiscal year. A.G. will represent P&G at our most significant investor events each year. This year, those will be the Barclays Back-to-School conference and CAGNY. And, he will lead the annual shareholders meeting each October.

I'll head up the non year-end quarterly calls, and the remaining investor conferences. We will both continue to meet on a one-on-one basis with current and with potential investors. We'll continue to involve other key executives in investor meetings and conferences as we have in the past. Our objective is to provide shareholders the information they want and need in a more productive manner that is consistent with our business planning approach. One last announcement, John Chevalier, who heads up our Investor Relations practice, will report directly to me. John was previously reporting into our Treasurer, Teri List, who is now at Kraft Foods. John joins me on the call this morning.

Let me move now to our first quarter results. All in, sales grew 2%, including a 2 point headwind from foreign exchange. Organic sales grew 4%, putting us on track to deliver 3% to 4% organic sales growth for the fiscal year. Organic sales growth was driven by strong organic volume growth of 4%. Pricing and mix were both neutral to sales growth for the period. Organic sales were in line or ahead of year ago in all reporting segments. Organic sales were up low single digits in developed markets, and high single digits in developing markets. P&G global value market share was around 20% for the most recent three-month period. We held or grew global market share in businesses representing about two-thirds of global sales.

Moving to the bottom line, all in earnings per share were $1.04. This includes $0.02 of non-core restructuring costs. Core earnings per share were $1.05, down $0.01 versus the prior year. Foreign exchange was a $0.09 per share headwind. On a currency neutral basis, core earnings per share was up 8% for the quarter. Core operating profit margin declined 70 basis points, as solid organic sales growth and 200 basis points of cost savings were offset by foreign exchange and gross margin mix impacts. Core gross margin was down 130 basis points. Strong cost savings of 160 basis points and volume leverage were more than offset by geographic and category mix of 140 basis points, foreign exchange of 80 basis points, higher commodity costs and higher manufacturing start-up costs versus the prior year.

Core SG&A costs decreased 60 basis points, driven by overhead cost savings of 40 basis points, marketing spending efficiencies, and volume leverage. These benefits were partially offset by foreign exchange, general wage inflation, and reinvestments in innovation and go-to-market capability. The effective tax rate for the quarter was 23.8%. The combined impact from tax, interest expense, interest income, non operating income and outstanding share count was essentially neutral to core earnings-per-share growth.

We generated $1.3 billion in free cash flow in the quarter, repurchased $2.5 billion in stock, and returned $1.7 billion of cash to shareholders as dividends. Free cash flow was reduced by a discretionary cash contribution of nearly $1 billion to our German Defined Benefit Pension Fund, which is reflected in the change in other operating assets and liabilities line on the cash flow statement. Free cash flow productivity was 43% for the quarter, including a negative 32 point impact from the pension contribution. This contribution was included in our projection of about 90% free cash flow productivity for the fiscal year.

Overall, we remain on track with each of our fiscal year objectives. We're focused on four important areas to drive continued improvement in our results. Value creation, for consumers and shareowners, is our top priority. Operating TSR is our primary business performance measure. Operating TSR is an integrated measure of value creation at the business unit level, requiring sales growth, progress on gross and operating margin, and strong cash flow productivity. Operating TSR drives focus on core businesses, our leading, most profitable categories and leading, most profitable markets.

Our strongest business unit and total Company positions are in the US. We need to continue to ensure that our home market stays strong and is growing. We'll continue to grow and expand our business in developing markets with a focus on the categories and countries with the largest sizes of prize and the highest likelihood of winning. Developing markets will continue to be a significant growth driver for our Company. We'll continue to focus the Company's portfolio, allocating resources to businesses where we can create the most value. We will continue to exit businesses where we determine that potential buyers with different capability sets can create more value than ourselves.

Consistent with our focus on operating TSR, we're continuing to push forward with our productivity and cost-savings efforts. We made good progress over the last fiscal year and a half, we have strong plans for fiscal 2014, and are working to accelerate fiscal 2015 plans into 2014. Versus a target run rate of $1.2 billion, we're planning more than $1.4 billion of cost-of-goods savings this fiscal year, across materials, logistics and manufacturing expense. We expect to improve manufacturing productivity by at least 6% this year. We're up more than 8% fiscal year-to-date. We're continuing the work on North American and European supply chain redesign to lower costs, reduce inventory, and improve customer service. This work will require additional investment in both restructuring and capital, but should generate very attractive returns. We'll communicate more details as plans are finalized.

We will deliver our 2014 enrollment reduction goals, and then work to accelerate role reductions planned for fiscal 2015 into 2014. There are several teams supported by external advisors and benchmarks, working in parallel on plans to deliver these reductions. The teams span business sectors, market development organizations, and corporate functions. We'll be working to consolidate individual team plans into one overall Company plan by the end of the calendar year, and plan to discuss key elements with you at the CAGNY conference in February.

We continue to drive marketing ROI improvements, through an optimized mix of advertising media, greater clarity of messaging, and greater efficiency in non-advertising marketing spending. We expect absolute marketing spending to increase this year, but marketing as a percentage of sales to decline modestly versus the prior-year level. We are committed to make productivity a core strength, and a sustainable, competitive advantage.

We'll continue to strengthen our innovation efforts. We aim to be the innovation leader in every product category where our brands compete. Near-term, we are shipping major innovation upgrades across the entire baby care line in North America, providing superior dryness, comfort and fit, particularly overnight, to better deliver what moms want for their babies. The Ariel Pods launch in Western Europe is tracking well above expectations. Consumption trends on Tide Pods have accelerated even further in the US behind new trial building merchandising. We're continuing to see strong growth in our new oral care expansion markets, and are experiencing significant growth behind the expansion of our 3D White innovation. We're delivering strong market share gains in the US deodorant category, behind the Secret stress sweat innovation, and on Old Spice as we launch new scent collections and commercial campaigns.

We're also strengthening our share position in the US battery business, behind the Quantum innovation and recent distribution increases. P&G battery value share is up nearly 1.5 points for the past three months. In Family Care, our recent Bounty upgrades were recognized in external product testing. Bounty had the top three products in the tests, including a landslide victory for Bounty DuraTowel over all other products. Recent product packaging and commercial innovations on Pantene are driving strong growth in the Latin America and Central and Eastern Europe Middle East and Africa region. Pantene shipments were up double digits in both regions for the quarter.

Next, we're improving execution and operating discipline. We simply have to execute better, more consistently, and more reliably. It's not about exhorting the organization to do better, it is about rigorously following tried-and-true work processes that deliver results. It's only airing high ROI advertising. It's disciplined initiative launch qualification and planning. It's about staying ahead of changing regulatory standards to ensure we maintain the full supply capability. It's about everyone playing their position, and playing it well.

Our progress in operating discipline and execution is beginning to be recognized. In the most recent Advantage Monitor US customer survey, which rates retailer satisfaction with their suppliers, P&G improved its overall ranking from the middle third of the 40 suppliers evaluated to the top third, with significant improvements in areas which such as category development, and shopper insights. Our goal is to be number one, and our focus is on translating this improved operating performance into better and more consistent top and bottom line results.

Last, we're making strategic investments in innovation and go-to-market capabilities. The budget increase in R&D will enable us to strengthen our near and mid term innovation pipeline. Our go-to-market investments are primarily focused on improving sales coverage in our fastest growing markets and fastest growing channels. We believe that the focus we're bringing to these four areas, operating TSR, productivity, innovation, and operational excellence, will enable us to continue to improve results.

Which brings us to guidance. We're we reconfirming 2014 guidance, top line, bottom line, and cash. We're maintaining our organic sales growth range of 3% to 4%. Achieving organic sales growth in the upper half of our target range would result in modest, overall market share growth. Foreign exchange is expected to be a sales growth headwind of about 2 points, which leads to all-in sales growth in the range of 1% to 2% for the fiscal year. On the bottom line, we're maintaining our forecast for core earnings-per-share growth of 5% to 7%. This translates to constant currency core earnings-per-share growth in the range of 11 % to 13%.

On an all-in GAAP basis, we expect earnings per share to grow approximately 7% to 9%. This range reflects some lower non-core restructuring costs in fiscal year 2014, versus the prior year. First half core earnings-per-share growth will likely be flat to slightly down versus prior year. Second half growth will be much stronger. Our second half forecast is not based on a significant deceleration in organic sales growth. The second half earnings growth increase is driven by foreign exchange and cost structure. Foreign exchange will be a significant headwind in the first half, but will moderate in the second half at recent spot rates. We estimate that about 70% of the fiscal year FX impact will be in the first half of the fiscal year. We're also annualizing operating impacts from last year's Venezuelan bolivar devaluation in the second half. There are several second half cost benefits. Manufacturing start-up costs will largely annualize in the second half of fiscal 2014, and productivity savings will build throughout the year.

As you prepare your sales and earnings estimates for Q2, there a few items you should keep in mind. Recall that the second quarter base period includes a $0.07 per share one-time gain from the sale of the Western European Bleach business. We expect the foreign exchange headwind for Q2 to be similar to the impact we saw in the first quarter. We're expecting a heightened level of competitive promotional spending, ahead of our product initiatives launching early next calendar year, especially in North American fabric care and beauty. We expect to deliver another strong year of about 90% free cash flow productivity. Our plans assume capital spending in the range of 4% to 5% of sales, and share repurchase in the range of $5 billion dollars to $7 billion, continuing to deliver on our commitment of cash return to shareholders.

In addition to the assumptions included in our guidance, we've continued to be very transparent about some key items that are not included. Foreign exchange continues to be very volatile. Rates improved somewhat in September and October, largely reversing the large negative move we saw in late July and August. But this could quickly change. The guidance we are reconfirming today is based on mid October spot rates. We're closely watching the unrest in Egypt, which is a large business for us and a base of export for the balance of Africa. Venezuelan price controls, access to dollars for imported products and devaluation present risks, as do import restrictions and price controls in Argentina. Finally, our guidance assumes no further degradation in market growth rates.

We continue to operate in a volatile environment, with the uncertainty in foreign exchange, decelerated market growth rates, and a rapidly developing policy environment. Against this backdrop, we have good market share momentum, a number of strong innovations coming to market over the balance of the year, and savings from productivity improvements that will continue to build. Our first quarter results were in line with what we expected, putting us on track to deliver our goals for the fiscal year, enabling us to make progress toward our long-term growth objectives. We're making targeted investments in our core business, the most promising developing markets and biggest innovation opportunities, and are aggressively driving the productivity and cost savings. Above all, we remain focused on value creation for consumers and for our shareowners.

That concludes our prepared remarks. As I reminder, business segment information is provided in our Press Release and will be available in slides which we've posted on our website www.pg.com following the call. I'd be happy now to take any questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions)

Bill Schmitz, Deutsche Bank

BILL SCHMITZ, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Two quick ones. China, it seems like business is doing pretty well marketshare-wise everywhere in the world except for China. But if you look across categories, at least in the Nielsen data we have laundry, diapers, toothpaste, it seems shares are under quite a bit of pressure recently. So wondering kind of what's going on there and what the plan is to kind of fix that? And the second thing is, and maybe I'm making a huge deal about this, but this influx technology on the packaging side, could that be a game changer going forward in terms of how you make and buy bottles and give you a pretty neat competitive cost structure advantage?

JON MOELLER: Way to get two questions in. First of all, China, volume market share was essentially flat in the quarter. We did lose a little bit of ground on value share, though that continue to build sequentially -- it has continued to build over the past 12, 6, 3 months. So we're reasonably comfortable about our position there. We've got a very strong innovation program coming in the back half of the year, and expect China to continue to be a significant source of growth for us.

On influx, this is something we actually talked about out at CAGNY. It's a disruptive proprietary breakthrough in the packaging area, and when rolled out across our businesses is should deliver about $150 million in cost savings per year. And will allow us to avoid about $50 million in capital expenditures annually. It will also bring significant sustainability benefits. It could reduce resin usage by over 100 million pounds per year, and eliminate energy usage by over 250 million kilowatt hours. And finally, we're hopeful that this breakthrough will allow us to reduce our time-to-market for a package development by up to 50%. So, it is something that we're excited about, and should benefit from.

OPERATOR: John Faucher, JPMorgan.

JOHN FAUCHER, ANALYST, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: Hi, good morning. Wanted to talk a little bit about the FX, the negative FX leverage you're seeing here in terms of from the top line to the bottom line, and particularly how you're manufacturing footprint is impacting that, and whether that's a big transactional hit as you're importing products into countries like Brazil. And then tie that in, I'll try to make this two questions, it's actually one question. Can you talk a little bit about the plan for local manufacturing? You've got a lot of start-up costs there. When can that go to being a real benefit as you look at not just your manufacturing costs but also the ability to be more flexible when you're manufacturing locally? Thanks.

JON MOELLER: So, you're absolutely right, John, the dynamic on foreign exchange and the divergence between the top and bottom line impact. That disparity is primarily driven by very large currency moves in countries that have a significant dollar and euro denominated cost structure for imported materials and finished product. Just for perspective, Japan and Venezuela, which both fall into that category, account for more than 40% of the FX-related profit hurt on the quarter. And you're also right that as we're able to localize more of the manufacturing, not only will we save a significant amount of money, but we will reduce, will essence be operationally hedged more on the bottom line. Timeline, we're bringing on a number of new facilities currently, as is reflected in the start-up cost figures that we have been discussing for the past couple quarters. I would look at that to yield benefits more in our next fiscal year.

OPERATOR: Dara Mohsenian, Morgan Stanley

DARA MOHSENIAN, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: So first, just a detailed question. Can you tell us how much US organic sales growth was in the quarter and emerging markets? And then the real question is, I just was hoping you could characterize the pricing environment you're seeing right now, both in the US and around the world? Clearly, you've made significant market share progress, but you did highlight you expected heightened competitive activity going forward. So, should we expect pricing to deteriorate a bit going forward in the balance of the year? And do you view heightened competitive activity as a big threat at this point to your market share progress?

JON MOELLER: Okay, so first on US growth rate organic sales was about 2%. And that's also consistent with the total developed market growth rates, which were low singles. Developed markets grew about 8%. On pricing, let me say a couple things. First, relative to history, including the last quarter. If you look at price, inclusive of promotion, it was neutral to organic sales growth on the quarter. If you look further back, price inclusive of promotion has been neutral to positive for 11 consecutive quarters. It's been neutral to positive for 9 consecutive years.

We would much rather invest $1.00 in innovation and equity, or equity, because those benefits are proprietary and sustainable. Promotion, price discounting, there's nothing proprietary about it and typically not sustainable. If you look at our promotion, the percentage of sales that moved on promotion in the July/September quarter it was down versus year ago, not up. So that's the past.

As we look forward, it's important that while we'd rather spend money on innovation and equity, it's important we be competitive from a promotion standpoint. We are not going to be ones that are going to lead promotion escalation, but we will be competitive. We do have a period coming up in the next quarter here that precedes pretty significant initiative launches for us. And, it's not atypical in that environment that we see a little bit of an increase in promotion from the competitive set trying to load consumers ahead of our initiatives. So, we do expect that environment to tighten over the next three months as we head into our big initiative launch, again that's not something that we'll be leading. We'll continue to focus on innovation and equity.

OPERATOR: Wendy Nicholson, Citigroup.

WENDY NICHOLSON, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Hi. On the gross margin, I know you don't want to give too much specifics in terms of the full-year outlook, but I assume some of the manufacturing start-up costs are going to fall away. So, can you, hopefully anyway, can you comment over the full course of this year whether you expect gross margin to be up or down? Thanks.

JON MOELLER: Certainly we'll sequentially improve, and should be positive certainly by the fourth quarter, late third or early fourth quarter. We'll have to see where it nets out total year. I honestly don't think that much about that. But we do expect to, for gross margin progress, to turn positive by the end of the year.

OPERATOR: Lauren Lieberman, Barclays.

LAUREN LIEBERMAN, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Thanks, good morning. I wanted to ask a bit about beauty margins. They were up so significantly in the quarter, and was curious what was driving that if it was a change in the allocation of resources or holding back as you sort out plans for skin care? So questions around that. And then coupled with that, was in your prepared remarks, John, when you mentioned the heightened promotional environment expected in the second quarter ahead of initiative launches, you actually mentioned not just fabric care but also I think you said beauty. And that was news to me if there was something significant coming in beauty. So if you could talk about that, it would be great. Thanks.

JON MOELLER: Thanks, Lauren. A large part of the quarter-to-quarter variability and profitability in beauty is being driven by initiative timing. And we have, as I mentioned the prepared remarks and as you referenced, we have a strong slate of initiatives coming to market December through March in beauty. The specifics are not items that we've disclosed yet, and we'll do that as we get closer to the events themselves. But there is significant innovation coming. The other thing that's impacting quarterly variability, which is a great thing, is real progress on productivity within the beauty business. They're working that as hard as anybody, and are frankly doing a great job.

OPERATOR: Chris Ferrara, Wells Fargo.

CHRIS FERRARA, ANALYST, WELLS FARGO SECURITIES: Great, thanks. I just wanted to ask about Tide Simply. So relative to Charmin and Bounty Basic, it looks like the price gap there between the premium and the mid tier segments in those respective categories is much wider than or not as wide as in laundry. That's a laundry premium Tide versus the baseline is a very, very large gap. So the gap between Tide Simply and premium Tide is likely to be wider than what it is between Bounty and Charmin Basics and than those mainline products. So I guess the question is, can you use those two as a benchmark? And how do you manage that? And is the thought process even correct there?

JON MOELLER: Well it ultimately comes down, Chris, to strong consumer segmentation and benefit alignment against those segments and the benefits that they're seeking. And, it's more about that than it is about relative price point. And as you can imagine, we've been working this for some period of time, as you know, and we've been working very hard to ensure that the offering is very attractive to the consumer segment that we're targeting, and is less attractive to the Tide, the current Tide consumer, which we believe we've achieved. And that is more of the mark of success on things like Bounty Basic, Charmin Basic, Luvs versus Pampers. It's that the consumer segmentation and benefit alignment with their needs that drives success.

OPERATOR: Ali Dibadj, Bernstein

ALI DIBADJ, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & COMPANY, INC.: So two things. One is I first want to follow-up on the language in the Press Release in your prepared remarks about the $0.07 I guess now one-time gain you asked us to include in your core last year, although it sounds like it was smaller than $0.07 last year. Are you -- I'm just a little confused. Are you know asking us to restate that and take out the $0.07? Or, what do you want us to do with that?

And then the other question I had is about the 200 basis points that you're saving this quarter, obviously that's good. Is that enough relative to what your competitors are doing? It certainly sounds like you're going to be ramping up that savings number. How much higher do you think it ramps to, and for how long? Thanks.

JON MOELLER: First, relative to the $0.07 gain, what we're asking you to do is just simply be aware of it. We're just providing that as an awareness point. What you do with that is obviously your call, but we like people not to be surprised, and that's simply why we're calling it out. It will be in our core numbers in the base, and will be reported as part of our core comparison. So we're not restating anything here.

On savings, look, there's no amount of savings that's enough. Now there is an amount of savings that's too much when it starts cutting into capabilities for growth and those kinds of things. But look, we're going for everything we think is feasible and then asking ourselves, is there more after that? And, I'm not going to speculate on the ultimate amount of savings, but I think as you've seen both last year and this year, generally we're exceeding as opposed to under-delivering our savings targets. Last year, we had $1.2 billion in cost-of-good savings, that's about what we need to deliver the $10 billion objective this year. So far, we're at $1.4 billion. Last year, we significantly over-delivered the SG&A enrollment, and this year we're committed to deliver our 2014 target and work to accelerate 2015 into 2014. And we really want to make this, as many of us have described before, an ongoing part of our business model, our culture, our ethos. And, I think there's a lot of possibility to the extent that we're able to accomplish that.

OPERATOR: Connie Maneaty, BMO Capital Markets

CONNIE MANEATY, ANALYST, BMO CAPITAL MARKETS: Good morning. I remember when A.G. first came back, he was talking about the cost structure in some parts of the developed world still being too high. I'm wondering where you stand on what sounded like it would be another more traditional type of bricks and mortar restructuring program that would run concurrently with the productivity initiative underway?

JON MOELLER: Thanks, Connie. That's what I was referring to in our prepared marks relative to supply chain redesign in both North America and Western Europe, which is underway. It's in process, and we'll talk about it more as we finalize our plans. But that is a significant opportunity to both reduce cost, improve cash through reduced inventory, and importantly, improve customer service. And we're pretty excited about that opportunity. Basically, our supply chains in both of those markets have come about over years and through a number of acquisitions. And, this is an opportunity to step back and say, if we were doing this over, how would we do this? What are the right levels of aggregation in terms of number categories that are produced at a site? What are the right locations? How do you think about distribution opportunities serving existing customers and new customers? And so, we're pretty excited about that opportunity, and we will bring more information to you as we finalize those plans.

OPERATOR: Jason English, Goldman Sachs

JASON ENGLISH, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Good morning, folks, thanks for the question. I wanted to come back to beauty. You talked a little bit about the innovation slate coming up in some of the margins expansion. I wanted to drill down on the organic sales growth. You were showing signs of acceleration and the year-end, we've seen deceleration despite the easy comp, and it also stands in contrast to what looks to be in terms of the US consumption off take accelerating trends. Can you help us understand what drove the deceleration and whether there's anything transitory behind it? And maybe what's working and what isn't within that segment?

JON MOELLER: First of all, this is a very competitive category. It's a category where I will readily admit we continue to have more work to do. So we're not yet where we want to be on this business. There are pieces of it that are working very well. Our personal [funding] business was up high single digits on the quarter. Our cosmetic's business is doing extremely well. Our deodorant's business is doing extremely well. I mentioned Pantene in several parts of the world that's doing well. We continued to need to make progress on North American Pantene, on [Away], and we need to make progress on our salon professional businesses. So those are the strengths and weaknesses, as it were, and we're fully focused on maximizing the opportunity behind the strengths and addressing the opportunities.

OPERATOR: Olivia Tong, Bank of AmericaMerrill Lynch.

OLIVIA TONG, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Thanks a bunch. I wanted to talk a little bit about the share improvement. Obviously it continues. Where do you think that, that can top out at?

JON MOELLER: Well, as I've said several times on this call, we are in a very competitive market. Our expectation is that we can -- when we get everything working, we should be able to build a little bit of share each year. We're never going to be in a position where 100% of our business is building share at any given point in time, that's just not a realistic scenario in the very competitive industry that we compete in. We've talked about targeting two-thirds to 70% of the business, growing share holding or growing share at any point in time, and that's the level that leads to modest share growth on an annual basis. And so that's what we're targeting.

OPERATOR: Javier Escalante, Consumer Edge Research.

JAVIER ESCALANTE, ANALYST, CONSUMER EDGE RESEARCH: Good morning, John and John. Question again on the gross profit or gross margin side. To what extent a lot of it what is happening has to do with the mix that -- the category mix in which basically the fabric and baby care our the two [UBUs] that are leading the growth. And in that context, knowing that beauty and grooming are a challenge, could you help us understand health care? Why the deceleration beyond the recall of the pet food product? Thank you.

JON MOELLER: So you're absolutely right, Javier, in terms of the drivers of part of the gross margin pressure. There's about 140 basis points of mix impact within that gross margin comparison. About half of that, approaching half of that, is the product mix. Exactly what you referenced, which is faster growth in lower gross margin businesses like fabric care and our paper businesses. And slower growth in some of our higher gross margin businesses. In terms of health care, the real impact on the quarter was the recall on pet. The good news there is we're back up manufacturing full speed, a perfectly great product, and so that should be in the past.

OPERATOR: Joe Altobello, Oppenheimer

JOE ALTOBELLO, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER & CO.: Thanks, good morning, guys. Just in terms of the portfolio, I think one of the things that A.G. has tried to hammer home in the last three or four months has been that Proctor needs to be more focused, and I think the word he's used a number of times is choiceful. And so, on that point, can you give us an example or examples of businesses where you believe you're under investing right now and where you're over investing? And also, could you see yourself doing something like Unilever has done in the past or like Kimberly Clarke has done more recently, where you actually pull out of certain geographies or categories in whole? And also, in terms of a housekeeping item, you mentioned that you're [held] to gain share in two-thirds of your business, I think I was a global number. What was that number in the US? Thanks.

JON MOELLER: Thanks, Joe. The two word choices that you'd provided are accurate, focused and choiceful, and that's what we're all working to do here. Obviously, you can appreciate from a competitive standpoint, why I wouldn't want to lay over many cards right here in terms of where we'll accelerate an investment or decelerate investment. But it is very much, as I said in our prepared remarks, a focus of ours, which is flowing investment to the areas, both businesses and geographies, where we believe we can create disproportionate value. And looking real hard at businesses where we're struggling to create value and looking to see if somebody else could potentially create more value than us.

We have pulled out of regions in the past, we used to be in Asia in the tissue towel business. We used to be in Western Europe in the tissue towel business, and we're largely a North American tissue towel business. And that was all driven by our assessment of our ability to create value in that industry, which we viewed as low potential. So those are things, both categories and geographies, that we'll continue to look at. And as we always have done, whether it's pharmaceuticals or Folgers or snacks or the Western European tissue towel business, where we determine that we can create more value on any business in a divested context, and there are two pieces of that. One is, what our prognosis is going forward, the other is obviously we're not going to exit businesses in a value dilutive manner, and so we need to have somebody who's willing to monetize some of that value they can create for our shareholders.

OPERATOR: Bill Chappell, SunTrust.

BILL CHAPPELL, ANALYST, SUNTRUST ROBINSON HUMPHREY: Morning, thank you. John, you had talked this morning on CNBC about Europe and kind of moving sideways, and I was just wondering if maybe you could give us a little more color there? Because, as you alluded to, a lot of other companies are seeing I guess pockets of growth in certain areas, and didn't know if it really is just straight sideways or if there's any sign of hope or kind of maybe just any color you have would be great.

JON MOELLER: There are definitely areas that are stronger within Europe, I'm not telling you anything you don't know. Northern Europe is certainly stronger than Southern Europe. Southern Europe continues to be a real struggle. And there are markets that are pockets of hope, if you will. But, I want to step back on the whole Western European thing for a second. Changes in Western Europe in the consumer products category space have never been dramatic, and they continue to not be overly dramatic. Growth tends to oscillate between minus one and plus one, and it's a good year when it's plus one, and it's a bad year when it's minus one. And we're not seeing significant departures from that aggregate picture. And so, it continues to be an environment where we think we can build sales, we believe we can build profit and create value, it's an area that we're focused on. But I -- we just don't see a rebound to date.

OPERATOR: Jon Andersen, William Blair

JON ANDERSEN, ANALYST, WILLIAM BLAIR & COMPANY: Good morning. I'm interested in asking about new channels, specifically the online channel. How important is the online channel to you today? What role does it play going forward? And, are there distinct advantages to Proctor from selling online? And I'm thinking of things like increased consumption, reaching more consumes, or perhaps it's more profitable to sell through that channel.

JON MOELLER: Well we want our products to be available wherever, whenever, and however consumers want to shop. And, there is certainly a segment of consumers in some categories that want to shop online, and we'll work to be available for them. The amount of our business that's currently in that channel varies by category. Still, as you would expect, the vast majority of our products are sold in traditional channels. And, I think it's -- the channel offers several advantages, and several disadvantages, just as our other channels do. It's a very effective way to target consumers, both from a marketing standpoint, and then conversion purchase. So we'll continue to look at it from that standpoint. But we really want to be present and viewed as best-in-class in each of the retail channels.

OPERATOR: Mark Astrakhan, Stifel

MARK ASTRACHAN, ANALYST, STIFEL NICOLAUS: Thanks, and morning, everybody. Do you think the competitive environment is getting better or worse relative to your expectations? And I say this in context of some what I thought relatively provocative comments by your large competitor yesterday that have plans to rebase cost to fund investments. And sort of related to that, how do you think about the spending between promotional allowances and real advertising spend? I know you had mentioned that as a percentage of sales it would be up, but up less so absolutely as percent.

JON MOELLER: Now that's true of our aggregate marketing expense. Promotion expense in the July/September quarter in terms of, sorry, the percentage of our sales that moved on promotion was actually down 7% versus year ago. As I said, if you look at the total industry, it was about flat versus year ago. So there are certain categories, certain items, certain competitors where there may be an escalation on promotion, but it's not a broad characteristic of the environment, at least as we've seen it to date.

OPERATOR: Alice Longley, Buckingham Research

ALICE LONGLEY, ANALYST, BUCKINGHAM RESEARCH GROUP: Good morning. A housekeeping question, and then something else. Can you update us as to your category growth rates in emerging regions and the US? And then, could you break out the 2% organic sales growth that you had in the US in terms of volume mix and price? And then my other question is, the 140 basis point negative hit to gross margins from mix, are you expecting that to lessen as you go to the year and maybe be cut by half? Is that a significant part of the gross margin improvement you're expecting? Thank you.

JON MOELLER: Thanks, Alice. In terms of market growth rates, broad strokes we see 1% growth in developed markets, about 7% in developing markets and aggregate. That ranges from, developing markets range from mid-single digits to low double digits, depending on the region. And the developed markets range anywhere from 2% market value growth in North America to about a 1% decline, consistent with what I was saying earlier, in Western Europe. Relative to the 140 basis points mix impact and how that evolves going forward, as I mentioned, in my response to Javier, about half of that is geographic and about half is product. And I would hope that over time as we get our beauty business growing at market growth rates, the product portion of that would largely dissipate. I do expect we'll continue to have disproportionate growth in developing markets, and we're not yet to the point terms of economic development where those margins will be equal to the balance of the rest of the world. So we will continue to see some drag on mix from a geographic standpoint.

OPERATOR: Michael Steib, Credit Suisse.

MICHAEL STEIB, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Good morning. I was wondering if you could give us some more detail on the volume decline in the grooming segment. Is that largely due to category weakness, did you suffer some share losses? Thanks.

JON MOELLER: The category in the last three months was about flat, I think it was a 99 index. We did lose a little bit of share in the last quarter, that was primarily driven by disproportionate growth in the disposable's section of the business where we are less well-developed. The encouraging piece of it is though that fusion continued to grow share, and that's a good thing long-term. And if you look over longer periods of time, last year for example we built share in blades and razors, and I would expect that would be more characteristic of the situation going forward.

OPERATOR: Caroline Levy, CLSA.

CAROLINE LEVY, ANALYST, CLSA LIMITED: Good morning. John, if you could just go back to the North America share question, I don't think we got an answer. Just if you could give directionally were things were strongest and weakest, and specifically in cleaning materials. So Tide Pods, if you could just break out what happened on the Pod side versus the liquid laundry side.

JON MOELLER: Thanks, Caroline, for giving me a chance to recover there. On multi-part questions, my feebled memory sometimes gets the best of me. In North America, we're holding are growing share in businesses representing between two-thirds to 70% of sales, so that continues to hold up very nicely. I actually don't have segment level in terms of Pods versus liquids versus powder, shares in front of me here, but please feel free to call John or Katie or Brian during the balance of the day, and they can get you that information.

OPERATOR: Well, we have no other questions at this time.

JON MOELLER: Thank you, everybody, for joining us this morning. As I mentioned earlier, we're reasonably happy with our first quarter result in terms of its relation to our expectation. We know we still have more work to do. We're determined to do that, and we look forward to connecting with each of you soon. Thanks a lot.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's conference. Thank you for your participation, and you may now disconnect. Have a great day.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
prgml : The Procter & Gamble Company
   IN
i258 : Cosmetics/Toiletries | icnp : Consumer Goods | ipcare : Personal Care Products/Appliances
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020131028e9ap0025n
  


 HD
 Q4  2013 The  Procter  & Gamble Company Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
11,822 words
   PD
1 August 2013
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©013 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good morning and welcome to Procter & Gamble's quarter-end conference call. Today's discussion will include a number of forward-looking statements. If you will refer to P&G's most recent 10-K, 10-Q, and 8-K reports, you will see a discussion of factors that could cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from these projections.

   TD
As required by Regulation G, P&G wants to make you aware that, during the call, the Company will make a number of references to non-GAAP and other financial measures. Management believes that these measures provide investors valuable information on the underlying growth trends of the business. Organic refers to reported results, excluding the impact of acquisition and divestitures, and foreign exchange, where applicable. Adjusted free cash flow represents operating cash flow less capital expenditures, and adjusted for after-tax impacts of major divestitures. Adjusted free cash flow productivity is the ratio of adjusted free cash flow to net earnings, excluding divestiture gains. Any measure described as core refers to the equivalent GAAP measure adjusted for certain items. P&G has posted on its website, www.PG.com a full reconciliation of non-GAAP and other financial measures.

Now, I will turn call over to P&G 's Chief Financial Officer, Jon Moeller.

JON MOELLER, CFO, THE PROCTER & GAMBLE COMPANY: Thanks, and good morning, everyone. I'm joined this morning by AG Lafley and Teri List-Stoll.

I will start our discussion with a review of our fourth-quarter and fiscal 2013 results. AG will discuss our key strategies and focus areas going forward, and I will then wrap up with guidance for fiscal 2014.

Fourth-quarter organic sales results were at the high-end of our forecast range, with core earnings per share slightly ahead of plan. Organic sales were up 4%. Importantly, this sales growth was underpinned by strong organic volume growth of 5%, and was achieved during a period in which underlying market growth rates were decelerating. Pricing was neutral toward organic sales growth, and mix reduced sales growth by 1 point. Foreign-exchange lowered sales growth by 2 points, resulting in all-in sales growth of 2%.

P&G global value share was around 20% for the March to May period, roughly in line with the prior year. Market share improved sequentially throughout the quarter. In May, the last period for which we currently have global share data, volume share increased 0.4 points versus prior year, with growth in all regions, except Central and Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa. On a mix-adjusted basis, May global value share was up 0.2 points. In the US, while we have data through June, mix adjusted value share was up 0.3 points. We held or grew global market share in businesses representing nearly 60% of sales in the March to May period. In the US, we held or grew value share in businesses representing over 70% of sales.

Moving to the bottom line, core earnings per share were $0.79, $0.02 above the high end of our guidance range due to cost savings and $0.01 help in tax. Core earnings per share was down 4% versus the prior year, as the benefits from top of range organic sales growth and strong cost savings were more than offset by mix, higher marketing spending, and a $0.06 per share, or roughly 7 percentage point earnings per share growth headwind from foreign exchange rates. All-in, earnings per share was $0.64. This includes a $0.02 non-core impact from restructuring costs, a $0.04 non-core impact from legal items in Europe, and a $0.10 non-core non-cash impact of the further impairment of intangible assets related to the Brown business, reflecting the 20% devaluation of the currency in Japan, where Brown earns the majority of its profits.

Core operating profit margin declined 130 basis points, as core gross margin was down 90 basis points, and core SG&A costs increased 40 basis points. Operating margin was about 50 basis points less than we had originally anticipated, due largely to foreign exchange. The core effective tax rate for the quarter was 22.3%, in line with last year. We generated $2.8 billion in free cash flow in the quarter, repurchased $1 billion in stock and returned $1.7 billion of cash to shareholders in dividends.

Turning to the fiscal year, we met our commitments on each key measure. Organic sales growth was 3%, in the midpoint of our initial guidance range of 2% to 4%. We grew core earnings per share 5%, above our initial minus 1% to plus 4% guidance range, we absorbed the unexpected impact of the Venezuelan Bolivar devaluation and significant overall dollar strengthening, while increasing marketing investments as the year progressed. We continued to make good progress in our productivity plan. Through June, we reduced non-manufacturing enrollment by 7,000 roles. This is 1,300 role reductions ahead of our initial enrollment reduction target for June 30, 2013.

We delivered over $1.2 billion in cost of goods sold savings, and improved manufacturing productivity by 7%, versus a target of 5%. Our progress on working capital and capital spending productivity enabled us to deliver 98% adjusted free cash flow productivity, ahead of our 90% target. We returned $12.5 billion to shareholders, 110% of net earnings, through a combination of $6.5 billion in dividends and $6 billion in share repurchase. In April, we raise the dividend by 7%. We are beginning to restore growth in the core US market that represents over one-third of P&G sales, and an even greater percentage of profit. US work core organic sales grew at 7% on volume growth of 5%.

We maintain good developing market momentum. Organic sales growth in our top 10 developing markets was up 8% in the fiscal year. We grew profit, meaningfully ahead of sales in developing markets, while increasing investments in these markets year-on-year. We stabilized global market share and ended the year with modest market share growth. We are moving in the right direction, but there's more work to do.

To talk us through that, I will turn the call over to AG.

A.G. LAFLEY, CHAIRMAN, PRESIDENT & CEO, THE PROCTER & GAMBLE COMPANY: Thanks, Jon.

We have spent a lot of time doing a deep dive over the past two months, making sure we fully understand our reality, ensuring we see things as they are, not as we want them to be. We've gotten grounded in the realities of our consumers and markets. I have personally dialogued with customers, partners and suppliers, we've listened to a range of outside advisors, critics, as well as fans. We've taken a hard look at business strategies, reviewed budgets and business plans, and we've dug deeply into innovation programs and productivity initiatives. We know we are not winning like we know we can, and we are committed to make the changes we know we need to make to improve P&G's performance significantly.

First, we will establish value creation, first and foremost for consumers, but also importantly for share owners as our clear priority. Operating TSR will be our primary business performance measure. Operating TSR is an integrated measure of value creation at the business unit level, requiring sales growth, progress on gross and operating margins, and strong cash flow productivity. We focused on business unit value creation because we are determined to have more P&G business units deliver more operating TSR, more consistently. We will be guided by disciplined strategies and operating plans. We will focus strategically on core businesses, our leading most profitable categories and brands, and leading most profitable markets, channels and customers. Delivering consistently strong results in our core business is the largest contributor to shareholder value creation, and an important contributor to growth, and an important enabler of investments in developing markets and innovation.

Many of our strongest business units and total company positions are in the US. We need to ensure P&G's home market stays strong and growing. We will focus developing market investments on the categories and countries with the largest size of prize, and the highest likelihood of winning. Developing markets, driven by demographic and household income growth, will continue to be a significant growth driver for the Company. Will continue to focus the Company's portfolio, allocating resources to businesses where we can create disproportionate value, and continuing to exit those where we can not.

Second, we will strengthen and accelerate productivity and cost savings. Productivity and innovation are the primary drivers of growth and value creation. Productivity is particularly important in a slower growth world, and in an environment of increased volatility and foreign exchange, commodity, and interest rate markets. And the more productivity means more opportunities to invest in core business growth in the developing market, expansion, and in innovation.

Here's what we are doing specifically with P&G's productivity initiatives. We will deliver the productivity program we promised, on or ahead of schedule, but that is not an endpoint for productivity improvement. It's just the next milestone along our productivity journey. We know we can do more. We have already mobilized to address the next round of productivity initiatives. We are working these significant opportunities in parallel, not sequentially, that cover a full range of cost and cash opportunities, our projects are being led by business unit and function leaders, we are being worked on short cycles, some are yielding savings as we speak, others will take years to fully implement.

We have opportunities to further localize supply chains in developing markets, reducing costs and improving customer service. In developed markets, we are taking a blank sheet of paper look at supply chains, designing from the consumer and customer back. We are studying options that would reduce the number of facilities, build skill across categories and reduce cost and inventory, all while improving customer responsiveness and service. This will require investment, but will generate very attractive returns. It's a huge opportunity.

We will redesign and strengthen our go-to-market operations in North America and Europe to be more effective and efficient. In Europe, we will look to scale operations across larger and fewer country clusters. We will evaluate organization design options to improve effectiveness and efficiency in developing markets. We will further reduce the size of support staff, and move from fully-dedicated functional support organizations to a more productive hybrid of dedicated and floatable work resources and shared services. We will improve marketing ROI, driven by an optimized mix of advertising media, greater clarity of communication and messaging, and greater efficiency in non-advertising marketing spending.

The key point to understand today is that we are committed to making productivity a core strength for P&G. Like branding, or innovation, and with innovation, a second big driver of operating TSR and value creation. It has to, for P&G to deliver leading value creation and growth. Productivity will become systemic, not episodic, we will continuously improve our effectiveness and efficiency, we will measure productivity, we will recognize it, and we will reward it.

Third, we will improve our operating discipline. We simply have to execute better, more consistently and more reliably, every day, everywhere, to win with consumers and win with customers. Execution is the only strategy they ever see. Winning with consumers and winning with customers, day-in and day-out is what it takes to generate leadership returns in our industry, and that's what we've committed to do.

Fourth, we will reallocate some of our savings to make strategic investments in a very focused way, in innovation and go-to-market capabilities. These are two of the Company's core strengths, and two important sources of competitive advantage. They are critical to winning the first and second moments of truth with consumers. We will build in past year, but we will be more focused. We will commercialize brand and product innovations with excellence. We will prioritize productivity initiatives, significantly simplifying and streamlining how we work together, and we will bring a sense of urgency to realizing hard savings. We will focus on best-in-class execution, and we'll continue to invest selectively, where needed, to win.

I am confident that P&G has what it takes to win with consumers, with customers, and for all of our shareholders. We have a strong brand portfolio, with 25 category-leading $1 billion brands and 15 more between $0.5 billion and $1 billion in annual sales. We have leading brand equities in most of our categories, we have consumer preferred products in the majority of our brand product lines, we have a well-balanced geographic portfolio, we have the leading CPG business in the US, the largest and fastest growing in the developed market, and we have the leading household and personal care business in developing markets. Both are significant sources of value creation opportunity. We have an innovation portfolio and pipeline that will only get stronger, we have an exciting portfolio of productivity initiatives. We are working hard.

We have outstanding people, the productivity and organization design changes we are making are freeing up P&Gers to fully leverage their creativity and initiative, their skills, and capabilities. They are passionate about the consumers they serve and about their businesses. They're committed to win, they are our most important asset, a critical source of strength and ultimately competitive advantage for this Company. We are taking a hard look at what we need to do, how we need to change to perform better. More business units have to deliver more consistently, we are committed to do what it takes to get P&G back to balance, consistency, reliability, and sustainability in the creation of value for consumers and customers, and value for shareholders and employees. It takes time to work out of the tough patch, we take encouragement from the progress we've made in the year disclosed, but we are focused on the future, and we are determined to deliver industry-leading value creation.

JON MOELLER: Thanks, AG.

As we said we would at the Deutsche Bank conference in June, AG, Teri, John and I have spent some time reviewing our guidance framework. We talked to shareholders and analysts as we've done this work, and we've looked at a number of benchmarking studies. Part of feedback we have received supports the decision we've made to focus our guidance on the fiscal year, which we will update quarterly. This approach is the norm in our industry. We believe it provides a better match between our guidance timeframe, the long-term view we take while managing the business, and the investment time horizon of many of our shareholders.

We've also reviewed long-term guidance targets. We continue to believe that the right organic sales growth target is one that is modestly above the rate of market growth. At current market growth rates, we see high-single digit bottom line growth as the right objective. We believe these targets will allow the Company to strike the right balance between long-term investments and growth, flexibility to respond to macro competitive challenges, and delivery of consistent, dependable results, and our value creation goals.

With that, let me move to guidance for the fiscal year. Fiscal 2014 presents several challenges and opportunities. Headwinds include weaker underlying market growth, a much stronger dollar, higher commodity costs, and a highly competitive operating environment. Opportunities include positive market share momentum, a number of promising innovations, and savings from productivity improvements. We are currently forecasting organic sales growth of 3% to 4%, which is better than last year at 3%, and compares to expected market growth rates of about 3% to 4%. Foreign exchange is expected to be a sales growth headwind of about 2 points, which leads to all-in sales growth in the range of 1% to 2% for fiscal 2014.

Moving to the bottom line, our current forecast is for core earnings-per-share growth of 5% to 7%. Equal to prior-year growth at the low-end of the range, and within our long-term annual growth target range at the high end. This core earnings-per-share guidance includes a 6-point impact from foreign exchange. We expect the effective tax rate on core earnings to be in line with prior-year levels. Our plans include another year of strong productivity improvement. We have line of sight to $1.4 billion in cost of goods sold savings in fiscal 2014, including manufacturing productivity improvements of around 6%. As I said earlier, we exceeded our overhead reduction targets by 1,300 roles as of the end of June, giving us a nice head start on the 2% to 4% reduction we were planning for fiscal 2014. We will deliver this and accelerate fiscal '15 reductions into fiscal '14.

We expect marketing spending to increase in absolute dollars, but decrease modestly as a percentage of sales, as we continue to drive higher ROI. On an all-in GAAP adjusted basis, we expect earnings per share to grow approximately 7% to 9%. This range reflects somewhat lower non-core restructuring costs in fiscal year 2014 versus the prior year. We continue to operate in a volatile environment, with uncertainty in the foreign exchange and commodity markets, decelerating market growth rates, and a rapidly developing policy environment. Our guidance is based on mid-July foreign exchange spot rates, further strengthening of the dollar, or significant devaluations, for example in Venezuela, are not built into our forecast.

As we described last quarter, one particular risk not included in our all-in earnings guidance is the potential impact from revaluation of Venezuela Bolivars, earmarked for foreign currency transactions through the new Sicad auction rate market. At this time, there's no official information available on details or planned frequency of the new auction process, or the underlying rates. So far, we have measured all of our Venezuela exposures at the official exchange rate of 6.3 Bolivars to the US dollar. If it becomes clear that the auction rate market forms, and it will operate on a liquid and transparent manner at a different rate, we may need to adjust our balance sheet, which will result in additional non-core impacted earnings. We will keep you updated on this as we learn more.

Major changes in market growth rates or significantly adverse policy changes are also not assumed within our guidance range. Absent these, or other unanticipated events, we believe our core earnings-per-share guidance range is realistic and balanced. It reflects the headwinds we are facing, the investments we will be making, and the strong cost savings progress we are committed to deliver. As you think about earnings progress throughout the year, there are several headwinds that will impact first-half earnings growth that will dissipate or disappear in the second half. For example, foreign exchange will be a significant headwind in the first half, but should moderate in the second half.

We will continue to have relatively high spending and manufacturing startup costs, but this will largely annualize in the second half of fiscal 2014. We will annualize the operating impacts of the Venezuela Bolivar evaluation in the second half. Stepped up marketing support levels will also annualize, and productivity savings will build throughout the year. Last, the first-half comparison includes the one-time gain from the Western European bleach business in the base period. With all of these factors considered, core earnings-per-share growth will likely be down modestly in Q1, with slight improvement in Q2, second-half earnings will be much stronger. We expect to deliver another year of about 90% free cash flow productivity, our planned assumed capital spending in the range of 4% to 5% of sales, and share repurchase of the range of $5 billion to $7 billion, continuing to deliver on our commitment of cash return to shareholders.

In closing, our primary objective for fiscal 2014 is to continue to build on the momentum we have created, making this year another stepping stone back to our long-term growth objectives. Our plans are even more focused, and even more balanced. We will make choice investments in our core business, most promising developing markets, and biggest innovation opportunities. And we will aggressively drive productivity and cost savings. Above all, we will remain focused on value creation for consumers, for customers, and our shareholders.

That concludes our prepared remarks. As a reminder, business segment information is provided in our press release, and will be available on slides, which will be posted on our website, www.PG.com following the call.

AG, Teri, and I would now be happy to take your questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions)

Your first question comes from the line of John Faucher with JPMorgan.

JOHN FAUCHER, ANALYST, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: Welcome back, A.G., good to have you back. Quick question for you, historically have talked about revenue growth, 100 basis points I think ahead of the market. So, if you look at your organic sales growth guidance this year, it's more an in-line number. Then when you factor in your dropping a decent amount of productivity to the bottom line, can you talk about maybe why you are not spending more to maybe get a little bit more market share, given the growth of the category? What is driving the decision in terms of dropping more to the bottom line, versus potentially spending it back? Thanks.

JON MOELLER: John, we will continue, as we have good opportunities to drive return and create value, to invest behind innovation, as A.G. mentioned, behind go-to-market capability and advertising where we can generate return. As I said many times before, cost savings is not the objective, value creation is the objective, and we will not follow cost savings out the window at the expense of capability and opportunity, of which we have many.

A.G. LAFLEY: John, two quick points. The past five years, two, three, three, three, three. The most recent quarter, four. So if you're going to see things as they are, we've got to demonstrate we can grow faster, point number one. We are prepared to invest to grow faster and with clearer strategies, we will make investments or the size of the prize is attractive, and where we think we have the plan to win. Second point, this is our external commitment, we have internal goals.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Bill Schmitz with Deutsche Bank.

BILL SCHMITZ, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Welcome back, A.G. You've talked about this deep dive that you did. Can you talk about what you think P&G that was doing wrong during that period, and maybe what you are going to stop doing? And maybe empirically how you're going to define success going forward, and let me try to put some numbers about it?

A.G. LAFLEY: Okay I would like to take a couple minutes here to step back, because this is an opportunity to talk about strategy I think at the Company level and at the business unit level. The quick answer to your second question or second part of your question, Bill, is the value creation. The first place we've got to create value is for more consumers, more consistently, with our brands and product offerings, and then the second place we have to do it is for the Company and for shareholders and that's a balanced mix of next sales growth, gross and operating margin growth, and cash productivity.

If I may on the strategy, the business unit level, the business unit level, we want to be more choiceful, clearer, we want to be more focused, and we want to be really clear about our priorities, and we want to be very specific about what is winning for the business unit with consumers to create value. We want to be very specific and prioritize where we're going to play. We're going to be much more specific about our business model, how we're going to win, and we're going to get really clear on our core strengths, not just how we leverage the core strengths that the Company has but what very specific and particular core strengths we need to win in that industry, with that market. So that's really the focus of business unit level. Get more focused, get clearer, set our priorities, and then operate with discipline, and execute with excellence.

At the Company level, the key word is balance. And you follow this Company, many of you followed this company and this industry for a long time, and when we have a pretty good decade, three things happen. We grow the value of our core businesses, whatever our core is at that time, we find at least one major new business that we can turn into core, maybe diapers in the 1960s, Tissue and Family Care in the 1970s, Family Care in the 1980s, Hair Care in the 1990s, arguably we got Home and Oral Care and Family Care back into the core fold, the team did over the last decade. We made some progress creating cores in Skin and Prestige Beauty, and we bought a shaving business, which is core. So that's the second leg of the stool, the first leg of the stool is you grow the value of your existing core, the second leg of the stool is you find some new core, and the third leg the stool have been moving in the new space. Generally we talk about geography, but it's also included channels. And if you really look at the history of the Company, you know we found a new geography, we found and we also found a challenge.

But we need to do all three, we need to grow from the core, we need to accelerate growth into faster growing, higher margin, more structurally attractive, that means less capital-intensive, less competitively concentrated industries, and we need to extend into emerging markets. And we are just trying to get that balance back, and as I said in my prepared remarks, generally, winning in the core drives a surprising -- the existing core, drives a surprising amount of the value creation and actually it's a surprising amount of the growth each decade, and here's the key. It is what enables. It brings us the capabilities, it brings us the cash, it brings us the human resources, to extend into new industries and categories that can be core, and to extend into new geographies in channels. So we're just working hard to get the balance right.

And when you got an $80 billion-plus company that's in 15 to 20 different businesses, depending on how you count them, and the 100-plus geography balance is really important. The other thing we're doing we are taking a hard look at our core strength. again, as I said in my prepared remarks, we've got to turn productivity into just as strong a strength as innovation, because those are the two biggest drivers of value creation in the P&G business models. We have to turn operating with discipline and executing with excellence into core strength, just as we turn choiceful sharpened strategies into our core strength. We still have to have a deep understanding of consumers, we still have to be able to create brands and build them, forever, if we can. We still had to be the innovation leader in the industries and categories we choose to compete in, and we still have to have our go-to-market capabilities and grow them, and we try to create as we go along, some scale.

So that's really where we focused. We focused on balancing, getting crystal-clear about what is winning, balancing where we're playing, and taking a hard look at the core strengths. So again we have balanced, a balanced set of core strengths to go forward. We are locked on it. I think at the Company level, all that's left to do is get the expression to the fewest possible words, which is a burden that Jon and I will predominantly carry in the next couple of days, and at the business unit level, as you might imagine, we are just grinding our way through one business at a time. We've been through them all once, we have been through their operating plans and budgets for the next year, which is another shot at Adam, and now we are doubling down and working real hard where we think we have the most opportunity, either the most upside opportunity or the most correction opportunities.

So I hope that helps, because I think it's really important to understand. Balance at the Company level, three legs of the stool, core, totally new businesses where we complete your strengths and hopefully create new core and new space, and right now, the biggest opportunity in new space happens to be developing markets, which are demographically and economically advantaged, but it's also e-commerce. Like I said, I hope that's helpful, that's what we're trying to do, and now of course, we can execute.

OPERATOR: You next question comes from the line of Lauren Lieberman with Barclays.

LAUREN LIEBERMAN, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: So I guess what I'm really curious about is thinking over the last year review of where things stand, and looking over the past few years. The message of productivity couldn't be more clear, and is obviously very important to the go-forward capability to operate in a tougher world. But if you look at the last, call it, two years or so, investment in the business has not really been a challenge. There has money to spend, and even when there hasn't been a lot of money to spend, there has been money spent to try to drive top line, yet something has still been missing. And I feel like over the last couple of years we have seen P&G have more disappointments on what was expected to be a good innovation pipeline, new ideas, things that would change the trajectory, and this is a broad statement, because it applies across the business units. So in this deep dive, A.G., what have you seen that says to you, maybe we are not as good as we used to be, or why are we not as good as we used to be in understanding what the consumer wants, what the competitive landscape is? Because there have been a lot of shortfalls that aren't about spending. It's about what the Company's been spending on. Thanks.

A.G. LAFLEY: It may be a bad baseball analogy, but we've got to get our batting average and our OPS up. And as we go through this, industry by industry, business by business, where the strategies are clearer and more choiceful, where we know who the consumers are that matter most, where the brand promise is crystal-clear and we execute it and the communication, and where our products are preferred by consumers, we get it done. In any mix of businesses, in just the past few years, and I will miss a few, we have the Family Cares and we have the Prestige Beauties and we have Oral Cares, and I don't want to leave out the Home Cares and others that have been consistently performing. But I think if you do your analysis or we do our analysis, it comes back to real clarity around who the consumer is, and deliverance for that consumer, ultimately is a better consumer value equation and a better experience. Real strategic clarity, a proven business model, and by the way, it isn't a proven business model that lasts forever, you're continually adjusting your business model, right? But a business model that's agile and still actionable and still works. Frankly, the ability to operate with discipline and execute with excellence. This is an industry where execution really, really, matters. And, like I said, with a handful of businesses that have done it really well, we now have 15 to 20 businesses that are focused like a laser on doing it really well, starting July 1, 2013.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Dara Mohsenian with Morgan Stanley.

DARA MOHSENIAN, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: A.G., I was hoping for more perspective, specifically on beauty, and what strategy tweaks you're making behind that business to improve market share trends? And as you look back over the last few years, what are some of the learnings as you look at the performance there? And then also from a portfolio standpoint, are you comfortable with the current portfolio you have in beauty, or are there gaps you would like to fill in overtime?

A.G. LAFLEY: Okay. On the second one, we are continuing and we are always reviewing the portfolios at the Company level, at the business unit level, and again, as I said in my prepared remarks, if they're a strategic fit and they're performing, delivering value, they are in. If they're not, we will deal with it. On the first one, it is not really different conceptually, it's not really different in getting a consumer focus right, getting the brand and the product innovation program right, and having the clarity and sharpness in the strategy that translates to operating discipline and executional excellence. That's all the same. I think again, if you really look at the beauty business, we took the business, we put together this collection of businesses, and Mark and I and others know it was a collection in 2000, of businesses that we called beauty, and in six or seven years, we tripled that business, took it to $21 billion, the problem is we are still looking at it. We actually took it to $22 billion plus, but we're still looking at a $20 billion business. I view that as opportunity.

In seven years -- [Sinseido] has been in Beauty for 150 years, [Wayhouse] since 1900, so over 100 years, Estee Lauder since World War II, so over 60 years, we've been really at it for about 12 or 13 years. Fortunately we picked up a couple of decent assets back in 2000, but it's a learning curve, and we clearly stalled in a couple of places. But again, Prestige Beauty is in very good shape, we went from nothing in arguably one of the toughest segments to a $3 billion-plus business. We have a very fine fragrance business that makes, and it's grown at a very consistent rate from the time we bought the two little pieces back in the early 1990s, we've grown at a compound annual growth rate on the top line of 11%, it is been -- while it's been volatile through the recession, it's been a pretty consistent value creator. And hey, let's face it, we are up against some of the best in the world in prestige skin care and fine fragrance and we've done quite well, and the reason we done quite well is our strategy is sharp and our -- we know we need a certain set of core strengths to play in prestige beauty, and we've leveraged some of the P&G core strength to be a little different.

We stayed very steady on some of our hair care brands. We have an issue on Pantene, we are working it. It is primarily, but not exclusively, the US and North America issue. We ground through those plans a few times, we took the Board through them, I'd been here like six days. We went through an innovation review, we've been through the strategy, we know what the program should look like over the next 6 months, the next 12 months, the next 18 and 24 months. Hey, business has stalled, but it stalled at $3 billion. One things I learned in private equity the last four years, I would rather work -- we spent as much time and energy on a $1 billion business as you do in a $200 million business, and believe me, you get better value creation for if you can get it going.

On the skin care side, it's pretty much the same story. We went from frankly, playing but not winning for the first 15 years after about we bought Olay from RBI to, all the sudden, we took a business that was several hundred million and we turned it into a $2 billion-plus business. It stalled, and again, we took the Board through it and through the strategy and through the product program, we know what we're going to do over the next 6, 12, 18, and 24 months. But these are assets, they have low connections with the consumer. If we get the consumer connections back, if we get the brand promises and architecture collections, whatever you want to call it, right, and if we execute, like we think we can with our marketing and product programs, there is plenty of room to grow.

I guess the last point I want to make, because I know I'm going on a little long here, is remember why we chose to get in Beauty and Personal Care the first place. They are large, they are demographically driven. They grow a little faster, They are big in the US and developed markets, they're big in developing markets and only getting bigger. They are structurally attractive, low capital, high gross margins, and they're fragmented. It's not like anybody is dominating these spaces. There's room for a lot of players who can get it done, to do well. So long-winded way of saying hey, we stalled, a lot of it were choices we made, and maybe things we struggled at, but we know what to do and we are on it. We are on it.

OPERATOR: The next question comes from the line of Wendy Nicholson with Citi Research, please proceed.

WENDY NICHOLSON, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: First thing, I know you had a target of delivering a 50% improvement in your local currency EBIT margins if you will, or profits in the emerging markets. Can you tell us we came out for the full-year on that? Related to that, I'm having a hard time reconciling sort of the concept of balance and striving for balance when you're talking about EBIT growth, three or four or five times your top line growth. I'm just wondering how that such you up? I think A.G., your historical strategy was to deliver consistent results and I have a hard time seeing how that strong double-digit EPS growth is going to be sustainable. And why you wouldn't in your first year here coming back to the Company, find a bucket to put some pennies in to save them for a rainy day, because it just seems like it's an awfully aggressive goal at this juncture. Thanks.

JON MOELLER: Let me provide a little bit of perspective on both of those questions, Wendy, we did grow profit in developing markets meaningfully ahead of sales, so we did build margin. I'm not going to go into the actual number. As you can imagine, with all the currency movements, the number compared today to what we were talking about three or even six months ago is not that relevant. What's relevant is that we continue to go profit meaningfully ahead of sales, and I can commit that we have done and will continue to do that in developing markets. While, by the way, somewhat in answer to your second question, increasing investments. So this isn't about building profitability by pulling back, it's about increasing profitability through productivity, the localization of supply chain, through increasing scale, and through the right choices.

On the second piece, if we grow top line, let's just be optimistic for a second, at the high end of our guidance range, at 4%, that translates asset volume leverage to 4% on the bottom line. And the productivity program, which is about $2 billion of savings per year, on its face, is worth another 11 points. So that brings you 15. We get benefit from share repurchase of 1 to 2 points, so you're 16 to 17, and we talked about a non-FX impacted number of something like 11 to 13, so there is a significant amount of investment back within that number. As I said earlier, we are not going to be guided by specific metrics, we're going to be guided -- except one, which is value creation, and when there's an opportunity to create value through additional investment, we will not hesitate.

A.G. LAFLEY: I just might and two or three points, Wendy, quickly. We have a stronger product and branded innovation pipeline this year going in, but it's not huge yet. So a lot of the pipeline is still in development qualification, or early stages of commercialization. So you can't invest in it, in development. Second point is, we said we are investing back in core strengths, without going into the specific number, we have invested back the biggest amount of money. In this next year, we have to go back to the middle of the last decade to get that kind of investment, and as we went through the strategies and product programs, it was very clear to me and to others that we needed to make that investment back.

I guess the third thing I would say is we're trying to thread a needle here. And we are trying to look at what we can really do, and what we really need to get ready to do, and I think it's going to take a couple of years before we've got everything in place, so that we are hitting on enough cylinders to perform to our full potential. So we view this as a transition year, last year was a stepping stone year and we will see how it goes. Absolute last point. Jon and I and the team are totally together. If we are on something that is taking off, we are going to invest in it, and hopefully we have given ourselves in a flexibility. And in the end, we're going to do what's right for the business over the mid and long term, and we're going to create value as we do it.

JON MOELLER: One more point, sorry, I spent a fair amount of time, maybe too much time in our prepared remarks talking about things that weren't in the forecast in terms of further FX weakening those kinds of things, and I told you before that we are not going to follow FX or commodities out the window just to deliver a number. We're going to execute the strategy. And I would just repeat that in terms of our commitment to do what it takes to get the business growing.

OPERATOR: You next question comes from the line of Jason English with Goldman Sachs. Please proceed.

JASON ENGLISH, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: A.G., welcome back, I wasn't covering you when you were here before, so I look forward to meeting you. I have reviewed the history and some of the initiatives you spearheaded and how you are operating. In your time apart, reflecting back with your private equity experience, and your work in academia, I guess my question is, how does that change your perspective? And as you come back into the organization, how do you see yourself either managing or operating this business differently?

A.G. LAFLEY: I think there are probably three things. The first one is the importance, ultimately overriding importance, ultimately of value creation in a B2B business for your customers and shareholders and a B2B business like ours for your consumers and shareholders. If we get just those two pieces right, a lot of this other stuff is going to fall in place. Second thing is sense of urgency, private equity world you don't have, you have a certain amount of time to generate value, and I think bringing a sense of urgency is helpful. Thirdly, you have to be very choiceful, and you have to be very focused, and you have to be very prioritized with your strategy choices, because they drive the operating budget and plan and they drive the execution. I think we are tightening them down.

I guess the last one is our culture, we had a great conversation about this as a leadership team, and we are going to build on the strengths. We've just got to, we've got to get to a much more agile, a much faster, a much more decisive culture. We talked about agreeing, disagreeing, committing, and going and we're just trying to make decisions quickly. We're delegating the decisions where they should be made. I need to make a few, but most of these decisions are made by the business unit leaders or they're made in the markets where we are closest to the customers and consumers. Getting clear about who makes the decisions, getting clear about making the decision, getting on with it, and then executing.

I think the last thing is, you get on very short learning cycles. My point is you learn as much as you can from the past, you learn from your successes and you learn from your missteps, and then you get on with it. You get focused on the future, and you get out there and you try it the next time. Those are probably some of the things.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Ali Dibadj with Bernstein. Please proceed.

ALI DIBADJ, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & CO.: A.G., from a quick clarification on 2014 and then a real question, and maybe Jon, this is for you. I want to get a better sense of, you're saying the parts will be accelerated, but you're also saying that the restructuring charge will be lower in 2014? And also just want to get a sense of how we should think about capital allocation assumptions on buybacks et cetera, that are embedded in your numbers. But the bigger question, maybe A.G. for you, is the story you paint is very exciting in terms of fixing some things that were wrong, but I really want to get into more specifics if you can at this stage, so I get that the consumer wasn't read right. How we going to fix that as a Company?

I get that execution wasn't right, but what's going to change on that? I get that choiceful decisions weren't necessarily made perfectly, why are you heading to fix that? I ask that in the context of, as you look at the Company today, you've done your deep dive over the past two months. What are the big capability gaps that you think exist? And particularly relative to your competitive set, that has clearly been progressing during, not just the past four or five years, but the past decade, on getting some of these core things that a CPG company does right, better?

A.G. LAFLEY: I feel like I'm repeating myself, so I will try to get this clear. In the external world that we have been in, choicefulness and clarity are even more important. And it's not just me, as I said, the business leaders, the market leaders, channel leaders, customer leaders, country leaders. Point number two, I'm not going to -- we have the methodologies, we have the tools and techniques to understand who our best consumer is, business by business, brand by brand, and to act on it, but you have got to use it, and you have got to act on it. So we've rededicated ourselves to really understanding the consumer, really winning with the consumer, everything begins and ends with the consumer. We win our consumer, we get a higher --

Our business model is very simple. If we can get a higher trial and purchase rate and we can get better usage and more loyalty, that drives the value creation, all right? But we need to be incredibly disciplined to stay on that business model. The third thing is operating discipline. The strategic discussion of the business unit level is about discipline. The discipline of choice, the discipline of focus, the discipline the discipline of prioritization. We need to be more disciplined in our operating plans, we need to be more disciplined in our financial forecasts, we just need to be more disciplined.

And the last one is, and again it's not that we don't know how to do it because we are doing it, we just need to do it more consistently and we need to do more broadly, we need to be disciplined in our execution. This is a highly executional industry. And we have to win one shopper at a time, one consumer at a time, one retail location, whether it's a store or an open market or e-commerce at a time, and we just need to be very executionally focused. And I think some of -- those are the key things, those are the key things.

JON MOELLER: And the answer to the first part of your question, Ali, on the relationship between the acceleration of productivity savings and the appearance of lower restructuring next year and how those things reconcile, I would just make three points there. First, not every savings opportunity requires a restructuring investment. So for example, improving our marketing ROI does not cost anything in terms of restructuring, and that's an area that we are going to get better at next year then we have been historically. Not all cost of goods sold savings require restructuring investment, and to the extent that we can deliver savings that are at or ahead of plan with even less restructuring investment, that's a good thing.

Second, we talked about over the period of time, an enrollment reduction of 16% to 22%. The 7,000 roles we've reduced represents about 13%, so we're going to keep going, and it doesn't stop at the end of the five-year period, but a big chunk of the role reductions was derived disproportionately restructuring spending have occurred, so that's kind of how that's happening. As with the prior commentary, we are not fixated on a restructuring budget, if there are good opportunities to drive savings sooner and more, we will fund those. And we'll be sure to update you on that as we progress.

Last, real quick on capital allocation, we will continue to prioritize the dividend. This year was the 57th consecutive year we have increased the dividend. As I've said before, without the 58, you'll probably be talking to somebody else, and we will continue to repurchase shares with the balance of cash that's available. Our philosophy on this is very simple, cash that we have is not ours, it's yours, it's our job to deploy it to earn decent returns and what's left, we will distribute. Really no significant change in capital allocation philosophy going forward.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Joe Altobello with Oppenheimer. Please proceed.

JOE ALTOBELLO, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER & CO.: Good morning. Just two quick high-level questions. I guess first, A.G., you've talked about looking at today's reality and seeing things as they are and not how you want them to be. So I just want to clarify, what were you were speaking to there, not necessarily P&G capabilities and opportunities versus where they were three, four, five years ago, but more so what you're seeing in the marketplace and specifically market growth, which has obviously slowed in the last two, three, four years. Related to that, you talked a lot about creating value, both for consumers as well as for shareholders. I think part of the consumer value equation clearly is price, and so could you comment on how you sea price levels right now, generally speaking, are you comfortable with the price levels, or does there need to be some strategic change in parts of your business? Thanks.

A.G. LAFLEY: Okay, I guess let me talk about market, maybe some first impressions of consumer changes, and then talk about value and I will let Jon talk about the pricing situation.

First, market. Obviously, developing markets are slowing, but they're still projected to grow at 6%, and as I said earlier, all you have to look at are demographics and economics, and I think that's a pretty long arc of growth for our industry, and is still a pretty big opportunity for this company. We've grown with that -- we've actually grown since the Berlin wall came down and Guangzhou city markets opened in 1988 and 1989, we've got 9% a year compounded annual growth in developing markets. We've grown 14% compounded in the last 10 years.

As Jon said in his comments, we've grow 10% in the BRIC markets this last year. And that growth is there, that growth is there for a lot of the players in this industry. Because a lot of it is still tailwind, right? It's babies being born, households forming and incomes rising and you just get market growth.

Second point is how our consumers changed. You don't go through the second biggest financial crisis in recent history and a prolonged global recession without changing some of your habits, practices, attitudes, and beliefs. We of course been digging into that. I think you could make an argument, I will use, you can make an argument that there may be three critical moments of truth right now for consumers. I call it zero, other people call it something else, but there's clearly a period, driven by the desire to get the best value they can, not only the best price but the best value, and driven by technology, mobile technology, computer technology, the Internet, et cetera.

There's this period of information gathering, education, brand and product comparison, and that includes price comparison. So a lot of shoppers are coming to the purchase decision with having done a lot more preparation. Still what matters is the first one that really matters is the purchase. We've got to win the preliminary. We've got to get into the consideration set, we've really got to win purchase so we don't have a chance at winning the usage. So I think that's one thing that's changed.

I think the second thing that's changed, and you see it in a number of our businesses is we really have to build a strong vertical and horizontal brand and product line portfolio. And it's not just about developed markets and developing markets. It's about giving more consumers more opportunities to try their way and make that first purchase into your brand and product line, and they're going to make the choice about where they spend, based on what they need and want, and based on what their value equation is. So if you look at Shave Care or if you look at Hair Care, or you look at Fabric and Home Care, and you're looking at Family Care, we have tried to build much more robust vertical offerings, and we are continuing to work hard on that, so the consumer can come in at different points. So think about it as we need to trade them in first and then we can work on trading them up. And I guess so that's the market, that's the consumer.

And this third thing, no matter, I don't want to get into the details here, and I'm not going to, but every business that's really delivering, and we have at least a handful or more, they really know who their consumers are, they have very clear consumer segmentation model, and we need that. We need that. That's the math that we start with, so here's the key. Regardless of what segment you are in, value is a factor. So if you're buying SK2 at $145 for the opening price point on assets, $1 billion-plus brand in prestige and ultra prestige skin care, there still a value equation, and we have to understand what it is for that woman.

If you're buying Charmin Basic at $1 or $2 a pack, there is a value equation. And we need to understand those value equations. We are never going to compete purely on price. We are a differentiated, branded, innovative, product company, But we are going to compete across a broader point of price points, and we are going to compete with brand product line architectures that attract more consumers, and give them a chance to try it.

JON MOELLER: Clearly one measure of our success in presenting propositions with appropriate value equations to consumers is our share of the market, and right now you're modestly building market share growth, which would imply that more times than not, not always, but more times than not, we are getting that value equation right. We will continue to refine that, this is something that requires daily attention, but generally, I think we are, across the broad portfolio, in the right place

OPERATOR: You next question comes from the line of Connie Maneaty with BMO Capital Markets. Please proceed.

CONNIE MANEATY, ANALYST, BMO CAPITAL MARKETS: In the context of your comments on execution and understanding and creating value, I was hoping to get your perspective on what's been going on with Tide PODS? Is this a product that is actually creating value? What went wrong with the execution? We are looking at monthly sales that have been flat since the start of the year or the end of last year, even as the capacity issues were supposedly resolved. So your perspective on that might help give a little bit of context to the things you see as you come back. Thanks so much.

A.G. LAFLEY: Well, Connie, I think first of all we are committed to Tide PODS, it's a $0.5 billion business with a lot of upside growth, and it clearly it's a good value for consumers who don't -- who don't want to think about the dosage amount, and who want the convenience of performance that is delivered in that brand's performance offering and product form. The second thing is, yes, we've been struggling to keep up with demand. I don't think we were merchandised until last month, drive that right, Jon? And in the first month we were merchandised, ever merchandised so far in a US customer was last month, so I would argue we've been out there with one hand behind our back, because we can't display it and we can't support it. I think as we reported beyond moving into Europe, it's a different source of supply, it's not going to impact what were trying to do here in the US and North America.

The last thing I would say is, for four decades, you work on a lot of disruptive new products and product forms, start-ups aren't easy, we don't always get it right the first time, we didn't on Tide Liquid back in the 1980s, we didn't on Tide with Bleach. We haven't on some others. But this one is so unique, it's so discontinuous, and for a group, a segment of consumers, at least so far, early returns they seem to like it if they try it, and they seem to come back and buy it again. It is clearly creating value for the industry, and this is a category or industry that's hard to create value in. Left to its own devices, some would commoditize it, And it's in our interest to keep it differentiated, branded, and innovative. Hey, we are taking a mid-to long-term point of view on Tide PODS, and we're going to stay at it, and we're going to see what its ultimate potential is with consumers.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Javier Escalante with Consumer Edge Research. Please proceed.

JAVIER ESCALANTE, ANALYST, CONSUMER EDGE RESEARCH: Good morning everyone, and welcome back A.G. I wonder whether you could, in the context of breaking out the four-quarter organic sales growth between the US, Europe, and developing and emerging markets, not just BRIC, how this execution that you want improved, is going to helped by the changes in the go-to-market capabilities. Because one of the things that actually surprised us the most in the last couple of years is that the bulk of your business was in the US, was in the backyard. So that the inability of the Company to adapt to the volatility of the consumer environment was surprising to us. So to what extent the decision-making process review, beyond making the go-to-market capability more efficient in terms of saving. Thank you.

A.G. LAFLEY: Okay. Two points. But I think are relevant and important to your question. We need to grow in the US. Even at 2% to 3% estimates for the future, 3% GDP growth, market growth, you pick a number but it still growing and it's definitely going faster than Europe or Japan and given our position, we need to grow in US. And we need to get stronger in the US. Point number one. I think you see, hopefully you can see that we reinvested in the US and we started to get it going again in the US and it's last year and it definitely showed up in the fourth quarter, but as far as I'm concerned, that's only the beginning. Point number one.

Number two is we need to do a better job in all the important channels where consumers shop. I won't go into the details, but we are clearly strong in some channels, we play in others, we need to get stronger in those channels and we are even testing coverage, in channels that we haven't served. In the US and Canada. So I do think there is a distribution opportunity, and I have a very simple principle. If a meaningful number of consumers shop in this channel, whether it's e-commerce, whether it's small urban store, whether it's a drug chain, a Costco or whatever, we've got to be there. We've got to be available, we've got to be in distribution, and we have to have the right mix of brands and products to meet her or his needs. I'm totally with you. I think there's an opportunity in the US.

By the way we also have opportunities in Western Europe along the same lines, and that's huge business for us too, so even though it's not growing we've got to get our share. Right? Developing markets is still a huge opportunity for the Company and part of the opportunity is distribution related. Again I won't go back into the details, but we've gone back into some big strategically core developing markets and we've taken a hard look at our distribution and coverage position, and we are concluding that we have big opportunities there. So you will see us, you will see us work hard on making sure we have availability, making sure we are in distribution, and making sure we have the right brand and product presence where we need to, which is where consumers shop.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Olivia Tong with Bank of America. Please proceed.

OLIVIA TONG, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Good morning, welcome back A.G. I wanted to talk a little bit about sort of the commitment to invest and spot spend. You talked a lot about it on a high level, can you talk about it what kind of marketing spend you expect going forward? And obviously the US growth was very solid. Can you provide some color on the sustainability of that and the growth drivers behind that? Thank you.

JON MOELLER: So first in terms of advertising spend, we will again increase advertising spending pretty significantly year-on-year, but we will do it probably 20 basis points lower than the rate of sales growth. That does not mean less advertising, it does not mean less reach, less frequency, it means more effective advertising, the right mix of media, and importantly, reducing non-advertising costs that consumers never see. So that we feel good about our ability to continue to support growth in the business with a more efficient model. A.G., do want to talk about the US?

A.G. LAFLEY: Yes. One very quick comment on the point Jon just made. We are interested in effectiveness. We are interested in effectiveness. We know brand-by-brand in the US and in a lot of other markets the range of effectiveness we can deliver, and it is wide. And so we are holding all of the businesses to a minimum ROI. We are pounding away on communication effectiveness, we are pounding away on best media, our digital I think is now up to 35% in the US, roughly, it goes up and down 25% to 35%.

We have some businesses and brands where digital is incredibly effective and we are doing more. We have other brands that are on the learning curve and they've got to get up the learning curve faster. But it's a brand by brand, category by category, consumer segment by consumer segment set of decisions, and basically what we are going to do -- our problem is not the total amount we are spending. Our problem is the mix, our opportunity is the mix of going to get the mix better and better and better, and there's a lot of opportunity there.

On the second question which is the US, yes, we think it's sustainable. We definitely think sustainable, because if you crawl inside the four-quarter results we are doing much better overall, but we are still being carried fewer businesses than we would like to be. There's an opportunity for all of our businesses to do better in the US and North America.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Michael Steib with Credit Suisse. Please proceed.

MICHAEL STEIB, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: My question relates to the portfolio overall. You spoke at length about focusing on the core business. Could you talk about what criteria you might use to determine what is not core for the longer-term growth prospects of the Company, since you mentioned, I think, a couple times, that you might have to exit some businesses?

A.G. LAFLEY: Strategic fit. Particularly, is it a strategic fit with our core strengths and core capabilities. Value creation, potential and performance, and then, frankly, the ability to deliver. That's it.

OPERATOR: At this time, we have reached the time for questions. I would like to turn the call back over for closing remarks.

JON MOELLER: We would just like to thank everybody for joining us this morning. We are very excited about the direction that we are on and the path ahead, and we will continue to keep you abreast of developments in that regard. We are available the balance of the day, please don't hesitate to reach out if you've got a question. We will also be reaching out to our shareholder group over the next couple of months, both A.G. and myself, and look forward to spending time with you. Thanks a lot.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, that concludes today's conference. Thank you for participation, you may now disconnect. Have a great day.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
prgml : The Procter & Gamble Company
   IN
i258 : Cosmetics/Toiletries | icnp : Consumer Goods | ipcare : Personal Care Products/Appliances
   NS
c151 : Earnings | cgvfil : Government Filings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020130808e981004ef
  


 HD
 Q3  2013 The  Procter  & Gamble Company Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
12,174 words
   PD
24 April 2013
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©013 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Welcome to Procter & Gamble's quarter-end conference call. Today's discussion will include a number of forward-looking statements. If you will refer to P&G's most recent 10-K, 10-Q, and 8-K reports, you will see a discussion of factors that could cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from these projections.

   TD
As required by Regulation G, P&G needs to make you aware that, during the call, the Company will make a number of references to non-GAAP and other financial measures. Management believes these measures provide investors valuable information on the underlying growth trends of the business. Organic refers to reported results, excluding the impacts of acquisitions and divestitures and foreign exchange, where applicable. Adjusted free cash flow represents operating cash flow, less capital expenditures, and adjusted for after-tax impacts of major divestitures. Adjusted free cash flow productivity is the ratio of adjusted free cash flow to net earnings, excluding divestiture gains. Any measure described as core refers to the equivalent GAAP measure, adjusted for certain items. P&G has posted on its website, www.PG.com, a full reconciliation of non-GAAP and other financial measures.

Now, I will turn the call over to P&G's chief financial officer, Jon Moeller.

JON MOELLER, CFO, PROCTER & GAMBLE CO: Thanks, and good morning everyone. I'm here this morning with Bob McDonald and Teri List-Stoll.

Our third-quarter results were on track with our plan on the top line. Market share showed broad-based improvement and strengthened as the quarter progressed. We are ahead of plan on operating profit, earnings per share, and cash flow. We announced an increase in our dividends and we're increasing our share repurchase projection on this call to the top end of our target range.

In the March quarter organic sales grew 3%. Sales came in at the lower end of the guidance range, due in part to slower market growth. Underlying global market growth was choppy month-to-month, and was down about 0.5 point in the March quarter versus the December quarter. Organic volume grew 2% and pricing added 1 point to organic sales growth. Product and geographic mix was neutral to sales growth. Foreign exchange impacts lowered sales growth by 1 point, resulting in all-in sales growth of 2%.

Global market share trends have continued to improve. We held or grew market share in businesses representing over 50% of sales in the March quarter, the third consecutive quarter-to-quarter improvement -- from 30% in the June quarter to 45% in the September quarter to just below 50% in the December quarter and now over 50%. Within the quarter, we saw sequential market share strength, ending the period with a strong month in March. In the US we held or grew value share in businesses representing two-thirds of sales in the March quarter. This is up from 15% in the June quarter of last fiscal year and about 55% in the first half of this fiscal. As with the rest of the Company, results strengthened as the quarter progressed, with businesses representing over 70% of sales holding our growing share in the month of March. We have more work to do but trends are continuing to improve.

Moving to the bottom line, all-in earnings per share were $0.88. All-in earnings per share include an $0.08 non-core impact from the devaluation of the Venezuelan bolivar, and $0.03 of non-core restructuring investments to drive productivity improvement. Core earnings per share were $0.99, up 5% versus the prior year and $0.03 above the high end of our guidance range. Better than expected earnings were driven by strong cost savings and productivity progress, particularly in SG&A, where we are exceeding enrollment reduction targets. One of the objectives of our productivity and cost savings plan was to create financial flexibility to maintain strong investment levels and long-term growth while delivering on our bottom line commitments, even when we face a weaker macro environment or other challenges. This quarter is a good example. We over-delivered our go-in, in guidance despite slower market growth.

Core operating profit margin grew 10 basis points, including 260 basis points of productivity improvements and cost savings. Core gross margin improved 20 basis points. Cost savings and productivity helped gross margin by 170 basis points. Pricing and volume leverage improved gross margin by roughly 80 basis points. These benefits were partially offset by 120 basis point negative impact from a combination of product and geographic mix.

Innovation and new production capacity startup costs lowered gross margin by about 70 basis points, and commodity costs and foreign exchange were a combined negative impact of approximately 40 basis points. Core SG&A costs increased 10 basis points. Overhead cost savings of approximately 90 basis points and top line leverage were offset by higher marketing spending, increased plans and benefit costs, and foreign exchange impacts. On an all-in basis, including restructuring costs and non-core impacts from Venezuela, gross margin improved 50 basis points; and SG& A costs increased 40 basis points. All-in operating profit margin improved 20 basis points.

As we highlighted on our last earnings call, the March quarter tax rate was reduced by the true-up needed to reflect the extension of US corporate tax law benefits by Congress in early January. The core effective tax rate for the quarter was 22.2%, about 1 point below the prior-year level and consistent with guidance. We generated $3 billion in free cash flow in the quarter, which is also ahead of our initial forecast. We delivered adjusted free cash flow productivity of 114% for the quarter, which brings fiscal year-to-date adjusted free cash flow productivity to over 90%. This compares to a year-ago year-to-date cash flow productivity figure of 76%.

During the quarter we repurchased $1 billion in stock. This brings fiscal year-to-date repurchases to $5 billion, compared to our estimate of $5 billion to $6 billion for the full fiscal year. We returned $1.6 billion of cash to shareholders in dividends. Earlier this month we increased our quarterly dividend by 7%. This marks the 123rd consecutive year in which we've paid a dividend and the 57th consecutive year in which the dividend has increased. At the new annualized dividend of $2.41 per share our current dividend yield is about 3%. We remain committed to returning value to shareholders through dividends and share repurchase. Fiscal year-to-date we've returned $9.8 billion to shareholders, $4.8 billion in dividends, and $5 billion in share repurchase. Over the past 10 years we've returned nearly $98 billion of cash to shareholders, over 90% of net earnings.

Stepping back, we're continue to make good steady progress on our plans. We're on track on the top line despite choppy market conditions, with improving market share driven by innovation. Productivity savings are strong, enabling us to beat our bottom-line commitments while maintaining strong investment levels for long-term growth. We're generating solid cash flow and aggressively returning cash to shareholders.

As we complete fiscal 2013 and finalize our plans for fiscal 2014, our priorities remain unchanged. Maintaining strong developing market momentum, strengthening our core developed market business, building and leveraging the strong innovation pipeline, and aggressively driving cost savings and productivity improvements to fuel growth. I'll briefly step through progress on each of these four priorities.

First, maintaining strong developing market momentum. Organic sales in developing markets grew 7% in the March quarter, consistent with the growth rate in the first half of the fiscal year, despite a modest deceleration in market growth, particularly in Brazil and China. Our business in India grew organic sales more than 20%, the 43rd consecutive quarter of double-digit sales growth. Organic sales in Brazil were up 8% as we grew market share for the 36th consecutive month. China organic sales growth improved versus first half growth rates, with businesses representing roughly 75% of sales sequentially improving market share.

We're growing beyond the BRIC markets. In Argentina and Venezuela, local currency sales were up about 20% in the March quarter, and West Africa sales were up in the high teens. Portfolio expansion continues to be an important component of our developing market plans. This fiscal year will expand our portfolio to over 30 new category country combinations. Portfolio expansion is enabling us to build scale and improve profitability in these markets. We're localizing production, which lowers supply chain costs and improves customer service. And we're improving the productivity of our SG&A spending as these businesses grow.

These are two important drivers of significant profit improvement we expect to deliver in our top 10 developing markets this year. We're improving profits while increasing marketing spending and accelerating the pace of innovation. While we're being prudent with the pace of our expansions, we are in no way pulling back. By the end of this fiscal year, developing markets will represent nearly 40% of annual sales and over 45% of shipments. Sales and after-tax profit in developing markets have both increased four-fold over the last 10 years. We remain committed to strong profitable growth in developing markets.

At the same time, we are working to strengthen our core developed market business, with a focus on the 40 largest category country combinations. Most of these businesses are in developed markets and account for about 50% of Company sales and 70% of operating profit. In the US we held or grew value share in businesses representing two-thirds of sales in the March quarter, with over 70% of sales in the month of March. This is up from 15% in the June quarter of last fiscal year and about 55% in the first half of this fiscal. We're now growing share in laundry, diapers, family care, dish care, oral care, blades and razors, hair care, feminine care, and antiperspirants and deodorants. While shares are below a year ago in skin care and cosmetics, recent innovations have helped drive sequential period-to-period share trend improvement. We have strong innovation plans coming soon on pet care and personal cleansing that should help us return these businesses to share growth.

In Western Europe the percentage of businesses holding or growing share is up to 40% from lows of around 25% earlier this fiscal year, and constant dollar share is improving sequentially on a past 12- to 6- to 3-month basis. Japan results have also improved steadily over the past few quarters, returning to share growth during the March quarter. Improving developed market trends are being driven by stronger innovation, vertical portfolio expansion, and more effective marketing, including strong performance in value claims as well as targeted consumer value corrections.

Innovation underpins all of our growth efforts, as does our work to drive greater productivity in everything we do. It would take a long time to go through each of the innovations we're leveraging, expanding, or introducing, so I thought I'd focus on just five today. First, Tide Pods. Tide Pods now hold the 6.5% value share of the US detergents market and over a 75% share of the unit dose form. We expect Pods will generate about $500 million of sales this fiscal year in one brand in one region. With additional supply now online, we'll soon be able to increase our levels of advertising and in-store display to drive more consumer trial.

There's been a lot written and said about the impact of Pods on the US detergent category. There are several base period impacts that are often, conveniently or inconveniently, being ignored in these comparisons. These include our 15% price correction on powder detergents, the impact of increasing high-efficiency washing machine penetration, and unusually high market growth leading up to the Pods launch due to competitive pantry loading. By the end of the summer, most of these impacts will be fully into or out of the base period, and category growth rates should be more stable.

Tide Pods are great for consumers. They provide consumers with a super-concentrated, exceptionally performing detergent, brightener, and stain remover at just the right dosing level, all in one convenient package and product from a brand they trust. Tide Pods deliver as much cleaning power as the six next leading competitive unit dose products combined. Tide Pods are great for our retail customers. They offer customers a super-premium innovation on one of the strongest brands in the world that sells for roughly double the category average price per load in a shelf space return-friendly compact form. Tide Pods are great for the environment. They're the most concentrated detergent available in the market, significantly reducing packaging materials and energy usage, making each load a more sustainable one.

Finally, Tide Pods are great for P&G shareholders. P&G Pods are a consumer-preferred product delivered through a proprietary formula made on proprietary equipment using a proprietary manufacturing process. It's a disruptive innovation that creates a significant competitive advantage for our brands. Ariel 3-in-1 Pods started shipping in Western Europe earlier this month in France, Belgium and the Netherlands.

Next month we'll begin selling Pods in Poland and the Baltic countries. Distribution results are excellent and week one market shares are outstanding, already over a three-share in France and at a two-share in Belgium. We began the launch of Ariel Pods in Latin America with initial shipments starting in Mexico in the March quarter, and we'll start shipping in Brazil in a few weeks. We're just entering the laundry category in South Africa, with shipments to customers beginning in just a few weeks. Offerings will include a full range of detergent forms, including Ariel 3-in-1 Pods.

Next, innovation in our shave care business. Gillette's sensitive skin innovations across Fusion and Mach3 blades and razors and shave preps are leading to improved share results. 70% of men believe they have sensitive skin and these innovations leverage the fact that our ProGlide products have been recommended by dermatologists in the US as the best shave for sensitive skin. In the March quarter, we held or grew value share the US in all three major elements of male blades and razors -- Fusion, Mach3, and disposables. And we're also growing share on Venus blades and razors.

In a dry shaving category we're in the midst of the global expansion of Braun CoolTec. CoolTec is the world's first dry shaver with integrated active cooling technology, which is clinically proven to show a noticeable reduction in skin irritation. Consumer response to Braun CoolTec has been outstanding in our testing and early in-market experience.

Next, we have a strong innovation bundle on pet care. In the March quarter, Iams launched a restage of its ProActive Health premium dry dog and cat food lines. The restage includes new package sizing to hit consumer preferred price points and new marketing messages that remind pet owners that their dogs and cats are not vegetarians. Some pet foods add plant proteins like gluten. Iams has 50% more animal protein than competitive products and includes no added gluten.

Over the next two months, Iams is launching several very exciting new product lines. Iams So Good will be the brand's first entry into the mid-priced tier of dry dog food. Unlike other leading brands, So Good uses tasty, wholesome ingredients like chicken, fruits and vegetables, with no dyes, no added sugar and no artificial preservatives. Iams Woof Delights are our first significant entry into the wet dog food segment. They use high-quality real meats and fish, like turkey, chicken, beef, and lamb, with no added gluten, no fillers, or no artificial flavors. These innovations are healthy alternatives for pets and pet owners and have been extremely well-received by our retail customers. Iams So Good starts shipping next week and Woof Delights will start shipping in late May.

We also have a strong program on US hair care that has returned us to share growth, with value share up nearly 1 point in March. Our hair care innovation bundle launched in January spans the vertical portfolio. Pantene Expert Collection includes two super premium lines, Age Defy and Advanced Plus Keratin Repair. Age Defy leverages a new formula based on our hair biology science, yielding hair that acts 10 years younger by thickening hair as if 6,500 new strands were added. Pantene Advanced Plus Keratin Repair formula leverages a breakthrough in new conditioner technology to repair two years of hair damage in two minutes. The early results of Expert Collection have been very good, delivering shipments, display, and trial results at or above our going-in plans.

We've started the expansion of Pantene Expert Collection in Latin America with a launch in Brazil in March. We've also launched Vidal Sassoon Pro Series in the US -- a complete hair care line offering shampoo, conditioner, styling, and permanent color to give consumers salon genius brilliantly priced. Vidal Sassoon Pro Series is priced in the salon-affordable value-oriented segment. Vidal shampoo and conditioner are quickly approaching a 2% value share, with shipments nearly double our pre-launch estimates. We're especially pleased with the results of the Pantene and Vidal Sassoon innovations, considering the high level of competitive promotional activity during the quarter, which included buy-one-get-one offers and high-value instant coupons. We're also delivered strong hair results in many developing markets, including Wella Pro Series in Brazil and Mexico, Head and Shoulders in Russia and Saudi Arabia, and across Pantene, Head and Shoulders and Wella in India.

On the salon professional side of the business, ILLUMINA Color from Wella Professional leverages a new patented MicroLight technology and is Wella's biggest innovation in the last 20 years. With Wella, consumers experience hair that appears lit from within. Results in Europe and North America have been outstanding, delivering sales more than 50% above internal launch commitments. We've just completed the global rollout of ILLUMINA Color from Wella Professional in the March quarter with expansion to Latin America and Australia and New Zealand.

Last category I'll cover today is oral care, where innovation is driving strong market share trends in many markets. Toothpaste all-outlet value share is up over 1 point in the US to more than 37%, behind the continued strength of innovations across the 3D White, Pro-Health, and Crest Complete lines. 3D White, which includes toothpaste, brush, rinse, floss, and white strips, is driving strong share growth in Mexico and the UK. Mexico reached an all-time high toothpaste value share of nearly 14% for the quarter, up about 3 points versus prior year. In the UK the combination of 3D White, Oral-B Complete, and Oral-B Pro-Expert drove value share to over 10%, up nearly 3 points versus the prior year. China market shares are also improving.

We've entered the toothpaste category in more than 40 markets over the past 4 years, including recent expansions in markets as diverse as France, Australia, Senegal, and Cameroon. All of our expansions are delivering results at or above expected levels. For example, in Australia we have reached nearly an 8% value share of toothpaste just one month after launch. In Latin America, oral care sales will be up about 50% this fiscal year.

We're growing through expansion, but are also growing strongly in established markets behind innovation. In Mexico oral care sales are projected to be up nearly 40% this fiscal year. In Brazil, a market we entered four years ago, local currency sales are forecasted to grow by more than 60% and shares up by nearly 4 points.

Now as you know, innovation is not just about invention. It's also about execution. We're delivering improved results across all of our innovations by strengthening our execution with both consumers and retailers. Our communications contain stronger performance and value claims on air, in digital media, on the package, and at the shelf, that demonstrates the superior value our brands provide. We're improving customer service levels which, along with improved innovation, are being recognized by our retail partners and in third-party evaluations. For example, Kantar Retail's recently-released China power rankings named P&G the overall winner by a wider margin than last year.

We're increasing distribution in our top emerging markets like China, Brazil, Russia, India, and Africa. We're also gaining new distribution with key retailers in developed markets based on the strength of our leading brands and commitment to leading innovation. For growing share and distribution, for example, in the discounter channel, we grew sales double digits in the channel for the quarter and are increasing distribution with new and existing retail partners. We've also been successful in expanding distribution of Duracell batteries across several important accounts. This should continue to strengthen Duracell results in the coming quarters.

So we have a very strong innovation program that we're working to execute well globally. Like innovation, productivity also underpins all of our developed and developing market efforts. And here, too, we're making strong progress. The overhead reduction plan we announced last February called for a reduction in non-manufacturing staffing of 10%, or roughly 5,700 rolls by the end of this fiscal year -- so by June 30. As of the end of March, we've reduced 6,250 rolls, putting us 550 rolls, or about 10%, above the fiscal-year commitment with a full quarter still to go. Exceeding our goals this year gives us a running start on our announced plans to further reduce non-manufacturing enrollment by an additional 2% to 4% each year over the next three years, bringing the total reduction to between 16% and 22% by the end of fiscal 2016.

We're making good progress on the organization design work being led by Jorge Uribe and a team of senior business leaders. And we're feeling confident in our ability to deliver the additional enrollment reduction objectives. We're on track to deliver more than $1.2 billion in savings this fiscal year in cost of goods sold. Our efforts in this area include a targeted 5% net productivity increase across our manufacturing operations, even as we add new manufacturing capacity and enrollment in developing markets. This will allow us to add about 20 new manufacturing operations with no increase in head count. So far this year we're tracking well ahead of target at nearly 7% manufacturing productivity improvement.

While we're still early in the planning process, we already have line of sight to at least $1.3 billion in additional cost and goods savings for next fiscal year. We're also achieving efficiencies in marketing spending and are reinvesting these savings in strengthened plans to support our innovations and expansions. We're shifting a greater portion of media spending to digital, which offers a higher return on investment. We're also making good progress in cost savings in non-media marketing spending. As we embrace our cost savings work, we will continue to keep our eye on the overriding objective of shareholder value creation, with growth being an important part of this. In our efforts to cut costs we will not compromise our growth prospects or capabilities. We are building and executing our strategy with the objective of getting this savings and growth balance right.

Now let me turn to our updated outlook for fiscal year 2013 and the April-June quarter. Starting with the fiscal year, we're holding our organic sales growth guidance range, which we improved last quarter, at 3% to 4%. Given results in the first 3 quarters, it's likely we will be closer to 3% than 4% for the full year. We expect all-in sales growth in a range of 1% to 2%. This includes a foreign exchange headwind of 2 points based on year-to-date results and mid-April spot rates for the fourth quarter. We're raising the low end of our core earnings per share guidance range by $0.02 to $3.96 to $4.04, equating to an increase of 3% to 5% compared to prior-year quarter earnings per share of $3.85.

I want to repeat what I've said on several previous occasions relative to guidance. We've set a guidance range for a reason. We are committed to deliver a plan that creates long-term value for our shareholders. We will not chase commodities or currency out the window just to deliver a top-of-range guidance number. We will execute our plan and we'll do it in the most fiscally responsible way we know how. We believe that our core earnings per share guidance range is realistic, not conservative, given several profit headwinds we are facing.

As I mentioned earlier, market growth rates have weakened, dynamics in countries such as Venezuela, Argentina, Egypt, Syria, and South Korea continue to be very volatile. Foreign exchange has moved against us in markets such as Japan, Brazil, Argentina, and, of course, Venezuela. We're incurring preproduction expenses in costs of goods sold as we start up several manufacturing operations simultaneously around the world. And we're investing in marketing to drive our strong innovation pipeline.

We're adjusting our all-in earnings per share range to $3.90 to $3.98. This range reflects the improvement in core earnings per share expectations, updated estimates for non-core restructuring costs, and the non-core impact of Venezuela currency devaluation. The all-in earnings outlook now includes approximately $0.19 per share of non-core restructuring investments, an increase of $0.04 since our last estimate, due mainly to higher-than-expected enrollment reductions this fiscal year.

One risk not included in our all-in earnings guidance is the potential impact from revaluation of Venezuelan bolivars earmarked for foreign currency transactions through the former Sitme market. Venezuela has created a state-run Sicad auction market to replace Sitme. At this time there is no official information available on the details or planned frequency of the auction process or the underlying rates. So far we've measured all of our Venezuela exposures at the official exchange rate of 6.3 bolivars to the US dollar. If it becomes clear as a Sicad market forms that it will operate in a liquid and transparent manner at a different rate, we may need to adjust our balance sheet, which will result in additional non-core impact on earnings. We'll keep you updated on this as we learn more.

We continue to expect free cash flow productivity of 90% of net earnings for the year. We increased the dividend by 7% earlier this month, and are increasing our share repurchase target to $6 billion, which is at the top end of our prior guidance range of $5 billion to $6 billion. For the April to June quarter we're estimating organic sales growth in the range of 3% to 4%. Foreign exchange is expected to be a 2-point headwind to sales growth, which leads to all-in sales growth guidance in the range of 1% to 2%. On the bottom line we expect June quarter core earnings per share in the range of $0.69 to $0.77. We expect the effective tax rate for the June quarter to be somewhat higher than the previous year's rate. On an all-in basis we estimate earnings per share in the range of $0.67 to $0.75, including non-core restructuring charges of approximately $0.02 per share.

In summary, our third-quarter results were on track with our plan on the top line; market share showed broad-based improvement; we're ahead of plan on operating profit, earnings per share, and cash flow. We've announced an increase in our dividend, our increase in our share repurchase target, and have modestly tightened our fiscal year earnings-per-share guidance range. Having said this, we still have more work to do. The next piece of this work is planning for 2014, which we're starting now.

We plan to give guidance for 2014 at our next earnings call which is scheduled for Thursday, August 1. This will give us appropriate time to develop strong plans and more fully assess macro dynamics like foreign exchange and commodities, market dynamics like Venezuela and Argentina, and internal dynamics such as pension costs, new category expansions and new innovations, before providing our outlook. We remain confident that our focus areas -- maintaining momentum in developing markets, strengthening our core developed market business, building and leveraging a strong innovation pipeline, and aggressively driving cost savings and productivity improvement -- are the right ones; and that executing these with excellence should generate over time the kind of earnings progress that will put us among the best in our industry. This, combined with strong cash flow and a track record of capital returned to shareholders, should enable us to generate superior levels of shareholder return.

That concludes our prepared remarks. As a reminder, business segment information is provided in our press release and will be available in slides which will be posted on our website, www.PG.com, following the call. Bob, Teri and I would be happy to take your questions, and the IR team will be available after the call to provide additional perspective.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions)

Lauren Lieberman, Barclays Capital.

LAUREN LIEBERMAN, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: I was hoping you guys could talk a little bit more about beauty care. Clearly very good news to hear about how the US hair care portfolio is performing in the US, especially given how competitive it's been. But beauty care volume down one, organic sales down one, there's obviously a lot there you didn't talk about, most notably probably skin care and I'm guessing also the overall China business. Thanks.

BOB MCDONALD, PRESIDENT, CEO, & CHAIRMAN, PROCTER & GAMBLE CO: Lauren, I think in beauty and grooming we have three key points. Number one is we've got a strong portfolio of leading brands. Number two is we've got clear plans and sufficient innovation to address these near-term opportunities you're asking about. And number three, there's a significant opportunity to expand and grow our beauty and grooming business beyond where it is today. Let me deal with the clear plans and sufficient innovation piece, since I think that's where your question is coming from. As you suggested in hair care we're expanding the portfolio vertically with innovations like Vidal Sassoon Pro Series and the salon affordable segment and Pantene Expert Series and Super Premium segment and this is a return to US hair care to share growth with value share up one point in March, as Jon mentioned.

In the US, Expert Collection shipments, display and trial results are all at or above expectation and Vidal Sassoon shampoo and conditioner is quickly approaching a 2% value share and shipments are nearly double our pre-launch estimates. In blades and razors, our Sensitive Skin innovation across Fusion and Mach3 blades and razors and shave preps is leading to improved share results. We're holding or growing value share in the US on Fusion, Mach3 and disposables and we're also growing share on Venus blades and razors. In cosmetics, share trends have improved sequentially over the past two quarters behind three exciting Cover Girl innovations, Clump Crusher Mascara by LashBlast, Outlast Stay Brilliant Nail Gloss and Stay Fabulous 3-in-1 Foundation. In salon professional, we've returned to growth behind the launch of ILLUMINA Color, which is delivering sales more than 50% above going-in estimates.

$1 billion beauty and grooming brands, I've talked about the strength of them. And then in skin care, which was the point you asked about, skin care in China, we've launched several new innovations including upgrades to our existing lines and new innovations that address key segments that we have portfolio gaps. Examples in the United States new Olay Regenerist Micro-Sculpting Cream, Total Effects CC Cream, Olay Fresh Effects. In China, Uline New Naturals, Pro-X Whitening, a restage of the Olay brand, new counters, and the launch of a new mid-tier brand. So results are improving sequentially and I expect that sequential improvement to continue.

JON MOELLER: I think if you look at -- as I mentioned in the share comments, Lauren, versus a year ago you are absolutely right that skin care continues to be a drag in terms of market share being down versus a year ago. We have more work to do there, but as Bob indicated there have been a number of things that have been just recently put out on the market that we hope to drive that behind.

BOB MCDONALD: China beauty shipments grew double digits this quarter.

OPERATOR: John Faucher, JPMorgan.

JOHN FAUCHER, ANALYST, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: Yes, thanks. You know, as we look at lower raw material inflation over the course of calendar 2013, you really see less pricing in the category and I guess we're not seeing a volume bounce back, which is what's leading to deceleration in overall organic top line growth maybe in these categories. So, can you talk about what you're seeing from an elasticity standpoint as we look at less pricing and how you think that maybe plays out over the course of the year? Thanks.

BOB MCDONALD: Well to me John -- Jon talked about the fact that in the quarter we saw a half a point reduction in growth versus the previous quarter. I think the economic recovery is going to continue to be choppy as we alluded to in our remarks. And to me the ultimate response is growth through innovation and growth through productivity improvement. We are going to continue to work on our productivity improvement. Jon talked about the fact we're ahead of the pace that we expected to be at this point in time. Some of that productivity improvement will fall to the bottom line. Some of that productivity improvement will fuel the launch of the new innovations and the new market category combinations.

And as Jon said we are not pulling back. We've introduced 30 new category country combinations this year and we're going to continue to do that and Jon went through a litany of those, including the broad global expansion of our oral care business. So we're expecting sequential improvement in the top line driven by innovation. And we're expecting continued sequential improvement in market share just as we tried to indicate with this quarter's report.

OPERATOR: Dara Mohsenian, Morgan Stanley.

DARA MOHSENIAN, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Hi Bob, I just wanted to focus on the top line. The two-year average organic sales growth decelerated in the quarter versus Q2 in last year despite the higher marketing and the greater innovation. And it looks like it was even rounded up to get to 3%. I know you mentioned weaker market growth but how comfortable are you that you are getting a solid ROI on the investments you are making in marketing and innovation and the other areas given the lack of a top line payback this quarter? And second, more importantly, to broaden of the question longer-term, it seems like in recent history you've been a bit at mercy of variances and market growth, at the competitive environment from the top line perspective, obviously that will impact any company. But market share has only improved modestly here sequentially in the last couple quarters despite the price adjustment. So can you take us through some more detail on what you're doing internally from a market share standpoint to manage through the external environment and your level of confidence that you can sustainably turn around market share as we look out over the next couple of years here?

BOB MCDONALD: Dara, I'm very confident in our sequential improvement in market share driven by innovation. I would differ with your characterization. I think we've made substantial progress in increasing the percent of our business growing market share. And I think that ties pretty directly to the innovations you've seen. I mean, a classic example is the fact that Tide Pods is helping us grow laundry market share in the US and it's only on one brand in one country and it's worth $0.5 billion of top line. I think we're in the early days of seeing these innovations have a broader impact globally and that will translate to an accelerated growth on the top line.

We are continuing to invest in innovation. We've increased the spending on research and development the past three years and we're going to continue to make sure that we're building the capability to keep that innovation going. And the results in the marketplace are demonstrating that we're executing with excellence today, more so perhaps than the previous period you were talking about. So I'm confident we're going to continue this sequential improvement and you'll see it in the sharing, you'll see it in the top line.

JON MOELLER: I share Bob's confidence. If you just step back over the last couple years as we've discussed many times from a geographic standpoint, the one market that we weren't growing in that we needed to grow in was North America. And that's obviously a large part of our business. And if you just look at the percentage of businesses holding or growing share there, growing from 15% in the June quarter to 55% in the first half of this fiscal year to two-thirds in the March quarter to over 70% in the month of March, that gives us a lot of confidence that we're on the right trail here.

OPERATOR: Wendy Nicholson, Citi Research.

WENDY NICHOLSON, ANALYST, CITI RESEARCH: Hi, good morning. My question is on the gross margin and the expansion slowed significantly, I think on a sequential basis. And you called out sort of the startup costs with the new production facilities. So is that all of the plants coming online in the emerging markets or is that also just innovation stuff that's launching in the US? And if it's the emerging market stuff, is that something that's going to be here to stay for the next couple of quarters or do we think gross margin's going to re-accelerate with the better commodity backdrop? Thanks.

JON MOELLER: Thanks Wendy. It is both of the things you mentioned. It's emerging markets, start up of localized manufacturing in emerging markets. It is also the start up of manufacturing operations to support our innovations in developed markets, for example the Pods start-up in Europe. Both of those will be with us next quarter and is one of the reasons that you see some of the trends that you do. But I don't expect this to be an ongoing dynamic. This should be another quarter or two.

BOB MCDONALD: One of the things we work hard on, Wendy, is ramping up our process reliability as vertically as we can when we start up a new plant and process reliability is, in a sense, the amount of throughput that you get from a plant versus what you expect. And our process reliability as a company is now at the highest level it's ever been. And that is what's leading -- helping to lead to some of the productivity improvements you see in manufacturing productivity. Because as we increase the throughput of every single plant, we then don't need to buy additional capacity. In essence that capacity comes with the productivity improvement. So we're going to continue to work as we start up these new plants to get the process reliability curve as vertical as possible to minimize those expenses.

OPERATOR: Bill Schmitz, Deutsche Bank

BILL SCHMITZ, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Thanks. Good morning, guys. Can you just talk about the sort of fourth-quarter guidance and all the re-investments? Do you think about it -- you did 3% organic growth in the year ago quarter. You've announced a massive restructuring. You've reinvested all this money back in the business, but it seems like organic growth is just going to be flat. So, is it really just category growth contraction?

And then what would happen if we really did have some commodity inflation, because I think you had like 260 basis points of productivity savings in the quarter? I think that kind of carries forward. So what's sort of the puts and takes and how long is this negative mix impact going to last? And I know that was a long question, so I apologize.

JON MOELLER: Wow. I'm not quite sure how to cut through that, Bill. (laughter) I'll try. So first of all just let me step back on our guidance philosophy, since your question started with guidance. You know, last quarter we over-delivered our guidance. We increased guidance a little bit but invested a lot of the money back to ensure that we continue to leverage the innovation pipeline we have and sequentially build market share. Effectively this quarter we've done the same thing.

We've over-delivered by a little bit. We've taken up the bottom line -- or the bottom end of the guidance range, but are going to continue to invest to get the share where it needs to be going forward. As we invest to do that and drive higher profitability through our productivity, I'm confident that the returns will be there because each case we are growing is worth more. And I expect from a commodity standpoint, if anything, maybe a little bit of -- they're fairly benign. I don't expect a big impact going forward.

So these productivity savings should begin to impact both gross margin and operating margin as they have in prior quarters, particularly when we get beyond the startup of these new manufacturing facilities that Wendy was describing. So I see accelerating top line based on continued market share progress, kind of irrespective of market size. And the productivity savings over time enabling us to both fuel that and drive earnings-per-share growth.

OPERATOR: Chris Ferrara, Bank of America.

CHRIS FERRARA, ANALYST, BANK OF AMERICA: Thanks. Guys, I guess I wanted to try to pull together some of the comments you've made on your confidence in the market share recovery, the timing of the build out of the innovation pipeline. It seems like there has been no shortage of new products for the second half of 2013, yet a couple of things. The Q4 organic guidance implies only flattish market share at 3% to 4%. You're saying momentum was building through the quarter, but the Q4 outlook is not even an acceleration from Q3 when you came in at the low end of your organic range. So I get that you're saying it's early days and some progress is made, but wouldn't you have expected that share recovery to have kicked in a little bit more by now and if so why do you think it hasn't and if not why not?

BOB MCDONALD: Obviously the market share is affected by many factors, Chris. Some of which are external but I would say that all in all, as we step back from it, we're on track with what we want to deliver in terms of sequential improvement and market share and we expect that to continue. We expect that to continue in the fourth quarter and we're looking forward to the next fiscal year. The innovations, many of which we've talked about, are one country one brand, and they're supported by a technology platform that we will put across more countries and more brands. I mean, we talked about Pods and we talked about the entry of Pods into parts of Europe, into parts of Latin America, into parts of Africa.

This is only now starting. You're not -- we're just now shipping those cases, taking those orders. You're not seeing the impact in the marketplace at all yet. I think by the end of the quarter you obviously see that impact and just like this quarter it will ramp up through the quarter and as we said March was a much stronger month than the beginning of the quarter. And that's why we grew share at the 70% plus of the US business. Grew and held share at 70% plus.

OPERATOR: Nik Modi, UBS.

NIK MODI, ANALYST, UBS: Yes, just quickly on all the innovation. Curious on how you guys are thinking about the SKU complexity across the business, especially at a time where you are trying to also reduce the cost structure. If you can provide any thoughts on that? And just a quick housekeeping. Can you talk a little bit about the healthcare business and what was driving such strong growth? Was it just the flu season or is there something else going on there? Thanks.

BOB MCDONALD: Well in terms of innovation and SKU proliferation, our point of view is one where we work with customers and create retailers and create joint value creation. We have score cards that we work with customers and part of that is working efficient assortment, where we don't bring an innovation to retailers that we don't think will command or attract a large number of consumers. And while we go in with that new innovation and expect or try to sell a certain amount of shelf space, at the same time we help retailers pull out, eliminate some of the innovations that other competitors or even we have launched that may not have worked. So we try to keep the SKU proliferation under control. I think I would point to our manufacturing productivity.

Our manufacturing productivity and our work on inventory, which is turning in great cash results, wouldn't be where it is if there was evidence that we were proliferating SKUs. At the same time I'd encourage you to look at some of the new items that were launched by some of our competitors that haven't done well. And we'll be working with retailers to try to get the shelf space back so the retailers can make money off that shelf space.

JON MOELLER: In terms of healthcare, there are really three drivers, Chris. One you rightly cite which is the strong cold flu season. The second is the expansion of the Vicks lineup in Eastern Europe that we've talked about before. And the third is a real strong quarter on the P&G [Tavla] business as we continue to drive the products of that joint venture. So those are the three main drivers of our healthcare progress.

BOB MCDONALD: Did we mention ZzzQuil? I would also mention the launch of ZzzQuil, which is multiples beyond our expectation and success. It's already the number one branded sleep aid. It's expanded the category. ZzzQuil is off to a tremendous start. And I would recommend it for all of you who may suffer jet lag if you travel internationally.

OPERATOR: Ali Dibadj, Sanford Bernstein.

ALI DIBADJ, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: Hey guys. I think, like a lot of other people on the call, I'm kind of struggling with the dichotomy between the positive tone of your press release, the confidence you are clearly exuding on this call, all the very, very enticing innovations that are out there versus essentially, I think, disappointing top line results, at least from investor's analyst end. I think you're seeing that in the stock reaction, probably. So, a few things. One is how is your share gain related to the slowdown in the market growth?

Two is, I guess if everything is going to plan why is it pretty impossible to get to the high end of your top line growth range for the year? And then three is -- you say there's more to come, and I'm trying to understand what -- are there bigger things you are expected to happen, whether it be an incremental reinvestment that you need to make, whether it be an acceleration to the [orc] chart changes, orc structure changes or incentive structure? What else can get us to feel better to tie in this dichotomy between your confidence and frankly somewhat disappointment among everybody on this call who has so far asked questions and certainly the market right now? Thanks.

BOB MCDONALD: Our top line growth delivery was within our guidance range, Ali. I think maybe part of the dislocation that you are perceiving between our confidence and your lack of confidence may be just in time sequence. The innovations we are talking about, as I responded to Chris's question, are all future-oriented and future-related and you're looking at past results. I think that we're going to continue to do what we're doing. We're going to continue to invest in innovation, we're going to continue to bring out a large number of innovations and we're going to continue to fuel that with productivity improvement and with investments in innovation.

I'm really excited about the work that we've done around productivity, both in the manufacturing area where we've offset the head count that we need to run 20 new factories. But also in the area of non-manufacturing where we're ahead of target. And the work that we've done already in the productivity area with Jorge Uribe's team and his leadership is suggesting that we can get to the 2% to 4% reduction which, by the time we get to 2016 could have us down 16% to 22% of enrollment. And I think that's terrific progress and it gives us a lot of confidence that we'll have the fuel to then spend behind innovation and get those sequential market share growth goals that we talked about without regard to choppiness of the global economy.

OPERATOR: Joe Altobello, Oppenheimer.

JOE ALTOBELLO, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER & CO.: Thanks, good morning guys. I guess since you just mentioned choppiness again, Bob, I'll start there. You guys have talked about that a lot this morning. We've heard that from other companies as well. Could you give us a little more color, or perhaps anecdotes in terms of what you're seeing from your customers, where they're buying, what they're buying, how often they're buying, how that's changed in the quarter perhaps. And then secondly, the market share trends obviously are improving but I think your overall market shares are still down year-over-year. So when would you guys expect to see those overall market shares start to grow overall? Thanks.

BOB MCDONALD: Let me deal with the year-over-year first. The year-over-year varies by category by country. For example, year-over-year now in North America, we're obviously seeing growth because we've got 70% plus of the business holding or growing share. So obviously with the sequential improvement over time with 50% plus now holding or growing share globally, we're going to expect to see year-over-year growth sequentially in the coming quarters. Relative to the choppiness, the economy -- it's more of an evolution I think than a cathartic revolution. What we're seeing is obviously retailers concerned about their level of inventory and their cash investment. We see them worrying about attracting traffic to their stores.

But we don't see extraordinary levels of promotion like we may have in 2009, 2010. But there are times where there are extraordinary levels of promotion. For example when we launched Vidal Sassoon and Pantene Expert and one of our competitors launched a new brand the third competitor who did not have a very strong innovation program this quarter put instantly redeemable coupons on all of their hair care offerings in every store. So you do see choppiness in that regard. The promotion spending when you don't have innovation. But the rest I would see as evolutionary, but an improvement in the way retailers are operating.

Another point that you see is the move to online or e-commerce. We have been working hard to understand what our market share is in e-commerce. We've been putting a lot of resources against it. I just gave you the US as an example. If you take our US market share our e-commerce digital market share, both through bricks and mortar and true digital players, is 20 points higher than it is through regular retail. And this is a fast-growing channel. So that may lead to also some of the choppiness that you may see because most of that sale is not transparent to the marketplace.

JON MOELLER: If we're going to continue to operate in an environment that is a little bit choppy, I think we are extraordinarily well-positioned from the standpoint of both the productivity program and the innovation program, which are the antidotes to this kind of market environment.

OPERATOR: Connie Maneaty, BMO Capital Markets.

CONNIE MANEATY, ANALYST, BMO CAPITAL MARKETS: Good morning. Another question on market shares. If US shares are growing in 65% to 70% of our businesses and your shares are growing in 70% -- 75% of businesses in China, but your worldwide shares are growing in -- are growing 50% worldwide, in which international markets are you losing share and why and when would you expect a turn?

BOB MCDONALD: Connie, first of all we've said that holding and growing share, not just growing. And that's a significant difference. Places we are losing market share -- frankly we've talked about the work we're doing on skin care globally. And trying to improve our beauty business. That's a major focus for us. Russia laundry -- we were losing some share and we've put a plan in place to regain share. So we have pockets like that around the world but, believe me, we are all focused on turning those shares around and doing it through innovation.

OPERATOR: Javier Escalante, Consumer Edge Research.

JAVIER ESCALANTE, ANALYST, CONSUMER EDGE RESEARCH: Good morning everyone. I would like to come back to beauty and the choppiness and, again, the marketing spending and the innovation that you are talking about. If you step back, you did a major launch -- major launches in the US, in Olay, in hair care, in makeup with Cover Girl. And yet we don't see any traction from it. So I understand that L'Oreal did a competitive launch, but under the same choppiness they grew 5.5% in the quarter and your GBU contracted minus 1%. So what I'm hearing is doing the same thing is spending more on doing the same innovation and blaming competitive activity in terms of the lack of traction but shouldn't you be thinking about doing things differently so that there is more effectiveness in the A&P spending and on innovation? Thank you.

BOB MCDONALD: Javier, we understand, we see it a little bit differently than you do. We launched these items recently. They're making sequential progress. We talked about Vidal Sassoon already approaching a 2 value share, which is double our pre-launch estimates at this point in time. These things are making progress period-to-period. Pantene Expert, for example, has a higher repurchase rate than a competitor's new brand. So we're seeing progress period-to-period and we think that will be reflected in the market share results and the top line growth sequentially, as we've said.

OPERATOR: Jason Gere, RBC Capital Markets.

JASON GERE, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Thanks. Good morning. I'm not going to use the word complexity because I think it's been overused a little bit. But I guess I'm just trying to figure out when you're looking at all the innovation that you are bringing out and the top line growth that's coming through, can you talk about some of what I would consider the non-core businesses in the portfolio? Obviously we know it's [40 2010] the areas that you are focusing on and where you're playing to win, but it seems like there is some volatility with some of these non-core businesses that you guys are not considering disposing at times. I'm just wondering when you see the results that are coming through and the great innovation that you're getting in some of the -- what I would consider more core businesses, does that change your outlook in terms of keeping other brands in the portfolio? Or, I think one of the last questions was on the SKU complexity, kind of eliminating that so you can put up healthier numbers and seeing the results of better innovation in some of the core brands? Thanks.

BOB MCDONALD: Jason, as you know we have quite a robust process for weeding and feeding our portfolio. And we have divested businesses in the past. We are happy with our portfolio that we have today and any item in our portfolio. There is an expectation that we innovate. Jon went through the innovation, for example, that we have in pet care coming to market, Good For You and the new Woof item.

We have innovation in Duracell, another category that you've asked us about in the past. In Duralock with a 10-year guarantee, on Powermat. So we expect to innovate in every one of our businesses. There may be a different cycle of innovation and need for that, but we expect to innovate in every one of our businesses and that's the primary way that we attract consumers and grow our business.

OPERATOR: Bill Chappell, SunTrust.

BILL CHAPPELL, ANALYST, SUNTRUST: Good morning. Just wanted to dig back into the Pods in the US. And certainly, $0.5 billion in sales and improving market share is great, but maybe you could give us some color of after being out in the market for a year, is a six household penetration where you were expected, better, worse? And can you get to 10 in the near-term and do you need to have Gain Pods or something else to really kind of jumpstart the category even further? Thanks.

BOB MCDONALD: Thank you, Bill. With a technology like Tide Pods we usually start with the leading brand and then we expand that technology across countries and across brands. What we've seen with Pods is that it's a preferred form of laundry detergent and people who move from a powder to a liquid historically now move from a liquid to a Pod and they typically don't go backwards. Once you start using a Pod you don't go back to a liquid. Once you've moved to a liquid you don't go back to a powder. And that just is the generational shift in the laundry category. I think one of the things that's been interesting about Pods is it's attracted users, even though it has a higher cost per load, it's attracted users across the entire spectrum of users -- across the entire spectrum of income.

So there are many people who are forced to over dose their laundry detergent today because they aren't getting satisfactory cleaning and they buy a low-priced brand. That brand doesn't work, it has a low level of actives, has a lot of water, and so they over dose. And they move to this form, which cleans better, and they find it more economical, even though it has a higher cost per use. The reason the cost per use is higher is you are not paying for water. You're paying for active ingredients. So I think it's surprised us a little bit to see where the source of volume has come from.

If you look at the track of what percent of the business this has become we've said that we think we will get to 30% eventually because of what we've seen in dish washing over time and automatic dish washing and we have no data to refute that. It's going to be an evolution over time. But as we expand the form around the world, you'll see a higher proportion of our laundry business going to Pods and eventually I think we'll get near the 30% number that dish washing has.

JON MOELLER: And don't forget that we were constrained in terms of supply until just recently so we'll be increasing the levels of marketing, of in-store support. So to your point of driving higher household penetration, that's still ahead of us.

OPERATOR: Mark Astrachan, Stifel Nicolaus.

MARK ASTRACHAN, ANALYST, STIFEL NICOLAUS: Thanks and good morning everybody. I wanted to go back to the under-performance in beauty and try to think about it a little bit differently. What do you think has led to some of the under-performance? And when do you think the innovation-based strategy potentially needs to shift or how do you sort of evaluate the efficacy of what you're doing? And then sort of related to that, how do you think about supplementing the internal innovation with acquisitions externally? And sort of related to that, how do you think, Jon, about the optimal leverage structure on an overall basis for the business? And does the cost savings program limit the acquisition appetite overall?

BOB MCDONALD: Well we've been working to strengthen the organization and strengthen the business now for some time. We are starting to see progress, as we reported in this quarter. We've launched a number of new innovations. And the innovation program looks even stronger in the future. We have more what we call bigger change innovations coming in the future and we are excited about that. So I expect, as I've said, I expect the performance of the beauty organization to improve quarter-to-quarter and sequentially. And we're going to continue to invest in it, both in terms of innovation and in terms of marketing.

JON MOELLER: We've said before that we're interested -- we continue to be interested in fill-in acquisitions, that would be true in beauty as well. I don't think there's anything that holds us back from that at this point except asset availability and asset attractiveness. But that's something we will continue to look at. There's really no constraint within either our leverage targets or our earnings projections to that activity should something attractive present itself.

OPERATOR: Alice Longley, Buckingham Research.

ALICE LONGLEY, ANALYST, BUCKINGHAM RESEARCH: Hi, good morning. I have a housekeeping question and then my real question. My first is could you just tell us what your category growth rate was by region, emerging markets US and Europe? And then my real question is on Tide in the US. I know it's not suffering the price reversal in powders that some of your others are. Could you tell us how much Tide as a brand overall was up or down in the quarter if you include powders, liquids and Pods together? Thanks.

JON MOELLER: Let me take the first one, Alice. In terms of the market growth rates, developed markets in our categories grew about 1 point. Developing markets were up about 7 points, leaving us with a global total of about 3.5 points, which compares to 4 points in the prior quarter. Within that you asked about the US. The US was up about 2.5 points, with Europe down and Japan essentially flat.

ALICE LONGLEY: And Tide?

JOHN CHEVALIER, DIRECTOR, IR, PROCTER & GAMBLE CO: Hi Alice, John Chevalier. Tide was down in the quarter from a shipment standpoint. But recall that this is the quarter that we're comping the Pods launch. So the underlying trends again, from a market share standpoint, are very strong. Shipments are down year-over-year only because of the pipeline fill.

OPERATOR: Joe Lackey, Wells Fargo Securities.

JOE LACKEY, ANALYST, WELLS FARGO SECURITIES: Thank you. I was wondering if you could outline your opportunities and efforts you are making on working capital, specifically inventory, I think you mentioned that briefly, but also payables and receivables? Remind me if you've quantified how much opportunity you see there and how you plan to use that cash, either reinvest in your business or potentially return additional cash to shareholders?

JON MOELLER: So we are actively working on inventory days on hand. And our goal is to be able to reduce working capital by sufficient levels, to be able to offset the increase in capital spending behind the developing market expansion, such that we continue to deliver 90% free cash flow productivity, which gives us ample cash to return to shareholders. And that's exactly what we're doing now. We're on target in terms of a pretty significant reduction in inventory days on hand this year. We're targeting again the same next year. And I'll let Teri briefly talk about what we're doing on payables.

TERI LIST-STOLL, SVP & TREASURER, PROCTER & GAMBLE CO: Yes. So there's been some press recently about a new program that we've introduced with suppliers called supply chain finance. Well we're partnering with some of our world-class banking partners to be able to present what we think is a win-win solution to suppliers. As part of that we'll be extending our payment terms, which obviously frees up cash for us, so we're offering lower cash financing and actually earlier access to cash to our suppliers as part of that program. So that's something that we think over time, and we're implementing it over time so it's not disruptive to suppliers, that will free up a tremendous amount of cash starting next year and then over the next two to three years.

OPERATOR: Michael Steib, Credit Suisse.

MICHAEL STEIB, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Good morning. You made several references towards investing behind marketing spending. Could you be a bit more specific please? What does that mean? Does that mean that ad spend, for example, is up sequentially in absolute terms and as a percentage of sales?

BOB MCDONALD: Yes. It also means we are investing in things like sampling, door-to-door sampling, selling. Things that will generate trial and awareness of the new innovations.

OPERATOR: Linda Bolton-Weiser, B. Riley Caris & Company.

LINDA BOLTON-WEISER, ANALYST, B. RILEY CARIS & COMPANY: Hi. My question is on cash flow. You had 20% year-over-year growth in operating cash flow in the first half of the fiscal year and it was only up slightly in the third quarter. So is there -- is your working capital performance actually deteriorating a little bit or is there some other strange comparisons that happened in the quarter? And also it looked like in the quarter you paid down -- reduced debt by about $800 million or so. Is there any reason why you can't just maintain the debt that you added to the balance sheet in the first half and use -- instead of paying down debt in the second half just do more share repurchase?

Would that put you over -- would that not allow you to maintain your credit ratings as you would like? Or what's the reason that you can't just maintain that a little bit additional leverage and repurchase shares? Because other companies have levered up a little bit here and are repurchasing more stock. So can you just kind of explain that? Thanks a lot.

JON MOELLER: Sure. Well, stepping way back again -- 10 years, $98 billion of cash returned to shareholders, that's clearly a focus area. Generated $3 billion of cash in the quarter, so a strong quarter of cash flow. The IR team can take you through the line item comparatives versus the base period. We have been using that increasing cash flow to increase our share repurchase. You may recall when we first started talking about share repurchase for the year it was $4 billion to 6 billion.

We increased that range based on cash over delivery to $5 billion to $6 billion. Last quarter -- this quarter we increased the range again to $6 billion based on cash over delivery. So we're very much focused on that objective.

BOB MCDONALD: And we increased the dividend 7% the same time, as you know.

OPERATOR: Caroline Levy, CLSA.

CAROLINE LEVY, ANALYST, CLSA: Good morning. Just wondering, if you look at your base businesses, if maybe where a lot of the problems arising you launch new products and hair care, but the base Pantene must be where the weakness is, I'm assuming similar with liquid Tide and the Olay products. So is there something -- with all the innovation that you talk about and do is there some way one can address the base business to make sure that there isn't that kind of erosion. That's my first question. And I was also wondering if you could just talk about your diapers share in the top few markets there. I'm not sure I caught what trends are like in diapers anywhere in your big markets.

BOB MCDONALD: Caroline, we are very focused on growing the base business. Without growing the base business there is no growth. And I think evidence of that is the fact that we're holding or growing share in 70% of the US business in the month of March. The innovations are helping, but you couldn't do that without growing the base business. And so we evaluate people on growing the base business.

It's important to us and we know we can't grow without growing the base business. That's particularly true in developed markets like the United States, but it's also true in developing markets. So we're focused on that and that is why market share is such an important measure for us.

OPERATOR: At this time we have no other questions in the queue. Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference. Thank you for your participation and you may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
prgml : The Procter & Gamble Company
   IN
i258 : Cosmetics/Toiletries | icnp : Consumer Goods | ipcare : Personal Care Products/Appliances
   NS
c151 : Earnings | cgvfil : Government Filings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020130501e94o001md
  


 HD
 Q2  2013 The  Procter  & Gamble Company Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
10,383 words
   PD
25 January 2013
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©013 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Welcome to Procter & Gamble's quarter-end conference call. Today's discussion will include a number of forward-looking statements. If you will refer to P&G's most recent 10-K, 10-Q, and 8-K reports, you will see a discussion of factors that could cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from these projections. As required by Regulation G, P&G needs to make you aware that, during the call, the Company will make a number of references to non-GAAP and other financial measures. Management believes these measures provide investors valuable information on the underlying growth trends of the business.

   TD
Organic refers to reported results, excluding the impacts of acquisitions and divestitures, and foreign exchange, where applicable. Free cash flow represents operating cash flow, less capital expenditures. Free cash flow productivity is the ratio of free cash flow to net earnings. Any measure described as core refers to the equivalent GAAP measure, adjusted for certain items. P&G has posted on its website, www.PG.com, a full reconciliation of non-GAAP and other financial measures. Now, I will turn the call over to P&G's Chief Financial Officer, Jon Moeller.

JON MOELLER, CFO, THE PROCTER & GAMBLE COMPANY: Thanks. Good morning, everyone. I'm here this morning with Bob McDonald and Teri List-Stoll. The second-quarter results we released this morning were good, at the high end of our initial forecast on the top line, and well ahead of the forecast on operating profit, earnings per share, and cash flow. These better-than-expected results will enable us to raise our sales, earnings per share, and share repurchase outlook for the fiscal year, while -- and this is important -- simultaneously strengthening our innovation and marketing plans in the back half.

Organic sales grew a strong 3%, which was as at the high end of our 1% to 3% guidance range. Organic volume grew 2 points, and pricing added 2 points to organic sales growth. Product and geographic mix reduced sales by a point. Organic sales growth was broad-based, with all segments up 2% or more for the quarter. Foreign exchange impact lowered sales growth by 1 point, leaving all-in sales up 2%, a point above the high end of the guidance range. Global market share trends have continued to improve. We held or grew market share in businesses representing nearly 50% of sales in the December quarter, up from 45% of sales in the September quarter, and 30% in the June quarter. We have more work to do, but the underlying trends are improving.

Moving to the bottom line, all-in earnings per share were $1.39, ahead of our guidance range of $1.18 to $1.25 per share. All-in earnings include $0.21 of non-core holding gains from the purchase of the balance of our Baby Care and Feminine Care joint venture in Iberia, which we completed in October, and $0.05 of non-core restructuring investments to drive productivity improvement. Core earnings per share were $1.22, up 12% versus the prior year, much stronger than we had initially forecast. The better-than-expected earnings were driven by top-of-range sales growth, strong productivity savings, and a small pickup from a higher-than-expected gain on the divestiture of our Western European bleach business.

Core operating profit margin grew 110 basis points, including 160 basis points of productivity improvements and cost savings. Core gross margin also improved 110 basis points. Cost savings and productivity helped gross margin by 100 basis points, and pricing improved gross margin by roughly 90 basis points. These benefits were partially offset by 100-basis-point negative impact from a combination of product and geographic mix. Commodity costs were essentially neutral to gross margin for the quarter. Core SG&A costs were in line with the prior year as a percentage of sales.

Overhead cost savings of approximately 60 basis points were offset by increased plans and benefits costs, and modestly higher marketing spending. The core tax rate was 24.4%, slightly below the prior-year level. That impact on the year-to-year change in the tax rate was about $0.01 on the quarter. On an all-in basis, including restructuring costs, gross margin improved 80 basis points and SG&A costs were in line with the prior year as a percentage of sales. All-in operating profit margin improved by 800 basis points, driven by non-core charges taken in the base period. We generated $3.1 billion in free cash flow in the quarter, which was also ahead of our initial forecast. We expect to deliver around 90% cash flow productivity for the year.

During the quarter, we returned $3 billion of cash to shareholders, $1.6 billion in dividends, and $1.4 billion in share repurchase. During the first half of the fiscal year, we've returned $7.2 billion to shareholders, $3.2 billion in dividends, and $4 billion in share repurchase. These second-quarter results, combined with those of the first quarter, enable us to raise our outlook on the top line, bottom line, and on share repurchase while simultaneously strengthening plans. We're continuing to make good progress on the productivity plan we outlined at the Cagney conference last February, and on the growth priorities we discussed at the Citi conference last May. Our priorities continue to be -- maintaining strong developing market momentum; strengthening our core developed market business; building a strong innovation pipeline; and aggressively driving cost savings and productivity improvements. We maintained growth momentum in the developing markets in the December quarter, with organic sales up 7%, BRIC markets were up 11%, led by Brazil and India, with organic sales growth of over 20%.

An important component of our developing market plans is continued expansion of our portfolio. The globalization of our Oral Care portfolio has been one part of this. We've entered the Oral Care category in 34 countries over the last four years. Every market is delivering at or above our going-in expectations for both sales and market share. Progress in some of the early expansion markets continues to be very strong.

In Brazil, Oral Care shipments were up more than 50% in the December quarter, driven by the launch of 3D White toothpaste, Whitestrips, and the benefit of full national distribution. We're growing in all channels and across all forums in the Oral Care category in Brazil. Oral-B toothpaste share is now fast approaching 9% on a national basis, up nearly 3 points versus year ago. Additional Oral Care geographic expansions are planned this calendar year, including a launch in Australia in a few weeks.

Another example is Gillette Guard, our breakthrough value tier-system razor, which has been a big success in India. We expanded Guard to Egypt last quarter, and we're testing it in other developing markets where double-edge blades are still the predominant shaving tool. We're continuing to build scale in developing markets, which is enabling solid profit growth. We're localizing production, which lowers supply chain costs, and we're improving the productivity of our SG&A spending as these businesses grow. These are two important drivers of the profit improvement we expect to deliver in our top 10 developing markets this year. In aggregate, we expect after-tax profit in these 10 markets to increase by about 35% versus last year, including negative foreign exchange impacts, and around 50% on a local currency basis. We're doing all of this while increasing marketing spending and accelerating the pace of innovation.

While we're being appropriately [choiceful], we are in no way pulling back in developing markets. To the contrary, we're moving strongly forward. At the same time, we're strengthening our core developed markets business. We're ensuring that we have sufficient plans to achieve our objectives in the 40 largest category-country combinations, most of which are in developed markets. These businesses account for about 50% of Company sales, and 70% of operating profit.

The interventions we made during the last calendar year in four core US categories are continuing to drive strong results. In US laundry detergents, value share has been progressively improving, following the consumer value corrections on the Gain brand and the growth of Tide PODS. Value share for US detergents are up sequentially on a past 12-, 6-, 3-, and 1-month basis. Tide share is in the high 30s, up 1.5 points versus prior year, and Gain value share is back to 15% for the first time in over a year.

Market share results in US auto dishwashing detergents have also improved sequentially. Past 3-month Cascade value share is now at 60%, up 1.5 points versus prior year. Gillette share is up nearly 2 points, at 74% in the US male blades and razors category. The Fusion franchise is up more than 1 point at 37.5% and Mach3 is in line with prior year, at about 21%. In US Oral Care, Crest toothpaste market-leading value share is above 36%, in line with prior year levels.

Across the US business, we held or built share in businesses representing nearly 60% of sales. We've seen strong sequential improvement in the share trend across our top 20 brands in the US. On a past12-month basis, only 25% of the top 20 brands were holding or growing share. That figure is up to 60% on a past 3-month basis and 65% for the most recent period in the United States. January marks the first month of full plan deployment, and innovation strengthens as the year progresses, so we expect further improvement in market share results in the back half of the fiscal year.

Innovation underpins both developed and developing market efforts, as does our work to drive greater productivity in everything we do. On the point of innovation, Tide PODS have reached a 6% value share in less than a year. We expect PODS will generate about $0.5 billion of sales this fiscal year on one brand in one country. Tide PODS deliver as much cleaning power as the six next leading competitive unit dose products combined, a big reason we currently hold a 75% share of the unit dose form. We've now established PODS capacity in Europe and will begin the roll-out of Ariel pods in April. Additional markets and brands will follow.

We've driven the growth in a new category with Downy Unstopables in-wash scent boosters. Unstopables keep clothes fresh for up to 12 weeks, until you wear them. Unstopables consumption is nearly twice as high as we had initially expected. We launched a new spring scent earlier this month to further expand the Unstopables lineup. We're marketing this innovation in only three countries so far -- the US, Canada and Japan. Our air care business just introduced new Febreze Stick & Refresh, which combines Febreze's unique slow-release scent technology with a no-residue adhesive from our connect and develop innovation partner, 3M. Febreze Stick & Refresh sticks to any surface, and works anywhere in your home to keep it fresh and odor-free without plugs or batteries.

The surface care category launched a Swiffer with Gain scent line extension to provide consumers with the fresh scent of Gain as they clean with Swiffer Dusters, WetJet, and Sweepers. Swiffer is a good example of the benefits of scale and innovation, coupling our substrate and perfume expertise with a strong brand equity from our laundry category to obsolete mops, feather dusters, and rags. Cascade Platinum launched earlier this month. This follows the successful launch of Fairy Platinum in Western Europe earlier this year. Cascade and Fairy Platinum are designed to deliver powerful cleaning for dishes, while also providing film protection to help maintain the sparkling look of dishwasher interiors. Next month we have three new things to communicate on Bounty. On the main Bounty lineup, we'll be announcing towels that are two times more absorbent than the next leading national brand. We're upgrading Bounty Basic, with towels that are 50% stronger than the leading bargain brand, and we're launching a new line called Bounty DuraTowel, letting consumers ditch their dishcloth and switch to Bounty DuraTowel, which is three times cleaner than their dirty dish cloth.

Our entry into the sleep aids category continues to go very well. ZzzQuil is a non-habit-forming sleep aid that is not for colds, not for pain, just for sleep. ZzzQuil has grown to nearly 20% value share in the US sleep aids category, making it the number-one-branded sleep aid in terms of both units and value in the US. We began expanding ZzzQuil into Canada earlier this month. Expansion of Vicks Cough & Cold products in Russia, Poland, Hungary and the Czech Republic is also progressing well. The launch features the Vicks Nature Fusion line that combines effective medicine with the soothing experience of natural remedies. Sales in the expansion markets are ahead of initial expectations.

Oral Care launched its Oral-B Deep Sweep Power Brush two weeks ago. Deep Sweep cleans like a power brush and moves like a manual brush to remove more than two times the plaque of a regular manual toothbrush. 3D White toothpaste has now delivered market share growth in the US every month since its introduction over 2.5 years ago. We're expanding the 3D White line, which includes toothpaste, brush, rinse, floss, and Whitestrips, around the world to continue building out our full Oral Care portfolio. Over the last nine months, we launched 3D White products in the UK, Germany, Italy, Belgium, the Netherlands, Luxembourg, Switzerland, Austria, China, Brazil, and Mexico. 3D White is driving strong share growth in Mexico and the UK. Mexico reached an all-time high toothpaste value share of over 14% for the quarter, up nearly 4 points versus the prior year. In the UK, the combination of 3D White, Oral-B Complete, and Oral-B Pro-Expert drove value share to over 10%, up nearly 3 points versus the prior year.

Salon hair care's Illumina color from Wella Professional launched in Western Europe in July, and in North America in December. Illumina leverages a new patented MicroLight technology, and is Wella's biggest innovation in the last 20 years. With Wella, consumers experience hair that appears lit from within. This breakthrough innovation will be launching in Latin America and Australia/New Zealand in March.

US skin care began shipping Olay Total Effects CC, or Color Correction, Cream in December. Total Effects CC Cream fights the seven signs of aging to correct fine lines, wrinkles, and age spots, and covers to provide a flawlessly beautiful complexion. This month, they also introduced a new mid-tier skin care boutique called Olay Fresh Effects, aimed at younger consumers with a collection of cleansers and moisturizers that deep clean and hydrate to keep you looking beautifully fresh and vibrant. We've also begun a revitalization of Olay Regenerist, with the launch of new Olay Micro-Sculpting Cream. The reformulation includes two new anti-aging ingredients to penetrate quickly and regenerate surface cells to reveal younger-looking skin fast. Visible wrinkle reduction starts in just one day, and the look of 10 years of wrinkles can be reduced in just four weeks.

The Cover Girl brand introduced two exciting innovations during the last quarter. The new Clump Crusher Mascara by LashBlast provides 200% more volume with zero clumps. Cover Girl mascara sales growth has accelerated by 9 points since the Clump Crusher launch. Also, Cover Girl has entered the nail segment, with a new Outlast Stay Brilliant Nail Gloss. This line has 45 shades that provide high-gloss color that can last as long as a week, without the need for a top coat. Initial results for Cover Girl nails are very strong. At one leading drug customer, sales have exceeded market-leader Maybelline's, after just six weeks on market.

We're currently launching a hair care innovation bundle that spans the vertical portfolio. We recently launched Pantene Expert Collection, which includes two super premium lines, Age Defy and Advanced Plus Keratin Repair, priced 200% to 250% above the base Pantene line. Age Defy leverages a new formula based on our hair biology program, yielding hair that acts 10 years younger, by thickening hair as if it had 6,500 new strands. The Pantene Advanced Plus Keratin Repair formula leverages a breakthrough in new conditioner technology to repair two years of hair damage in two minutes. We're expanding Pantene Expert Collection to Latin America later this quarter.

We're also launching Vidal Sassoon Pro Series in the US. The complete hair care line, offering shampoo, conditioner, styling, and permanent color, to give consumers salon genius, brilliantly priced. Vidal Sassoon Pro Series is priced at a 50 to 75 index to the base Pantene shampoos and conditioners, providing us with a very strong brand in the salon affordable segment, with a real salon heritage. We're bringing a bundle of Gillette innovations to market across Fusion and Mach3 blades and razors, as well as shave preps, which is focused on sensitive skin. 70% of men believe they have sensitive skin, and these innovations leverage the fact that our ProGlide products have been recommended by dermatologists in the US as the best shave for sensitive skin.

Like innovation, productivity also underpins all of our developed and developing market efforts. We're making strong progress against our commitments, but won't stop there. The overhead reduction plan we announced last February called for a reduction in non-manufacturing staffing of 10%, or roughly 5,700 roles by the end of this fiscal year. As of the end of December, we've reduced 5,500 roles, more than 95% of our target reduction. It's likely that we'll reach our initial staffing objectives four to five months ahead of schedule, and, as we announced at our Analyst Day meeting in November, we're committed to do more. Our new objective is to further reduce -- and this is what we introduced at Analyst Day in November, the further reduction of non-manufacturing enrollment by an additional 2% to 4% per year from fiscal year 2014 through 2016. This will roughly double the amount of direct savings we deliver in core SG&A, reducing our reliance on top-line growth for leverage-driven savings. Any additional enrollment progress we make in fiscal 2013 beyond our initial target will give us a head start on the fiscal 2014 to 2016 enrollment objectives.

We have solid plans in place to deliver $1.2 billion in savings this fiscal year in cost of goods sold, so I have established a stretch target beyond this of $1.4 billion. Our efforts in this area include a 5% net productivity increase across our manufacturing operations, even as we add new manufacturing capacity and enrollment in developing markets. For the first half of the year we're tracking well ahead of target, at about 6.5% manufacturing productivity improvement. We're achieving efficiencies in marketing spend, particularly on non-media expenditures, and are reinvesting these savings in strengthened plans. As we embrace our cost-savings work, we must, and will, keep our eye on the overriding objective of shareholder value creation, with growth being an important part of this.

At the end of last fiscal year, our core operating profit margin was nearly 19%, which compares to a simple average of 15 competitors of about 15.9%. Our operating margin is higher than 12 of the 15. This means we're effectively more leveraged to growth than most of our competitors, and that there is significant value creation to be delivered through growth. In our endeavor to cut costs, we will not compromise our growth prospects or capabilities. We're building and executing our strategy with the objective of getting the savings and growth balance right.

Now, let's turn to our updated outlook for fiscal 2013 and the January-March quarter. Starting with the fiscal year, we're increasing organic sales growth guidance to a range of 3% to 4%, compared to our prior range of 2% to 4%. The new range is comprised of volume growth of 2% to 3%, pricing contribution of about 2%, and negative mix of around 1%. We now expect all-in sales growth of 1% to 2%. This includes a foreign exchange headwind of about 2 points, based on mid-January spot rates.

We're raising our outlook for core earnings per share growth to a range of 3% to 6%, from a previous range of down 1% to up 4%. This guidance includes earnings per share headwinds from items such as higher costs for pensions and employee benefit plans, and the impact of mandated price reductions in Venezuela. Combined, these headwinds are reducing our core earnings per share growth rate by about 3 percentage points. Adjusting for these, our core earnings per share growth would be 6% to 9% for the year. The new earnings outlook equates to a core earnings per share range of $3.97 to $4.07, which compares to our previous guidance range of $3.80 to $4 per share.

There are two items we called out as potential risks last quarter, which have largely been resolved with no material impact to earnings. We have managed through the absorbent gelling material supply issue for our diaper business, with only minor disruption and added cost. And the US corporate tax extenders that we had assumed in our forecast have now been enacted into law. There continue to be two notable earnings risks that are not included in our guidance. Our forecast is based on mid-January foreign exchange spot rates. A large devaluation of an important currency, such as the Venezuelan bolivar, would likely reduce our earnings outlook. Our guidance also assumes current market growth rates continue for the balance of this fiscal year, and are not impacted by the payroll tax increase in the US, dynamics associated with the US debt ceiling debate, or by worsening conditions in Europe.

We're increasing the all-in earnings per share range to $4.04 to $4.14, which compares to our prior range of $3.78 to $4.02 per share. The increase is largely due to the improvement in our core earnings per share expectations. In addition, the $0.21 non-core holding gain resulting from our purchase of the balance of our Baby Care and Feminine Care joint venture in Iberia is roughly $0.04 per share higher than anticipated in our last guidance. We've updated our estimates for non-core restructuring investments, which we now expect to be approximately $0.15 per share for the fiscal year. This compares to our previous estimate of $0.15 to $0.19 per share. The difference is driven by a timing shift for asset disposals, and somewhat lower costs for organizational productivity improvements.

We continue to expect free cash flow productivity of about 90% of net earnings for the year. We now expect capital spending to be around 5% of sales for the year, down from our prior estimate of 5.5%. This reduction is mainly due to capital efficiency and manufacturing productivity improvements, not a reduction in project scope. We expect to continue our 122-year track record of dividend payments, and our 56-year track record of dividend increases. The exact amount of the increase is subject to Board approval, and will be determined by the Board during the April Board meeting. In addition, we will repurchase $5 billion to $6 billion of stock this fiscal year.

Based on current cash projections, we expect to be towards the high end of this range. This is improved from the $4 billion to $6 billion outlook we discussed at the analyst meeting in November. Combined, we expect to return $11 billion to $12 billion of cash to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases in fiscal 2013. This represents a cash return in the range of 5.8% to 6.3% on our market cap of about $190 billion. For the January to March quarter, we're estimating organic sales growth in the range of 3% to 4%. At the low end of 3%, this range represents growth in line with what we delivered for the December quarter. At the high end of 4%, this range represents another quarter of sequential improvement.

Foreign exchange is expected to be roughly neutral to sales growth, which leads to all-in sales growth guidance equal to the organic range of 3% to 4%. On the bottom line, we expect March quarter core earnings per share in the range of $0.91 to $0.97, or down 3% to up 3%, compared to prior-year core earnings per share of $0.94. We expect the effective tax rate for the March quarter to be about 1 point lower than last year, due to the true-up needed to reflect the US corporate tax law changes made in early January. For the fiscal year, we now expect the tax rate on core earnings to be around the prior-year level of 24.2%. On an all-in basis, we estimate earnings per share in the range of $0.90 to $0.96. This includes non-core restructuring charges of approximately $0.01 a share.

Our back half earnings per share guidance reflects the strong level of innovation activity going into the market, as well as focused reinvestments to maintain positive market share momentum. We expect the majority of these investments to be in marketing spending, with the balance focused on trial-building merchandising programs behind our new innovations. Comparing our first-half core earnings per share growth to the back half, we expect marketing investments to be an 8-to-9-point headwind, and tax to be a 2-to-3-point headwind. We're offsetting a portion of this with stronger top-line results and higher cost savings, but back-half core earnings per share growth will be several points below the first-half level.

In summary, our second-quarter results were on track with our plan on the top line and ahead of plan on operating profit, earnings per share, and cash. These results are enabling us to raise our sales, earnings, and share repurchase outlook for the fiscal year, while creating flexibility to further strengthen our plans in the second half. We remain confident that our focus areas -- maintaining momentum in developing markets, strengthening our core developed market business, building a strong innovation pipeline, and aggressively driving cost savings and productivity improvement -- are the right ones, and should generate over time the kind of earnings progress that will put us among the best in our industry. This, combined with strong cash flow, and a track record of capital returns to shareholders, should enable us to generate superior levels of shareholder return.

That concludes our prepared remarks. As a reminder, business segment information is provided in our press release, and will be available in slides which will be posted on our website, www.PG.com, following the call. Bob, Teri, and I will be happy to take your questions, and the IR team will be available after the call to provide additional perspective, as needed. With that, why don't we turn to questions?

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions)

Your first question comes from the line of Chris Ferrara of Bank of America. Please proceed.

CHRIS FERRARA, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: I guess the question is about the sales acceleration. So obviously, the sheer number of new products you are launching is much higher than what we've seen more recently, and that alone is going to drive better sales and market share, but I guess, can you give us a sense for why specifically you think that we're truly seeing the impact of higher quality innovation, that might lead to more sustainable sales growth, and why it's not just a result of just accelerated activity, that isn't necessarily sustainable? Thank you.

BOB MCDONALD, PRESIDENT, CEO & CHAIRMAN, THE PROCTER & GAMBLE COMPANY: Well, I think, Chris, Tide PODS is a great example of that. We introduced Tide PODS, which is a very discontinuous innovation. It's taken about 75% of the unit dose category in the United States. When we look at the consumers that it's gaining, it's gaining consumers from up and down the income spectrum. So even though it might be priced as a premium on a per-wash basis, you've got consumers who would buy lower-priced brands, trading up to that innovation. And as Jon said in his remarks, we expect by the end of the year, this will be a $0.5 billion business.

So you take $0.5 billion of new business on one innovation, one discontinuous innovation, one country, one brand, and as Jon said, we've already built the plant. We're expanding in Western Europe in the April through June quarter, so you can just imagine the sales and earnings potential of just that one discontinuous innovation as we expand it around the world. I think that's probably the best example.

JON ANDERSEN, ANALYST, WILLIAM BLAIR & COMPANY: You'll also remember, Chris, I think in our Analyst Day discussion, and Bruce Brown's presentation on innovation, we talked about an acceleration we're expecting, on what he we refer to as change innovation, which goes beyond commercial activity to truly change the consumer experience and the dynamics of the category. So we do think we're on a much stronger innovation footing as we go forward.

BOB MCDONALD: Of course, there are new categories we've entered, too. Jon mentioned ZzzQuil and sleep aids. We entered the auto care fragrance category, and as we also talked, we've bolstered our new category innovation as well, and we fully expect some of those innovations to come to market over the next year or so.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Dara Mohsenian of Morgan Stanley. Please proceed.

DARA MOHSENIAN, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: So the increase in the low end of the organic sales growth guidance for the full year, can you discuss where you've come in better than expected on a geographic basis, and what's driving that confidence in general? And then it looks like in emerging markets, the sales growth has slowed to more like the 7% range the last couple quarters, versus 10% over the past couple years. So is that more of just a category growth issue with macro slowing a bit, or is it a market share issue? Can you talk about if you expect emerging markets to reaccelerate in the back half of the year?

BOB MCDONALD: Relative to geography, Dara, we're really seeing growth, both in developed markets and developing markets. Recall, two of our four focus areas are maintaining our momentum in developing markets, and developing markets were up 7% this quarter. They were up 11% in the BRIC countries. And if you look at two major countries like China -- like India and Brazil, they were up 20%. So we're continuing to grow in developing markets. We're continuing to enter new category-country combinations, we'll enter 20 this year. We're continuing to build new factories in developing markets, roughly 20 that are on the drawing board now. So we're growing in developing markets. A lot of that is the expansion of categories like Jon talked, Oral Care. A lot of that also is growing market share.

We're also growing in developed markets. We're strengthening our developing market business. As Jon said, we've held or built share in businesses representing nearly 60% of the sales in the quarter in the US, and the interventions that we put in place like in US laundry, US auto dish, US male blades and razors, US Oral Care, as Jon covered, are helping us get our shares back to the point that we think they should be. So it's really broad-based. I think we said in our remarks, every segment of the business grew organic sales at least 2% or more.

JON MOELLER: I would just add one thing, then I'll answer the next part of your question. If you look at -- everything that Bob just said is spot-on. If you look at versus expectation, what part of the business is exceeding the most, encouragingly, that's North America. The reason that's encouraging is, one, that's one of our strategic priorities, and second, it's our most profitable business. We're very encouraged by that.

To the question of developing market growth rates for P&G, and what we should expect going forward, we're still expecting 8% or higher growth, so an acceleration of growth in the back half for the full fiscal year. Part of the 40/20/10 plans, as Bob mentioned, January's the first month when those are all fully in-market, and those have a big developing market component as well. So our plans will be strengthening in the back half, in developing markets and we expect to accelerate the rate of sales growth, even beyond what we've done so far.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Lauren Lieberman of Barclays. Please proceed.

LAUREN LIEBERMAN, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: So just following up on that actually, I was hoping you guys could comment a little bit on China, because I know last quarter was a little bit of a surprise to me that business had slowed, and there's been no mention of China at all in the call so far. Could you just give us an update? I know there was a lot, not supposed to accelerate until the second half, but I'd just love an update on progress there.

BOB MCDONALD: China organic sales grew high single-digits in the quarter and grew double-digits last fiscal year. Share is still down a little bit versus last year, but about 50% of the business is holding or growing share, so about 50%. And share trends are improving on more than two-thirds of the portfolio that we have in China. We've got a strong portfolio of innovation launching this fiscal year, and particularly here in the back half of the year, and we expect the combination of our interventions that we've already made and our innovation will return us to market share growth in China.

JON MOELLER: By the way, Lauren, it's nice to hear your voice, and we're glad to have you back.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of John Faucher of JPMorgan. Please proceed.

JOHN FAUCHER, ANALYST, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: As we look at the market share performance, we've obviously seen a ramp-up in US performance, maybe not gaining share, per se, but definitely losing a lot less share. Europe seems to be the big outlier there, where it doesn't look like your share performance has improved all that much. Can you talk about what's different about that market from a share perspective, I know it's growing more slowly. Is there pricing adjustments you need? Is that an innovation question? Just a little bit of color on the European market shares. Thanks.

BOB MCDONALD: As you know, John, the market in Europe economically is challenged. We believe that we will strengthen our share position in Europe over the next few months. Remember, Jon talked about introducing PODS on Ariel, which is the largest and leading laundry detergent in most of Europe, in the April through June quarter. We think the innovations like that will help. We also have introduced Oral Care in Europe in this semester, and so far, all markets are trending above expectation. So new innovations like that will help us regain share growth in Europe. Jon?

JON MOELLER: There are a couple of categories where we do need to adjust prices, and will be adjusting prices, but it's not significant. If you step back, we took $3.6 billion of pricing last year. We told you in the last call that we had made choices to roll back about $400 million of that. That figure is now about $500 million, including the changes that we're making in Europe.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Nik Modi of UBS. Please proceed.

NIK MODI, ANALYST, UBS: Just wanted to follow up on the geographic question. If you can provide any perspective on how the US actually performed volume-wise, just to give us a little perspective on that market. And then just the bigger picture question is, Jorge obviously was announced to take over the -- overseeing the productivity and organizational redesign. Just curious where we are in the process, and when we can expect to get an update? Thank you.

BOB MCDONALD: Let me take the second question first, if I may, Nik. Jorge and his team are hard at work. We've identified over 30 new discontinuous innovations that we can bring to market. We have vetted those throughout the Company. We're in the midst of consumer research, and we're excited about them. We took all of our leadership through them recently, and we fully expect to be in market with the beginnings of that -- the fruits of that labor within the next year or so.

JON MOELLER: And on the North American volume question, we typically don't provide numbers by region. What I will tell you is that the North American volume results in terms of growth were higher than the Company average, so there's a strong underpinning of volume component in the North American numbers.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Bill Schmitz of Deutsche Bank. Please proceed.

BILL SCHMITZ, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Good morning. I'm going to try to do this in a two-part question. Unconnected, obviously. So you say the operating margin leverage on 5% top line growth was 50 to 75 basis points. I was wondering if that still holds? And then secondly, if you look at the growth algorithm, it seems like your weighted category growth is 3% to 4%. If my math is right, it seems like to add 1 incremental point of top-line growth, it's only about 10 basis points of global market share, assuming your global addressable market is $800 billion. I want to know if that's correct or not. Thanks.

JON MOELLER: Both of those are ballpark correct.

BILL SCHMITZ: Okay. Thanks.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Bill Chappell of SunTrust Robinson Humphrey.

BILL CHAPPELL, ANALYST, SUNTRUST ROBINSON HUMPHREY: Just wanted to look at the two numbers that you throw out, and just try to get some color in terms of gaining close to 50% of your categories, gaining share worldwide, and then 60% in the US. Is there a number that you're looking for? Obviously 100% would be ideal, but where you come you away and say -- boy, this is what we're really aiming for and something we can kind of put in perspective.

BOB MCDONALD: We think about 65% is really was we would like to do.

BILL CHAPPELL: For both the US and international?

BOB MCDONALD: For every market in the world, sure.

OPERATOR: Next question comes from the line of Ali Dibadj of Bernstein. Please proceed.

ALI DIBADJ, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & CO.: So you had mentioned a couple times the organizational structure work that I think Jorge is doing, which sounds encouraging. But can you help define how that's different than the work Mark Pritchard did, I guess about five years ago, or Kirk Perry did a few years ago? I bet everybody on the phone, you certainly know the answer about what the org structure will be, as Mark and Kirk came up with, which is something around, there are too many cooks in the kitchen between the GBU, the MDO, the functions now, and maybe even at the GLC level.

So given that premise, will you have -- will he have the power as you actually execute some of the potential recommendations, so layered reductions I'm thinking of. In some of those structures, can it happen quickly, both to free up costs, but I think importantly, and this is at least my point of view for what it's worth, importantly also for quickening decision-making in the Company. And when can we hear more about this organizational structure view again, because I think it's key to your sustainable improvement here. Thanks a lot.

BOB MCDONALD: Just to clear up the confusion that I may have caused or may have been caused, Jorge Mesquita is leading our discontinuous innovation program. Jorge Uribe is leading our productivity and organization transformation program. What's different this time is that Jorge has a team of top leaders working with him. I'm involved. In fact, we had meetings this week and I was involved with the team this week, and our global human resource officer is leading, as well as the functional leaders are involved as well. And of course, Jorge reports to me, so this is why it will -- we will make big decisions, we will do things quickly, and we will find ways to improve the effectiveness of our organization.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Joe Altobello of Oppenheimer. Please proceed.

JOE ALTOBELLO, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER & CO.: Just had a quick question on the profit growth across your segments. If you look at your organic sales growth, it's been pretty remarkably consistent, but the profit growth has been somewhat more uneven. I'm looking at Grooming and Health Care in particular. Is that due to the timing of some cost saving initiatives or innovation or is there something more structural in those two segments, that might cause those profit growth to obviously lag the rest of the business? Thanks.

JON ANDERSEN: On the Grooming, you'll recall that we made, as part of some of the big interventions we made last spring, we had a pretty significant pricing and promotion adjustment on that business, and that's one of the reasons that on a year-to-year basis, that index is a little bit lower, but we would not expect that to be an ongoing dynamic. Obviously, the overall structural attractiveness from a margin standpoint of that business is very high. And the Health Care dynamic is really a function of a couple of supply-related issues that we've been working through successfully, but we've had to incur some additional costs to manage those effectively.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Connie Maneaty of BMO Capital Markets. Please proceed.

CONNIE MANEATY, ANALYST, BMO CAPITAL MARKETS: I think it's encouraging that the PODS are going into Europe. It suggests that you've come up with a solution to the capacity constraints in the US. So, could you comment on that and give us an indication of when you think US sales and merchandising can pick up on PODS in the US, because they've been flat for the last few months. Thanks.

BOB MCDONALD: Well, we have been merchandising PODS, Connie, in the US but we've been merchandising the bags that hold the pods, not the tubs, and we've got additional capacity in the US. That will ramp up this semester. And the new capacity that we've put in Europe is the ideal line. In other words, the first line we used was not ideal. We've improved that line, and that's the capacity we're putting in.

So you will quickly see unlimited capacity, in this semester, you will see relatively unlimited capacity in the US, as well as incremental capacity in Europe, and obviously as we have said, this is right now on one brand in one country and we plan to expand it.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Javier Escalante of Consumer Edge Research. Please proceed.

JAVIER ESCALANTE, ANALYST, CONSUMER EDGE RESEARCH: Hello, good morning everyone and thank you for taking the question. The question goes back again to the US. I think that you mentioned that it was ahead of Company average, so ahead of 2%. And if we look at retail sales, at least in tracked channels, we get declines of 2%. So if you can explain whether this is a channel issue, the fact that we don't get club data that can explain the gap of over 4 points of growth in volumes, or whether the increased merchandise activity ahead of the product launches in the third quarter in Beauty contributed to the strong growth in North America, if you can quantify that, that would be very helpful. Thank you.

JON MOELLER: I'm not sure I can square the full equation, because I haven't spent a lot of time on that. But the sell-in behind our Beauty initiatives and some of our other initiatives did have a positive volume impact in the second quarter in North America. But even with that impact stripped out, I would stay with the statement that North American results on a normalized basis from a volume standpoint were better than the Company average. So, pretty strong underlying. I really can't reconcile that to the other data, I apologize, but we'll work with you on that.

The very encouraging thing is that while there was some pipeline volume, which was obviously part of our forecast in the second quarter, the January business is very strong. We've seen no dip at all. In fact, we've seen acceleration, and so we're pretty comfortable that the volume trends we've seen in the US are sustainable.

OPERATOR: The next question comes from the line of Jason Gere of RBC Capital Markets. Please proceed.

JASON GERE, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: I guess I'll just continue on the last question on the US. Maybe if you can just talk a little about the competitive landscape and your thoughts maybe over the next six months, just the more benign cost environment, just seems top line is a little bit harder to come by. I know you have the strength of innovation, but I was just wondering what you're seeing from your peers. Thanks.

BOB MCDONALD: We're seeing the normal level of promotion support. Perhaps with the exception of the hair care category, which is probably one of the most active, given the number of new entries that have occurred over the last couple of years. But as you rightly pointed out, Jason, I think the antidote or the method of growth here is behind innovation, and we have a particularly strong innovation program.

As you know, Vidal Sassoon Pro Series, Jon talked about Pantene Expert adding over 6,000 -- like adding over 6,000 hairs to your head. I know I can certainly use that. Our Oral Care business continues to grow, Tide PODS. So again, innovation is key, and we plan to continue that.

JON MOELLER: As we've talked before, consumers remain very receptive to real innovation and are willing to pay for it, and importantly, retailers are hungry for real innovation that grows categories and grows market basket. So we've had very strong receptivity on the part of our retail partners to the innovation program.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Joe Lachky of Wells Fargo Securities. Please proceed.

JOE LACHKY, ANALYST, WELLS FARGO SECURITIES: I just wanted to focus specifically on the Beauty and Grooming segments where you showed positive organic sales but flat volume. And specifically on the volume, I guess you did mention you had a little bit of sell-in, the Beauty that gave you a positive impact in that segment. Maybe if you could quantify that. And then how do you turn around volume in Grooming? I know you got some innovation coming, both in Beauty and in Grooming, but maybe if you could describe how you accelerated volume in those two segments? Thanks.

BOB MCDONALD: Well, first of all, our Beauty business has grown organic sales 11 of the last 12 quarters averaging roughly 3% growth over the past three years. In our Grooming business, 11 out of 12 quarters, averaging 4% growth over the last three years. In hair care as I said, we're expanding the portfolio vertically, with innovations like Vidal Sassoon Pro Series in the salon affordable segment. Pantene Expert Series in the super premium space, and then as Jon pointed out, we've got Wella Illumina and Color Recharge in the professional space.

In skin care, we're investing to ensure sufficiency of our core Olay business, and we're bringing new innovation that addresses key segments where we currently have portfolio gaps, and it's critical to fill those portfolio gaps. Examples include, in the United States, new Olay Micro-Sculpting Cream, Total Effects CC Cream, which stands for Color Correction, and Olay Fresh Effects. In China, we've got Olay Naturals, Pro X Whitening, the launch of a new mid-tier brand in the coming months.

In blades and razors, the innovations we talked about last fiscal year are working. The share is up nearly 2 points to 74%, and we're launching a bundle of new innovations across Fusion Mach3 disposables and shave preps that are focused on sensitive skin and every man we talk to about shaving talks about sensitive skin. Last but not least, Jon talked about cosmetics and the two exciting Cover Girl innovations this quarter, Clump Crusher by LashBlast and Outlast Stay Brilliant Nail Gloss. Initial results of all of these are at or above our expectation.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Alice Longley of Buckingham Research. Please proceed.

ALICE LONGLEY, ANALYST, BUCKINGHAM RESEARCH: My questions are follow-up questions. I don't think that you gave us how fast you think your markets grew globally, and then in the three geographic regions, US, Europe and emerging regions, and then on the US alone, according to your numbers, did you overall hold, gain or lose share? Thank you.

JON MOELLER: From a market growth standpoint, average about 4%, a little over 4%. And that breaks down to about high singles in developing markets, obviously relatively low singles in developed markets. And on the share question on the US, Bob, you want to handle that?

BOB MCDONALD: Well, as we said, we're growing or holding share in 60% of our business in the US. If you look at the overall US number, it's down a little bit, but the trend is getting better. And as you would expect with these new innovations that started shipping at the end of December and with the strength that Jon talked about we're seeing in early January, we would expect those share trends to improve.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Mark Astrachan of Stifel Nicolaus. Please proceed.

MARK ASTRACHAN, ANALYST, STIFEL NICOLAUS: Back on Beauty, it still seems like you're losing share there in spite of the innovation. I guess, going forward, how do you think about balancing innovation with acquisitions, new brands, to improve the share trends, and then what do you think is a reasonable go forward expectation for your volume growth in that category?

JON MOELLER: Yes, Mark, I don't think -- I think there's a timing sequence difference here. I don't think we're losing share despite the innovations. In fact, in the places where we're innovating and introducing new innovations, or for example in the Western Europe, Latin America, where we've introduced Oral Care, we're gaining share. The innovations that we've talked about, particularly those in this call, are really those that have shipped in December, are strengthening the business in January, but you'll really see the impact more in the balance of the fiscal year. And certainly, that's true with something like Vidal Sassoon Pro Series or Pantene Expert, which only started shipping a couple weeks ago.

BOB MCDONALD: And our expectations for our Beauty and Grooming business on a long-term basis are no different than the balance of our business. We are targeting and want to be able to grow our sales 1 point to 2 points ahead of the market growth rate.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Michael Steib of Credit Suisse. Please proceed.

MICHAEL STEIB, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Good morning. Jon, you spoke earlier about getting the balance between savings and growth right. The business is so leveraged to grow more so than most of your peers. My question is, are you investing enough, is the Company investing enough to really drive that top-line growth, even at the high end of your new organic sales growth guidance, basically just implies growth in line with the past few years and still somewhat below some of your global peers.

JON MOELLER: That's a very good question. Thank you for that question. Our objective remains to grow our sales ahead of the market and so you're absolutely right that while we're accelerating, we're still on the journey, and we do intend to get to growth rates that are above the market level. We're investing significantly to do that. As I said in my remarks, Bob has said. We spend a lot of time working on strengthening plans for the second half of the year, with an eye towards doing exactly that, plus strengthening next fiscal year.

And we were already making significant investments in the back half, and those will be strengthened based on the over-delivery in the second quarter. So, we're pretty confident that results will continue to accelerate, and hopefully we'll get to where you rightly think we should be, sooner rather than later.

BOB MCDONALD: And at the same time, our productivity program will continue to accelerate as well. So there will be even more potential for investment.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Linda Bolton-Weiser of B. Riley Caris. Please proceed.

LINDA BOLTON-WEISER, ANALYST, B. RILEY CARIS: I was wondering if you could more specifically quantify these cost savings, the basis point positive effect on both gross margin and SG&A, and also the commodities comparison, I would assume it was flattish year-over-year or maybe even down. Is it right to assume the commodity comparison will get even better in the next two quarters? And then on the Fabric and Home care, did the Hurricane Sandy positive effect, how much was that on the whole category growth? Was it -- for the segment, was it 0.5 point or 1 point or less than that? Thanks.

JON MOELLER: So first of all, you're absolutely right commodity impacts were essentially neutral on the quarter. That's about what we're expecting on a go-forward basis. There are some that are moving up a little bit. There are some that are moving down a little bit. But in broad terms, it's fairly neutral.

In terms of the cost savings components within gross and operating margin, there were about 100 basis points of savings that positively impacted gross margin and about 60 basis points of savings that positively impacted the SG&A line, so that in total, there were about 160 basis points of productivity savings in the quarter. That compares to about 150 basis points in the last quarter. So you are seeing some, as you would expect, increasing contribution from productivity.

Frankly, it would be very hard for us to tease out the Sandy impact on any of our individual businesses. We worked hard to manage inventories and supply in a way that minimized the impact to consumers, so I would, for all practical purposes consider that a non-impact.

BOB MCDONALD: One of the things we did do with our Tide brand is our Tide Loads of Hope Truck which has washing machines on it, was up and down the East Coast, washing the clothes of people who lost their homes and introducing people who had never seen the Tide or never used the Tide brand before to Tide. So a good trial effort, but also doing some good things at the same time.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Leigh Ferst of Wellington Shields. Please proceed.

LEIGH FERST, ANALYST, WELLINGTON SHIELDS & CO. LLC: Can you tell us you how you evaluate your decision to shift more to local manufacturing in the emerging markets? You said it benefits the supply chain. Can you talk about how that -- could you talk about other issues that go into your decision, and how you evaluate that differently now versus maybe 5 or 10 years ago. And finally is there a halo effect on consumption if you're creating more employment with this local manufacturing?

BOB MCDONALD: You've hit on some of the criteria for that decision. Obviously, you want to establish a business that's big enough to create a rate of return for the capacity. But you also want to look at some key criteria. Location, government support, the quality of the workforce, the risk-adjusted rate of capital. These are all things that we look at. Relative to the change, it's very interesting.

Two things. One, when I joined the Procter & Gamble Company in 1980, manufacturing expense was a big element that we worried a lot about, and logistics costs was a very small element, because the price of diesel was very low. Today, manufacturing expense is relatively low, because there's very few people in our manufacturing plants. Jon talked about our ability to build 20 new plants but not add any enrollment or headcount to the Company, because of 6.5% improving productivity in manufacturing roles.

But the logistics cost has skyrocketed, and as a result of that, we worked very hard to distribute our plants globally. We have roughly 150 plants around the world. They have to be near the consumers they serve. We export very little, and we have a competitive advantage, because we create scale by having all of our global business units around one plant. So when we buy land, we buy land for all the business you units in the Company, planning to take advantage of that scale.

That scale then helps us in filling logistics orders because our trucks don't weigh out with something like Gillette blades, and they don't cube out with something like Pampers disposable diapers. We're able to get the optimum balance of weight and cube, which gives us a competitive advantage on cost. So we've done relatively well on logistic costs year-to-year despite the increase in diesel.

OPERATOR: Your final question comes from the line of Caroline Levy of CLSA. Please proceed.

CAROLINE LEVY, ANALYST, CLSA LIMITED: Good morning. Having just got back from China actually I just would like to ask you to dive a little deeper into the various segments, I think six major segments you have there, and what the competitive challenges have been. Is it more from local manufacturers or international competition by your key segments?

BOB MCDONALD: That would be a really long answer. Maybe Caroline, we can take that offline, because that's a really long discussion. But as you would imagine, in some categories it's the local competitor, in some categories it's the global competitor. There's not an easy answer. We are the largest consumer goods Company in China, by a large factor. We do have an outstanding distribution network and our expectation, as Jon has said, is to grow 1 point to 2 points above the market.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, that concludes today's conference. Thank you for your participation. You may now disconnect. Have a great day.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
prgml : The Procter & Gamble Company
   IN
i258 : Cosmetics/Toiletries | icnp : Consumer Products | ipcare : Personal Care Products/Appliances
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020130208e91p0018h
  


 HD
 Q1  2013 The  Procter  & Gamble Company Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
9,930 words
   PD
25 October 2012
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©012 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good morning, and welcome to Procter & Gamble's quarter-end conference call. Today's discussion will include a number of forward-looking statements. If you will refer to P&G's most recent 10-K, 10-Q, and 8-K reports, you will see a discussion of factors that could cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from these projections.

   TD
As required by Regulation G, P&G needs to make you aware that during the call, the Company will make a number of references to non-GAAP and other financial measures. Management believes these measures provide investors valuable information on the underlying growth trends of the business. Organic refers to reported results excluding the impact of acquisitions and divestitures, and foreign exchange where applicable. Adjusted free cash flow represents operating cash flow less capital expenditures, and adjusted for after-tax impacts of major divestitures. Adjusted free cash flow productivity is the ratio of adjusted free cash flow to net earnings excluding divestiture gains. Any measure described as core refers to the equivalent GAAP measure adjusted for certain items. P&G has posted on its website, www.PG.com, a full reconciliation of non-GAAP and other financial measures.

Now, I will turn the call over to P&G's Chief Financial Officer, Jon Moeller.

JON MOELLER, CFO, THE PROCTER & GAMBLE COMPANY: Thanks. Good morning, everyone. Joining me this morning are Bob McDonald and Teri List-Stoll. Our focus for the call this morning is our first-quarter results and outlook for the balance of the year. I also want to touch on the key elements of, and progress against, our growth and productivity strategy, which will be the focus of our analyst meeting here in Cincinnati in a few weeks. Our business segment information is provided in our press release and will be available in slides, which will be posted on our website, www.PG.com, following the call. We'll take questions after our prepared remarks, and we'll be available after the call to provide additional perspective as needed.

With that, let me move to first-quarter results, which were at the high end of our expectations on the top line and ahead of plan on operating profit, earnings per share, and cash. Our results position us well to deliver our plans for the fiscal year. We grew organic sales 2%, at the high end of our 0% to 2% guidance range. Organic volume was equal to prior year levels, and pricing added 2 points to organic sales growth. Foreign exchange impacts reduced sales growth by 6 points, leaving all-in sales down 4%, also at the high end of our guidance range.

Moving to the bottom line, all-in earnings per share were $0.96. This includes $0.10 of non-core costs, including $0.09 of non-core restructuring investments. Core earnings per share were much stronger than we had initially forecast at $1.06, an increase of 5% versus prior year. The better-than-expected earnings were driven by top-of-range sales growth, lower commodity cost pressure than we had built into our original forecast, and strong productivity progress.

Core operating profit margin grew 90 basis points, including 150 basis points of productivity improvements and cost savings. Core gross margin improved 80 basis points, cost savings and productivity helped gross margin by 100 basis points, and pricing improved gross margin by roughly 100 basis points. These benefits were partially offset by a 100-basis-point negative impact from a combination of product and geographic mix. Commodity costs had a modest negative impact on gross margin for the quarter.

Core SG&A costs decreased 10 basis points, as overhead cost savings of approximately 50 basis points were partially offset by increased plans and benefits costs, which we highlighted in our fiscal-year guidance. The core tax rate was 24.3%, within the expected range for the quarter. On an all-in basis, including restructuring cost, gross margin improved 30 basis points and all-in operating profit margin declined 60 basis points. The decline in reported operating margin was due to non-core restructuring investments of 140 basis points.

We generated $2 billion in free cash flow in the quarter, which was also ahead of our initial forecast. We continue to expect to deliver close to 90% cash flow productivity for the year. During the quarter, we returned $4.2 billion of cash to shareholders, $1.6 billion in dividends and $2.6 billion in share repurchase. Returning capital to shareholders through both dividends and share repurchase remains the central pillar of our effort to deliver superior returns.

[Net], as I highlighted, our first-quarter results were at the high end of our expectations on the top line, and ahead of plan on operating profit, earnings per share, and cash. We're continuing to make progress against each of our strategic priorities, maintaining strong developing-market momentum, strengthening our core developed-market business, building a strong innovation pipeline, and aggressively driving cost savings and productivity improvements. We maintain strong growth momentum in developing markets in the September quarter with organic sales up 7%.

We've seen underlying market growth rates soften a bit over the last four or five months. We've seen modest slowdowns in large markets such as China, Russia, Turkey, India, and Brazil. We expect the innovation and marketing plans we have in place for the balance of the year will help to further accelerate share and sales growth, despite slower market growth. We're currently forecasting 8% to 9% organic sales growth in developing markets for the fiscal year.

An important part of our developing market plans is continued deployment of our portfolio. We have over 20 new category country expansions scheduled this fiscal year. We're continuing the globalization of our oral care business. We're nearing the completion of our rollout in Latin America and western Europe. We recently launched Oral B toothpaste in Venezuela, Greece, and Portugal, with several more markets to come over the next six months. We also launched Oral B toothpaste in Israel this month.

In addition to toothpaste expansions, we're beginning to build out our full oral care regimen. For example, we launched Oral B white strips in Brazil earlier this month. This comes on top of our distribution expansion of toothpaste into high-frequency stores in Brazil. Oral B paste is now a 7.5% national value share, up 2.5 points versus last year. Other recent developing-market expansions include the launch of a full range of Vicks cough and cold products in Russia and Poland, Olay Skin Care in Israel, and the launch of Safe Guard in seven countries in Africa -- Nigeria, Ghana, Senegal, Kenya, Uganda, Tanzania, and Ethiopia.

We're continuing to build scale in developing markets behind geographic expansion and market share progress. We're localizing production as our distribution footprint expands and consumer demand grows. Increased scale and lower supply chain costs are key drivers for the profit improvement we expect to deliver in our top developing markets this year. In aggregate, we expect after-tax profits in our top-10 markets to increase by about 35% versus last year, including negative foreign exchange impacts, and around 50% on a local-currency basis.

At the same time, we're making progress in strengthening our core developed-markets business. We're ensuring that we have sufficient plans to achieve our objectives in the 40 largest category country combinations, most of which are in developed markets, and which account for about 50% of Company sales and 70% of operating profit. We're working to ensure we have offerings that provide superior performance and value, that our pricing is right, that innovation is strong, that marketing effectively communicates the benefits of our products, and that there is sufficient marketing support. These plans should be fully deployed and in market by January.

Our early interventions have begun to pay off. Market share trends have started to improve, consistent with our forecast. We held or grew market share in businesses representing over 45% of sales in the September quarter, up from 30% in the June quarter. You'll recall we made early interventions in four categories in the United States -- laundry detergents, auto dish-washing detergent, blades and razors, and oral care.

We're now growing value share in US laundry detergents behind our innovation and consumer value corrections, with the Tide brand up 2.5 points versus the prior year. Market share in automatic dish washing has improved on a sequential basis to back above the 60% level, though we're still down slightly versus prior year. We're growing share in the US blades and razors business with Fusion, Venus, and disposables all up versus prior year, and overall blades and razor share up more than 1 point. Our market share in the US toothpaste category is also growing, up 1 point versus the prior year. Overall, we're now holding or building share in businesses representing nearly 60% of sales in the US market, up from about 15% in the June quarter.

Underpinning all of our efforts in both developed and developing markets is a continued commitment to innovation. Tide Pods is on pace to deliver nearly $0.5 billion of sales this fiscal year, and trial rates are still growing at a strong pace. This is a discontinuous innovation that is reframing value for consumers. They get the right amount of detergent in one easy step to achieve outstanding cleaning, brightening, and stain removal results.

One of our competitors has indicated that the growth of the unit dose form is hurting category volumes. Our habits and practices research shows that their consumers often use more than the recommended dosage of their powders and liquids to get the cleaning they need. In fact, some of their consumers report using twice the recommended dosage or more, which does create a volume risk for them if their consumers move to the unit dose form. Tide powder and liquid consumers typically dose very close to the recommended level, given the efficacy of these products, so we are not expecting a significant volume impact.

Downy Unstopables, with its newly introduced shimmer scent, has achieved US consumption levels nearly twice as high as expected, and has beat expectations in expansion markets. ZzzQuil has reached a 20% value share in the US sleep aids category, making it the number-one branded sleep aid in terms of both units and value. We just introduced a new oral care line called Pro Health For Life, which includes a regimen of products across toothpaste, toothbrush, floss, and rinse, specifically designed for the oral health needs of consumers over 50 years old.

In salon hair care, Illumina color from Wella Professional is off to a strong start in Europe, and will be launching this quarter in the US. Illumina is truly breakthrough, providing up to 70% more light reflection and superior hair protection compared to competitive offerings. We recently launched a wave of new Prestige fragrances, including Gucci Floral Garden, Escada Delicate Notes, Hugo Boss Nuit for women. Our newest male fragrance brand, James Bond 007, and a redesign and relaunch of the core Dolce and Gabbana Pour Homme and Pour Femme fragrances. These initiatives drove mid-single-digit organic sales growth this quarter in a category pressured by slowing market growth.

Looking forward, we'll be launching Cascade Platinum in the US in January. This follows the successful share-building launch of Fairy Platinum in western Europe earlier this year. Cascade and Fairy Platinum not only do an excellent job of cleaning dishes, but they remove hidden grease in the dishwasher. We have a large bundle of initiatives coming across the skin care portfolio, including Olay Total Effects CC cream, a restage of Olay Regenerist, the largest of the Olay boutiques, and the introduction of a new mid-tier boutique called Olay Fresh Effects, which will be launched in January.

In hair care, we also have a full portfolio of innovation. In July we launched Pantene Beautiful Lengths, Pantene Daily Moisture Renewal, Head & Shoulders Damage Rescue, and Head & Shoulders Deep Clean. These initiatives enabled P&G to grow hair care value share for two consecutive months, including Head & Shoulders share up about 0.5 point despite the recent competitive anti-dandruff shampoo launch.

We're following this with the recently announced launch of Pantene Expert Collection, which includes two super premium lines -- Age Defy and Advanced Plus Keratin Repair, priced 200% to 250% above the base Pantene line. We'll also be introducing a new mid-tier hair care line priced at a 50 to 75 index to the base Pantene shampoos and conditioners. Our super premium Pantene expert collection and our new mid-tier line will be available in January.

In the March quarter, we'll be launching the first innovation that spans multiple male blades and razors brands, including both Fusion ProGlide and Mach III. We'll provide more details on this innovation when we get closer to launch.

We're increasing our discontinuous innovation efforts, and have organized to deliver this. Discontinuous innovations obsolete current products, and create new categories and new brands. Some of our fastest periods of growth, and some of our largest and most profitable present-day businesses, were driven by discontinuous innovation -- disposable diapers, liquid laundry detergents, two-in-one shampoos and conditioners. We want to get back to a higher level of discontinuous innovation. We began working on this two years ago; it takes time to generate ideas, qualify them, and bring them to market, but we're making good progress, and are building an increasingly promising pipeline of category and brand-creating innovations.

Like innovation, productivity also underpins all of our developed- and developing-market efforts. In February, we established our five-year $10 billion cost savings initiative. We're making good progress against this, and will not stop there. We now have plans to deliver $1.2 billion in savings this fiscal year in cost of goods sold, and so, have established stretch goals beyond this, targeting $1.4 billion. Our efforts in this area include a 5% net productivity increase across our manufacturing operations, even as we add new manufacturing capacity and enrollment in developing markets. They also include significant savings of raw material, transportation, and warehousing costs.

We're achieving efficiencies in marketing spend, particularly on non-media expenditures, and are reinvesting these savings in the strengthened developed-market plan. On a going basis, we'd expect a portion of these efficiencies to come to the bottom line. We've been making solid progress in the area of overhead costs. In the July/September quarter we delivered 1,300 net role reductions, bringing the cumulative total to 3,300 positions since we started the program. We expect roughly another 900 role reductions by the end of the month, bringing the total to 4,200. This puts us well ahead of pace to deliver the plan to reduce 5,700 roles by the end of this fiscal year.

Now that we're well on track to deliver our initial target of 10% overhead enrollment reduction, we'll aim to do more. We have identified and will appoint a Senior Group President to the role of Global Officer Productivity and Organization Transformation to lead the next round of design-based productivity improvements in a full-time capacity. This role will report directly to Bob McDonald, and will be supported by a productivity council of senior managers.

As we embrace this cost-savings work, we must and will keep our eye on the overriding objectives of shareholder value creation, with growth being an important part of this. At the end of last fiscal year, our core operating margin was nearly 19%, which compares to a simple competitive peer average of 15.9%. We start with a higher operating margin than 12 out of the 15 companies we benchmark. This includes SCA, Kimberly Clark, Energizer, Church and Dwight, Unilever, Henkel, Clorox, Beiersdorf, Loreal, Estee Lauder, Avon and Uniterm.

Only three companies are higher -- Colgate, Reckitt, and Johnson & Johnson, driven in large part by the structure and business model of the categories they compete in. This means that we are more effectively leveraged to growth than most of our competitors, and that there is significant value creation to be delivered through growth. In our endeavor to cut costs, we will not compromise our growth prospects or capabilities.

Ultimately, the answer to the right amount of cost savings doesn't lie in the math. It lies in holistic evaluation of value creation potential. There are opportunities to add cost, take Tide Pods for example, which improve the value of our offerings, extend our competitive advantages, build the business and create significant value, and there are clear opportunities to reduce costs. We're making strong progress against our $10 billion plan, and we will not stop there. But we'll not compromise growth in the process. Our endeavor and our job is to get this balance right. We'll go into more detail on each of these strategic focus areas I've just described at our analyst day in November.

Now I'll turn to our updated outlook for fiscal-year 2013 and the October-December quarter. There are two new developments that we're building into our guidance for the balance of the year. First, given the significant earnings and cash over-delivery in the July-September quarter, and given slowing market growth rates, especially in southern Europe and several large developing markets, we are leaning forward on our equity building marketing investments to support our back-half innovations. This will temper earnings per share growth in the second half, which would help to improve market share momentum heading into next fiscal year.

The second development is the explosion of the Nippon Shokubai factory in Himeji, Japan. Nippon Shokubai is one of our suppliers of absorbent gelling material, or AGM, which is used in diapers. There is still a high level of uncertainty as to when Nippon Shokubai's full AGM production will be restored. At this point, we are expecting minimal supply disruption to consumers. We will incur added supply chain costs in the back half of the fiscal year though, as we manage the flow of materials in finished product, and we've accounted for these costs within our guidance range.

Moving to the details, we're maintaining organic sales growth guidance in the range of 2% to 4% for the fiscal year. This is comprised of volume growth of 1% to 3%, pricing contribution of about 2%, and negative mix of around 1%. We now expect foreign exchange will be a top line headwind of about 2% to 3% based on mid-October spot rates. This brings our all-in sales look to essentially flat to up 1% versus the prior year. We're also maintaining our core earnings per share guidance range of $3.80 to $4.

Within our fiscal-2013 guidance, we expect approximately $0.04 to $0.05 benefit from a combination of lower interest expense and higher non-operating income for minor brand divestitures. These benefits will be offset by a $0.04 to $0.05 headwind from a higher effective tax rate on core earnings. There are a couple of significant items included within this guidance, which we've mentioned previously. Our guidance includes a $0.06 per share negative impact from pension and employee benefit plans, as a result of revised assumptions for the discount rate used to value plan liabilities and projected returns on plan assets. These costs are relatively equal across the quarters.

We've also included about a $0.06 per share impact from the combination of import restrictions in Argentina, and the carryover impact from mandated price reductions in Venezuela. Combined, the headwinds from pension and benefit plans, and specific market impacts, are reducing our core earnings per share growth rate by about 3 percentage points. Adjusting for these, our core earnings per share growth rate will be in the range of 2% to 7% for the fiscal year.

To aid transparency and enable more informed decision-making, we also wanted to call out some of the potential risks that are not included in our guidance. Our forecast is based on mid-October foreign exchange spot rates, potential currency risks include significant dollar strengthening and a large devaluation of the Venezuelan bolivar. Our guidance assumes current market growth rates continue for the balance of the fiscal year.

A significant further deceleration, for example, a deepening of the European financial issues or as a result of the fiscal cliff in the United States, would put additional downward pressure on market growth rates and our outlook. Last, we're also assuming in our guidance that key provisions of the US tax code, which require regular extension, including the R&D tax credit and sub-part F look-through rules, are in fact extended.

Finalizing the fiscal-year outlook and on an all-in basis, we have increased earnings per share estimates by $0.17, to $3.78 to $4.02. The increase is due to the estimated non-core holding gain resulting from our purchase of the balance of our baby care and feminine care joint venture in Iberia, which we completed earlier this week. The amount of the one-time gain is an estimate and may still change as we complete our evaluation of proper purchase accounting. The transaction is expected to be roughly neutral to core earnings per share results this fiscal year, as the ongoing benefits from full ownership of the business will be offset by a one-time transitional cost.

Our all-in earnings per share guidance range also includes non-core restructuring investments of $0.15 to $0.19 per share, consistent with our prior outlook. As I mentioned, we continue to expect free cash flow productivity of about 90% of net earnings for the year. This includes capital spending of about 5.5% of sales.

The first priority for the use of free cash flow is the dividend. We expect to continue our 122-year track record of dividend payments, and our 56-year track record of dividend increases. The exact amount of the increase is subject to Board approval, and will be determined by the Board during the April 2013 Board meeting.

For the October-December quarter, we're estimating organic sales growth in the range of 1% to 3%, sequentially better than the 0% to 2% guidance for the July-September period. Within this, we expect pricing will contribute 2 points to sales growth. Foreign exchange is expected to reduce sales by 2%, which leads to all-in sales in the range of down 1 to up 1 versus year ago.

On the bottom line, we expect December core earnings per share in the range of $1.07 to $1.13, or down 2% to up 4%, compared to prior year core earnings per share of $1.09. The guidance range reflects the impact of slower market growth and stronger marketing plans. The high end of this range includes the potential gain from a minor brand divestiture. The timing of this transaction is still uncertain, and the higher part of the range is less likely if the deal isn't completed in the quarter.

As you think about comparisons, recall the December quarter base period includes $0.04 per share gain from the divestiture of the Pure business. On an all-in basis, we estimate earnings per share in the range of $1.18 to $1.25. This includes non-core restructuring charges in the range of $0.05 to $0.06 per share, and a $0.17 share non-core gain I described earlier.

In summary, our first-quarter results were on track with our plan on the top line, and ahead of plan on operating profit, earnings per share, and cash. This puts us solidly on track to deliver our commitments for this fiscal year, while creating flexibility to further strengthen our plans for the core business in the second half and offset the cost of managing baby care supply.

We remain confident that our focus on maintaining momentum in developing markets, strengthening our core developed-market business, building a strong innovation pipeline, and aggressively driving cost savings and productivity improvement should generate, over time, the kind of earnings progress that will put us among the best in our industry. This, combined with our strong cash flow and track record of capital returns to shareholders, should enable us to generate superior levels of shareholder return in both the near and long term.

We'll be going into more depth on each of these areas at our analyst meeting here in Cincinnati on November 15. If you aren't able to travel to Cincinnati for the meeting, we hope you'll listen to the management presentation via the internet webcast.

That concludes our prepared remarks. Bob, Teri, and I would be happy to take your questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions)

Mr. Bill Schmitz, Deutsche Bank North America.

BILL SCHMITZ, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Hello guys, good morning.

JON MOELLER: Good morning, Bill.

BILL SCHMITZ: Can you just talk about what the US volume and sales growth was organically in the quarter? Then maybe some color between the delta of the 45%, of the global business where market share was flat or up, and the 60% in the US, which obviously is great incremental progress. But why was there such a big delta between the global and the US business?

JON MOELLER: So we had modest growth in organic sales in the US. Volume is still down slightly versus year ago but importantly, an accelerating trend as we went through the quarter. In terms of the difference between businesses representing 60% of sales growing share in the US and 45% globally, a big portion of that is there are two drivers of that.

One is China where while we continue to grow at a very attractive rate of 7% in the quarter, for the quarter we were below market level growth rate of about 11% and as you know, China is our second largest business in terms of both sales and profit. We have strong plans in China going forward. We expect to get back to share growth in the second half, but that's the predominant driver of the math.

OPERATOR: Dara Mohsenian, Morgan Stanley.

DARA MOHSENIAN, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Good morning.

JON MOELLER: Good morning, Dara.

DARA MOHSENIAN: Jon, I know category growth slowed a bit in the quarter around the world but on the other hand you had an Olympic boost and the organic sales growth did decelerate sequentially despite the easier comp and a number of the adjustments that you made. So, why aren't we seeing more progress on organic sales growth at this point? And what drives your confidence that you will see an improvement in the remainder of the year and that this marketing will pay off just given the difficult consumer environment out there?

JON MOELLER: Well as I mentioned in our remarks, our full intervention program in developed markets won't be fully deployed in market until January and as that happens, based on the results that we've seen with the first part of that deployment, which have been positive as I talked, that's one of the reasons we gained confidence both that it is right to invest in those plans and that they will result in accelerated top line progress.

The other thing I hope you picked up as we talked about innovation is that we have a very strong second half innovation program, and obviously I can only talk about innovations that we've already announced for the trade. There are a number of things that we aren't yet talking about but we should -- that's why we should expect the business to accelerate. Bob, I don't know if you have any further thoughts on that?

BOB MCDONALD, PRESIDENT, CEO, CHAIRMAN, THE PROCTER & GAMBLE COMPANY: Well I think I would just say, Dara, as Jon said, we're in the early innings of our program, that our 40/20 plan is on track. It's gaining momentum in developing markets and strengthening the core developed markets. We're in the early innings of our innovation program, as Jon says, it strengthens after January and we're also in the early innings of our productivity program, so what you should expect to see is continued progress. We're on track and continued progress is ahead.

OPERATOR: John Faucher, JPMorgan.

JOHN FAUCHER, ANALYST, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: Yes, thanks. Just wanted to follow-up a little bit on the beauty category in terms of looking at hair care in particular where the market share trends continue to be very, very weak. Can you talk a little bit about that from a regional basis in terms of where you think the biggest opportunities are and then, Jon, you talked a lot about the pipeline. Is this about new products or is this about repositioning that's really going to change the underlying trend in beauty which has been disappointing for quite some time now?

BOB MCDONALD: Relative to hair care, we're seeing signs of progress. In the US, the Pantene share has begun to stabilize and our most recent product launches are performing well. North America remains a high priority for hair care. We're investing behind our core brands and we have a full portfolio of innovation this fiscal, particularly strengthening throughout the year.

In July we launched Pantene Beautiful Lengths, Pantene Daily Moisture Renewal, Head & Shoulders Damage Rescue, Head & Shoulders Deep Clean. In January we're following this with recently announced launch of Pantene Expert Collection, which includes two super premium lines, Age Defy and Advanced Plus Keratin Repair, priced 200% to 250% above the base Pantene line. We're also introducing the new mid tier hair care line priced at 50 to 75 index to the base Pantene shampoos and conditioners, so we're excited about the hair care business. We're making progress over time but as I said earlier, it's the early innings and we should see greater progress over time.

JON MOELLER: And I think to your question, John, of this repositioning of current products or new products. We're really making a big intervention in the portfolio for the first time in a long time so both -- if you think about hair care, the Pantene super premium items, as well as the launch of a mid tier line up, are completely new to us. Illumina, which I mentioned in the salon business, is a completely new product that's transforming the way the hair dressers think about color and protecting it. And then if you think about our skin care portfolio, obviously the new mid tier line up is a completely new item in our portfolio. So we'll make some pretty significant progress on filling what have been some perennial holes and I think that will stand us in much better stead.

BOB MCDONALD: Each one of these products, John, is backed by a new technology which is superior to what's currently available and that's important because that's what delivers the superior benefit for the consumer.

OPERATOR: Nik Modi, UBS.

NIK MODI, ANALYST, UBS: Yes, good morning everyone.

JON MOELLER: Hi, Nik.

NIK MODI: Quick question for me is just on the US side. The shares have really improved quite dramatically, I'm assuming that's more levels of spending so just wanted to get an understanding of the ramp there. Should we be expecting a ramp in spending over the next several quarters as you get to a more normalized level that you're comfortable with or do you feel like you're at good levels already. Thank you.

JON MOELLER: Well there are two components as you'll recall when we discussed this initially. One is more competitive pricing, which is one element of what's driving better plans and that's pretty much done. We talked about $400 million of price roll backs out of the $3.6 billion in our last call. That's still the figure we're looking at. Of course, this is something we'll continue to look at on a weekly and monthly basis but that's largely in market. And then marketing spending, as I mentioned, will increase as we bring our innovation pipeline fully into the market starting in January.

OPERATOR: Chris Ferrara, Banc of America.

CHRIS FERRARA, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Hello, thanks. Guys, you've been using some tempering language around the balancing of cost savings going forward with the ability to grow and I was just wondering, the out performance that you've seen near term on cost savings, is that essentially a pull forward relative to the $10 billion? Is the $10 billion pie potentially getting bigger? Then is the 150 basis points of savings you saw this quarter a reasonable run rate to think about going forward? Thanks.

JON MOELLER: So Chris, we have to increase -- if you go back to the original $10 billion that we laid out, you'll probably remember that, that was $8 billion of cost reductions and $2 billion of leverage. That assumed a 5% growth rate on the top line, which we haven't delivered, either last year and aren't forecasting to deliver this year. So we do have to increase the amount of absolute reductions that we're targeting to make and we'll do that and we won't stop there either, and Bob can talk more about that in a second.

In terms of the level of savings we should see going forward, I think 150 basis points -- this will be lumpy so I wouldn't model that out quarter by quarter, but it's in the range in terms of the level of magnitude you should see.

BOB MCDONALD: As we talked about our plan, Chris, you'll recall we talked about the 40/20/10 focus. We talked about boosting innovation and we talked about the importance of productivity. In innovation, we've taken steps to improve our discontinuous innovation, we've discussed those in the past and we're continuing to improve our innovation as reflected in the program that Jon described, which is getting stronger throughout the year.

In terms of productivity, we're committed to developing a culture of productivity in our Company equal to our culture of innovation and that's the establishment of the productivity council we talked about, the senior officer for organization transformation productivity. We see this as an ongoing part of our culture, not as an episodic event and as a result, we want to drive it in the culture and continue it on an ongoing basis.

OPERATOR: Wendy Nicholson, Citi.

WENDY NICHOLSON, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: My question is a follow-up I think on all those points and, Jon, I think your comments on the call about benchmarking your operating margin against your peers. How your operating margin is already very good raises the question, again, about your long term targeted growth rate of potentially being double-digit on the earnings front and I want to just follow-up on that and ask why that is.

Most of your peers are not putting up double-digit earnings growth. I think there's a fear, at least that we have, that you are pushing for something that is going to bring Proctor back into a boom and bust cycle of growth. And given everything out there from a competitive perspective, is it not better to reign in that long term growth rate and just go for consistent earnings growth year after year? Because it just seems like the gap between 4% market growth, a little bit of market share expansion, a little bit of share buyback seems like double-digit earnings growth is a carrot you just aren't going to get to on a sustainable basis. So any thoughts I'd appreciate.

JON MOELLER: Well thanks, Wendy. First, we continue to keep our long term guidance range anchored in high singles to low doubles. High singles are in there for a reason and you've hit on some of the key points. I think there is a big driver though in terms of productivity.

That's the $2 billion of savings a year is worth 11 points in earnings per share by itself, but you're absolutely right that we shouldn't get ahead of ourselves and we shouldn't stretch too far. Internally we talk about balance. Balance of growth of developed and developing markets, balance of top and bottom line and balance of short and long term and we will keep that balance in mind as we formalize our guidance going forward.

OPERATOR: Ali Dibadj, Bernstein.

ALI DIBADJ, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & CO.: Hello, guys, so we're obviously very happy to see that you found religion in cost cutting and you used to sound like it was a tough thing to do and now it's almost raining cost cutting which is good news. And you're setting up organizationally to do this. As you think about it going forward -- and we're excited to hear again about it sounds like an increase in cost cutting going forward -- as you think about this going forward. How do you position yourself in the context of your peers were also increasing their restructuring spending, almost in a tit for tat manner?

And what does it mean, what does it mean to the organization and I say that in the context of one of the things you resisted about doing a big cost cutting was that it would be disruptive to the organization. Can you revisit that statement from a few years ago and tell us how it's impacting the organization now and more broadly, you think the industry and your competitors are doing the same thing.

BOB MCDONALD: Ali, this is Bob. I think that we've discussed the factors that impacted our past results. What I want to focus on is the future. We are committed to creating a culture of productivity in our Company and the way we're going to do it, exactly as we described in our comments, is to put together a guiding coalition of top leaders in this Company.

As we do this, we're going to be looking for opportunities to find efficiency within the organization. One of the things we know from our organization survey is that the organization is asking for this. This isn't something that will be disruptive, in fact it should be enabling to higher growth rates because of the way that we currently operate where employees are telling us that they could use better efficiency. So we're going to be working hard on this and the intention is to create a culture of productivity that outlasts any of us in the current leadership of the organization.

JON MOELLER: But I think also, Ali, you raise a very valid point which I was trying to get to in my prepared remarks as well. Back to balance and we are cognizant of the need to keep that balance and that will stay in front of us as we make these choices.

BOB MCDONALD: We were cognizant of this balance idea when we put together the plan, the 40/20/10 plan that's about balancing developed and developing. Most of the 40 are in developed, the 10 are all developing, it's about innovation and it's about innovation and productivity and those two are not contradictory. And we expect every Procter & Gamble leader to be able to lead with balance and do both simultaneously.

OPERATOR: Joe Altobello, Oppenheimer.

JOE ALTOBELLO, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER & CO.: Thanks, good morning. First just wanted to start out with a housekeeping question. I think earlier you mentioned you're seeing a little bit of slowdown overall in your markets globally and on the last call you mentioned you're looking for about 4% to 5% market growth this year. So, I would assume you're more comfortable with the lower end of that range at this point going forward.

And secondly in terms of mix, it was flat this quarter. It has been a drag a little bit. Could you break down what that looked like versus -- in terms of product versus geographic mix and might that be neutral for the full year? Thanks.

JON MOELLER: So I think you're right, Joe, to be thinking about the lower end of the range in terms of market growth rates, and in terms of the mix components, it's really kind of equally split between product and geographic. I would expect actually the geographic component of mix to increase as a negative going forward, simply because we expect our growth rates in developing markets to accelerate, as I mentioned earlier, and product really is anybody's guess. That's all dependent on what consumers choose to buy so we'll have to see. But if you look at the aggregate, it would probably be a drag as opposed to even going forward.

OPERATOR: Javier Escalante, Consumer Edge Research.

JAVIER ESCALANTE, ANALYST, CONSUMER EDGE RESEARCH: Hello, good morning, everyone. I actually have a follow-up on the development and emerging markets. Yesterday, Kimberly reported 45% volume growth in China diapers and mid teens growth in Brazil, Russia. This morning also Unilever reported 12% organic sales growth in emerging markets. So to what extent what you guys are doing, refocusing the Company, somehow is taking resources out of developing and emerging markets? That's why you decelerated to seven and we should see a ramp up as you put the plans in place or as opposed to just real market deceleration, which other companies don't seem to have seen as much.

BOB MCDONALD: I think it's important, Javier, again to go back to the plan. The 40/20/10 plan focuses on the top 10 developing markets and we as a Company have a smaller footprint in developing markets than our competitors. We're only 38% of our business in developing markets, our competitors are 40% and 60% and as a result, they get a greater degree of the growth in developing markets than we do.

That's why Jon talked about filling out 20 new category country combinations. That's why we're building roughly 15 plants in developing markets as we need to increase our footprint in developing markets going forward. It's one of our strategic priorities, as Jon mentioned, so no, we're not taking resources away from it at all. In fact, we're focusing on it.

JON MOELLER: And if you look across the BRIC markets for example, organic sales rates in the last quarter, China was 7%, Russia was 8%, India was 25%, Brazil was 28%, so there's very strong levels of growth. And as I mentioned, the acceleration that we're expecting is really behind innovation-based plans and category expansion, so I expect it will occur.

OPERATOR: Connie Maneaty, BMO Capital Markets.

ZEE CRAMER, ANALYST, BMO CAPITAL MARKETS: Hello, it's actually Zee Cramer filling in for Connie. Given that P&G is 4 points below market growth in China, I wanted to get a sense of where you're seeing weakness and then was also wondering if you could give us an update on the Teva joint venture and what contribution it has made? Thank you.

BOB MCDONALD: Thank you, Zee. Our China organic sales grew high single-digits in the quarter and grew double-digits last fiscal year. We've recently experienced some share softness driven mainly by skin care where we've had some portfolio gaps and oral care where we've had price gaps. We've got a strong portfolio of innovation launching this fiscal year and we're confident that the combination of that innovation and the intervention plans that we've already made are going to return us to market share growth in China.

OPERATOR: Your next question --

JON MOELLER: Give us just a second to comment on Teva. I mentioned in my remarks the expansion of the Vicks franchise into Russia and Poland. That's emblematic of the kind of activity that we see ahead of us. We're now at about a year in and we're very excited about what we see. We just had a strategy review with our personal health care business last week. There is a lot of very promising activity building on the combined strengths of both Procter & Gamble and Teva that should allow us to dramatically accelerate our rate of global expansion and our rate of category expansion, even here in the US.

BOB MCDONALD: And our healthcare business is strategically important to us. As we said before, we have the largest and most profitable household care business, the largest and most profitable beauty care business, and one of the largest and most profitable healthcare businesses. But given the demographics of the world, we think this is a key growth engine for the Company now and into the future and we see Teva as the key enabler.

OPERATOR: Bill Chappell, SunTrust.

BILL CHAPPELL, ANALYST, SUNTRUST ROBINSON HUMPHREY: Good morning. Just wanted to delve a little bit more into the upside that you're reinvesting in the back half of the year. Can you give us an idea in terms of marketing? Is that more trade promotions, is that more advertising? Will that be more in developing markets or developed markets? Thanks.

BOB MCDONALD: As Jon indicated in his remarks, Bill, this is behind the innovations we're bringing to market and as a result of that, it will be more marketing spending like advertising, trial generation, awareness generation, not trade spending. And it will go with the innovation, so it will be split relatively on a proportional basis between developing and developed.

OPERATOR: Jason Gere, RBC Capital Markets.

JASON GERE, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Thanks. Good morning. I wanted to talk a little bit about Western Europe and yesterday we heard about Kimberly Clark exiting the diaper business out there, obviously they couldn't cover their cost of capital.

So I want to maybe delve in a little bit about that region and the discipline that maybe you guys have in terms of looking at more businesses there that you may have similar situations and really reallocate those resources to the emerging markets as you've talked about with your long term growth plan. I know you've done this before, consumer tissue is one business that you got out of a few years ago, but if you could provide a little bit of color that would be appreciated, thanks.

JON MOELLER: Sure, I'll just say a couple things and turn it over to Bob. Frankly, this is a story that frames scale pretty well. Kimberly has about a 10% market share in Europe and has difficulty, understandably, earning cost of capital returns. We have about a 50% share in the baby care business and as a result, have much more attractive structural economics. We have fairly strong share positions across the categories we operate in Europe and so benefit from scale. Our margins are in the mid teens and offer us many attractive opportunities, so I wouldn't see a significant redeployment of resources from Europe to other markets.

BOB MCDONALD: Yes, I think Jon said it well. Europe is an important market for us. We see the contraction there as an opportunity and as Jon said, we're deployed against that opportunity but also we're working in Europe, just as we are in other parts of the world, on improving our productivity while we improve our innovation.

OPERATOR: Alice Longley, Buckingham Research.

ALICE LONGLEY, ANALYST, BUCKINGHAM RESEARCH: Hello, good morning. I've got a question follow-up on your market growth assumptions, so you're announcing globally your markets are growing about 4%. Could you break that down into how fast your markets are growing in the US, Europe, and emerging regions? As you do that, tell us how fast the markets are growing in volume and pricing terms. And then just one other, which is that are you losing share in emerging markets in countries other than China or is it just China? Thank you.

JON MOELLER: So in terms of the regionalization of market growth, think of it as about 9% growth in aggregate on a market level and developing markets, 1 to 2 points, probably closer to 1 in the developed world. Within that 1, Europe would be negative, the US would be positive.

And then in terms of market share broadly, when we're growing at rates like 25% in India and 28% in Brazil, those are share gaining growth rates and so broadly we continue to -- because China's so big, in aggregate we did lose a little bit of share in developing markets but that's really the first quarter out of the last 11 that's happened. We know why its happened and as Bob said, we've got plans to address it. We're very comfortable with our forecast of growing share as we go through the rest of the year.

BOB MCDONALD: Remember in China, we're about 3.5 to 4 times the size of our next largest competitor.

OPERATOR: Joe Lachky, Wells Fargo.

JOE LACHKY, ANALYST, WELLS FARGO SECURITIES: Hello thanks, just filling in for Tim Conder this morning but we were talking a little bit earlier we were talking on the beauty category, the beauty segment lagging as far as organic growth and you talked a lot about the hair care and Pantene. But I wanted to focus my question more so on the skin care, specifically your strategy in Olay, and particularly in developed markets. It seems like you're stretching your product portfolio vertically, maybe going up against some prestige manufactures and it seems maybe you're missing out on some mid tier innovation in skin care, so I was just wondering if you could expand on that a little bit.

JON MOELLER: Thank you, Joe, for the question. Specifically in the announcement we announced that we're going to be entering the mid tier segment of skin care in North America in the second half of the year with the launch of an Olay item, an Olay Boutique. So we see that opportunity as well and we're going after it. That's it.

OPERATOR: Jon Andersen, William Blair.

JON ANDERSEN, ANALYST, WILLIAM BLAIR & COMPANY: Good morning.

JON MOELLER: Good morning.

JON ANDERSEN: I just had a question on some of the comments around the hale that you're achieving, starting to achieve in emerging markets. I thought, Jon, your comment was interesting that after-tax profitability is up I think 35% year-over-year in emerging markets. Do you view fiscal '13 as an inflection point with respect to that, that the scale that you're building and the local production that you're bringing online is positioning you for acceleration on that front? That would be helpful, thanks.

JON MOELLER: Yes, first one housekeeping clarification. The 35% profit growth that I referred to was in our top 10 developing markets but those are the most important and the biggest, so it's meaningful. And I do think, Jon, this is an inflection point. I don't view it as a stare step but a true inflection point where we should continue to build profitability going forward.

We're at a point now in many of these markets where local production is justified and we're building factories and as those come on line, and as we get both the benefits of our overall productivity program and the benefit of increased scale in developing markets, things like media purchasing, et cetera, we should see a continued slope on that line.

BOB MCDONALD: And this is why, Jon, continued entry into more category country combinations is important. Also I said earlier that we were disadvantaged by having a lower percent of our business in developing markets vis-a-vis our competition. But having said that, our lower percentage at 38% still leads to a $32 billion business which is larger in aggregate than some of our competitive companies. So it's the largest developing market business in aggregate and that's what leads to the scale advantage that Jon just described.

OPERATOR: Mark Astrachan, Stifel Nicolaus.

MARK ASTRACHAN, ANALYST, STIFEL NICOLAUS: Yes, thanks and good morning. Just housekeeping first, share repurchase is higher than anticipated in the quarter. Is there a change or is there any difference versus the expectations you laid out previously on that? And then back on beauty, just curious how you think about balancing increased SKUs in existing brands with the development of new brands and potentially acquisitions.

JON MOELLER: So first on share repurchase, we did front load our share repurchase program and that was largely a reflection on where we started the quarter relative to stock price. We haven't, at this point, changed any guidance relative to the $4 billion we expect to repurchase. That's obviously something we continue to revisit and our principles are very clear in returning excess cash to shareholders. So if cash comes in strong, we'll look at our options in that regard.

BOB MCDONALD: You raise a good point, Mark, on the incremental SKUs. We work very hard as part of our innovation development to make sure that we introduce SKUs that will be successful, that are consumer relevant and that the consumers will buy superior performing products at a good value.

And so we also work very hard with retailers to make sure they have an efficient assortment of products on their shelf, that they don't have extraneous SKUs that don't meet the high criteria they have. Or, alternatively, that they don't support launches of competitive brands which don't succeed. Because oftentimes, you have a lot of companies bringing out SKUs that don't succeed and later need to be cleaned up. And we work hard not to be one of those companies and we work hard with retailers to make sure they get the highest return on investment in their space.

JON MOELLER: And as it relates to acquisitions, I continue to view that -- we continue to view that as a much lower priority than organic growth just given the opportunities we have in front of us.

OPERATOR: Linda Bolton-Weiser, Caris.

LINDA BOLTON-WEISER, ANALYST, CARIS & COMPANY: Hello. I was wondering, on the topic of disruptive innovation, if you could give a time frame for when we might expect to see that. I'm assuming not in FY '13 and even though you don't want to tell us about it, have you identified internally what it will be? Thanks a lot.

BOB MCDONALD: Linda, I would offer going to a store today and look at Tide Pods. I think that's relatively, I think that is disruptive. It's growing the Tide business strongly, as Jon said, and our laundry business as well. It's leading to about $0.5 billion in incremental sales or in sales and it's on one country on one brand. So we still have a long way to go to roll it out. Relative to the other disruptive or as you've called them disruptive, we call them discontinuous items we're developing, we've said that you'll see things over -- within a year, over the year and we're obviously not going to tell you what they are right now because then our competitors would know as well.

OPERATOR: Caroline Levy, CLSA.

CAROLINE LEVY, ANALYST, CLSA LIMITED: Thank you, good morning, everybody. My question is on China. A couple of things. I believe you've moved your beauty headquarters to, I think, Singapore. So, just to understand what differences you expect to see in the beauty business over there and globally and then just across any other areas as a result of doing that.

The second thing is I don't think you mentioned diapers as a place you'd lost share in China but based on what Kimberly said, it sounds like you are losing share there so could you address the diaper business in China?

BOB MCDONALD: First, on beauty. When we call our category beauty, we're talking about skin care, antiperspirant deodorant, and bar soap -- or bar soap or body wash. It is true that we have moved the headquarters of that business, we're talking now less than 40 people, to Asia. The reason for that is that's where the business is greatest, that's where the competition is toughest, and that's where many of the trends are being set. So that's the reason we did that.

JON MOELLER: And then on diapers, remember we're starting from a much larger position than Kimberly Clark is at today. We actually grew the Pampers business 20% in China over the quarter, so we're very happy with how that business is progressing.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, that concludes today's conference. Thank you for your participation. You may now disconnect. Have a great day.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
prgml : The Procter & Gamble Company
   IN
i258 : Cosmetics/Toiletries | icnp : Consumer Products | ipcare : Personal Care Products/Appliances
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | crecal : Product Recalls | c15 : Performance | c26 : Product Safety | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020121108e8ap002bd
  


 HD
 Q4  2012 The  Procter  & Gamble Company Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
13,860 words
   PD
3 August 2012
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©012 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good morning. And welcome to Proctor & Gamble's quarter end conference call. Today's discussion will include a number of forward-looking statements. If you will refer to P&G's most recent 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K reports, you will see a discussion of factors that could cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from these projections.

   TD
As required by Regulation G, P&G needs to make you aware that during the call the Company will make a number of references to non-GAAP and other financial measures. Management believes these measures provide investors valuable information on the underlying growth trends of the business.

Organic refers to reported results, excluding the impacts of acquisitions and divestitures and foreign exchange where applicable. Adjusted free cash flow represents operating cash flow, less capital expenditures, and adjusted for after tax impacts of major divestitures. Adjusted free cash flow productivity is the ratio of adjusted free cash flow to net earnings, excluding divestiture gains. Any measure described as core refers to the equivalent GAAP measure adjusted for certain items. P&G has posted on its website, www.pg.com, a full reconciliation of non-GAAP and other financial measures.

Now, I will turn the call over to P&G's Chief Financial Officer, Jon Moeller.

JON MOELLER, CFO, THE PROCTER & GAMBLE COMPANY: Thanks. Good morning. Joining me this morning are Bob McDonald and Teri List.

Today we're going to share fourth quarter results. We'll also discuss our commitment to deliver leadership levels of total shareholder return behind a time tested business model and stronger, more focused plans.

I'll begin today's call with a summary of our fourth quarter results and guidance for fiscal 2013 and the September quarter. We're going to skip the detailed business by business discussion. All of this information is provided in our press release and will be available in slides, which we posted on our website, www.pg.com. Doing this will give time for Bob to provide his thoughts on our strategy, our commitment to winning and to leadership levels of shareholder return.

We'll of course take questions after our prepared remarks and we'll be available after the call to provide additional perspective as needed. With that, let me move to fourth quarter results.

We grew top line organic sales 3%. Progress was broad-based with organic sales up in four of five reporting segments. P&G has averaged 4% organic sales growth over the past three years, achieving 3% to 5% organic sales growth for the past 11 consecutive quarters. Over this period we've added organic sales of $8.5 billion, an amount that equates to the sales of a Fortune 300 Company. We have effectively created an Energizer and Church and Dwight in 3 years.

Growth continues to be very strong in developing markets. Developing markets now generate nearly 40% of sales and 45% of our unit volume. It's a $32 billion business, the largest developing market business of any consumer products company.

We see significant remaining growth opportunities as our business in developing markets is still lower as a percentage of sales than some of our competitors. We continue to focus on growing our footprint in the largest, most important developing markets, to improve our exposure to best-in-class levels. We grew developing market organic sales 10% in the quarter, organic sales in China were up 9%, Brazil was up 17%, India sales grew 21% and Russia was up 18%. We have a strong track record of successful developing -- excuse me, a successful developing market growth, even in our come from behind markets.

In 1991, our sales in Asia, including India, were about $1.5 billion. Unilever sales in Asia, by our estimates, were $4 billion. So we were about 38% of Unilever's size in 1991. In 2001, ten years later, we generated $4 billion of sales in Asia, and were 57% of estimated Unilever size. In 2011 we generated $12.8 billion of sales in Asia, 96% of our estimate of Unilever's Asian sales. And in the year we just completed, we generated $14.7 billion of sales in Asia and estimate we've now effectively matched Unilever.

In the early 1990s our sales in greater China were about equal to Unilever's, at around $0.5 billion. Today greater China is our second largest market with sales of $6 billion. This compares to Unilever sales of $2.5 billion.

I use Unilever as a comparison point simply because they're best-in-class when it comes to developing market footprint. We've built our developing market shares in 8 of the last 10 quarters and have held share or grown it in all 10.

Developed market sales were down slightly in the quarter we just completed and were below levels reported by our best competitors. Developed market business is are a disproportionate focus of strength and plans in our top 40 category country combinations, which we discussed at the Deutsche Bank conference in Paris. These 40 businesses represent about 50% of company sales and approximately 70% of operating profit. Trends in these markets should begin to improve over the next six to nine months as plans are fully implemented.

Total Company fourth quarter organic volume was in line with prior year levels. Pricing contributed 4 points to organic sales growth, positively benefiting all five reporting segments. This marks the fourth consecutive quarter where pricing has added 4 or more points to sales growth and the fourth consecutive quarter where pricing has been a positive contributor to growth in each segment.

We've received several questions about the retrospective wisdom of our price increases. This is an important question, which I want to spend a little bit of time on.

Over the last two years, commodity costs increased by $3.6 billion, which is nearly 25% of our core operating earnings. Letting this all come to the bottom line would have been very punishing for our shareholders and would have compromised structural economics in many markets, significantly reducing the value of future growth. We made what we believe was the hard, right choice, taking pricing across our product categories, while acknowledging the market share volatility we knew would result.

Where competitors, including private label have also taken pricing, we stand in very good shape. Price elasticity at the category level is generally low in consumer staples categories. In some instances, where competitors have not taken pricing, we need to adjust. This is relatively easy to do but takes some time to fully execute.

During our last earnings call we mentioned six category country combinations where we had made a decision to roll back prices or match increases in competitive promotion levels. These choices are now beginning to positively impact business momentum. Four of these moves were made in the US and three of these categories we've already begun to see the benefit.

US laundry market share was down 1.6 points over the past 12 months. Over the past six months, it was down 0.8 points. Market share in the past three months is down 0.2 points and in the past month we built market share of 0.6 points. Within this, Tide value share is up 2.6 points behind the success of premium priced Tide PODS innovation. We expect this trend to continue as we began merchandising Tide PODS and as our larger sized higher value powdered laundry packages reach the market.

US male blades and razor share trends are also positive. Past 12 month share was down minus 1.4 points. Past six and three month shares were down 0.7 points. In the past month we grew share by 0.4 points. The strength of our plans on this business will increase going forward.

While not yet fully positive, share trends in US auto dish have also improved significantly. On a 12 month basis shares down 5.5 points, while past one month share is down only 1 point. The US oral care changes we talked about in the last call just went into full effect in July.

We have subsequently announced changes in US family care where we will be taking a list price reduction on our Bounty basic and Charmin basic lines, and several beauty and health business where we will be making targeted adjustments. In total, the investment in price rollbacks and increased promotion now represent about $400 million of the $3.5 billion of pricing we put into the market. Many more prices are holding than are not.

As I said, we had 4 points of pricing benefit to the top line in the quarter we just completed. Unilever had 3.5 points, Colgate had 3.5 points, Kimberly had 2 points, Clorox had 5 points. We don't appear the to be differentially exposed to a significant degree. Mix reduced sales by 1 percentage point in the quarter, due mainly to over proportionate growth in developing markets. All in sales for the quarter were down 1% versus the prior year, reflecting a negative 4 point FX impact.

Moving to the bottom line, core earnings per share were $0.82, in line with prior year. The core tax rate was 22.4%, higher than last year's rate of 21.1%, but lower than the 25% rate included in our initial guidance for the quarter. The lower rate was driven by several favorable audit outcomes and behind stronger developing market results which drove favorable tax mix. The lower rate contributed $0.03 of earnings per share versus our tax guidance.

All in earnings were $1.24 per share, up 48% versus year-ago. This includes a positive impact from the Pringles divestiture, which closed in the quarter, of $0.48 per share. It also includes $0.08 of non-core restructuring costs.

Core gross margin increased 10 basis points. Pricing improved gross margin by roughly 220 basis points and savings projects helped gross margin by approximately 240 basis points. These benefits were partially offset by a 200 basis point negative impact from higher commodity costs and 100 basis point negative impact from a combination of product and geographic mix. Core SG&A costs were down 80 basis points, due mainly to top line leverage and lower overhead costs, driven by productivity improvements.

An important part of our strength in plans is our commitment to improve productivity. As one demonstration of this commitment, we significantly over delivered our overhead productivity targets for the fiscal year. In February, we announced our intent to reduce non-manufacturing enrollment by 3% by June 30. This equated to 1,600 rolls. Actual non-manufacturing enrollment is down by 2,000 rolls versus last year, or 4%, ahead of target.

There are a another 990 individuals whose effective transition date was July 1, 2012. These rolls are not included in the June 30 reduction figure of 4%. Through July 1 then the reduction would be 5%, about 60% of objective. We now think we'll achieve the majority of our initial 10% reduction target by the end of the calendar year, which represents meaningful acceleration.

As part of our productivity work we've identified additional opportunities to cut costs. We expect over time to be down by more than 10%. But need to balance progress on roll reductions with the need to reverse trends in developed markets and fuel continued growth in developing markets.

Core operating profit continued to improve, growing 4% for the quarter. While not yet where we want to be, we've made sequential improvement throughout this fiscal year with core operating profit progressing from down 4% in the first two quarters to up 2% in the third quarter, to up 4% in the fourth quarter. Core operating profit margin grew 90 basis points, including about 280 basis points of productivity improvements and cost savings. On an all in basis, including restructuring costs, gross margin was down 40 basis points with all in operating margin down 30 basis points. All of the decline in reported operating margin was due to 120 basis points of non-core restructuring investments.

We generated $2.7 billion of free cash flow, with quarterly adjusted free cash flow productivity of 142%. Free cash flow for the fiscal year was $9.3 billion. Adjusted free cash flow productivity was 90%, consistent with our target.

During the fiscal year we returned $10 billion of cash to shareholders, drew $6 billion of dividends and $4 billion of share repurchase. We paid a dividend for the 122nd consecutive year, one of only nine companies to have done this. We increased the dividend 7%. This was the 56th consecutive year we've increased the dividend. One of only six companies to have done this.

Over the last 10 years, P&G has paid out $42 billion in dividends. Excluding $20 billion of share repurchase associated with the Gillett acquisition, we have repurchased $46 billion of stock. In total, through dividend and share repurchase, we've returned $88 billion of cash to our shareholders, which is 90% of reported net earnings. Returning capital to shareholders, through both dividend and share repurchase, remains a central pillar of our efforts to deliver superior returns.

Before I get into the details of 2012, 2013, I'd like to step back and provide some framing. Developing market growth and cash flow productivity were both strong in 2012. Developed market growth and earnings progress were not. Our focused and strengthened 40, 20, 10 plan is designed to restart growth in developed markets, while maintaining developing market growth.

The top four category country combinations are disproportionately developed market businesses. Businesses like North America and Western Europe laundry detergent, baby care, hair care, North American and Western European shave care and feminine care businesses, along with North American oral care and skin care.

We've worked as a leadership team to ensure we have sufficient plans to achieve our objectives in these markets. We're making certain that we have offerings that provide superior performance and value, that our pricing is right, that innovation is strong, that marketing effectively communicates the superiority of our offerings and that there is sufficient marketing support. This will require investment and pricing as I've described earlier, in innovation and in marketing. Advertising spend in developed markets will increase.

Restarting growth in developed markets will have a positive overall impact on profit as these are some of our most profitable businesses. At the same time, we'll begin to earn a return on the developing market investments of the past couple years. As we bring more of the portfolio to bear, as we switch local manufacturing plants on, as we continue trading aspirational consumers up, as accretion from previous entries funds new ones, the developing market margins will improve. In addition to all of this is a five year, $10 billion cost savings program which we are implementing and which is on track.

As I mentioned earlier, we're ahead of target on the overhead portion of this plan and will have completed the majority of it by the end of the calendar year, accelerating its benefit. Also as I mentioned, we see opportunity for further reductions and we'll be balancing those with the need to make top line progress. Our ending point, though, will be greater than a 10% reduction on an apples-to-apples basis.

We already have plans to deliver $1 billion of the $1.2 billion we need in cost of goods sold savings for 2012, 2013 and have established a stretch target of $1.4 billion. The plan includes a 5% net productivity increase across our manufacturing operations, even as we bring on new manufacturing capacity in developing markets. We're expecting significant savings from our ongoing global supply network design, while in the area of transportation, new planning tools and capabilities will improve our vehicle fill rate by 1.5 points. We're planning on material savings driven by reformulation, compaction and innovation.

We've chosen for next fiscal year to prioritize resumption of developed market growth over efficiencies in advertising. We'll still be striving for efficiencies but we'll be investing these back in the business. On a going basis, we would expect these efficiencies to come to the bottom line. In addition to focused and strengthened plans where it matters most, and in addition to our cost savings plan, we're increasing the effort being applied to discontinuous innovation, which Bob will talk more about in a minute.

In a normalized world, in other words absent major exogenous events, we should be poised to significantly accelerate operating leverage and earnings per share growth. And we should be in a position to better withstand exogenous events if they occur, while delivering target levels of earnings growth. One way to think of the growth algorithm is as follows.

If we grow our top line at the current rate of market growth, which is 4%, earnings per share will grow at 4%, assuming no operating leverage or share repurchase. $2 billion in savings per year, regardless of whether they come from cost cuts or operating leverage, create an 11 point earning per share benefit. If we only bring half of this to the bottom line, it would equate to about a 6 point earnings per share benefit.

This 6 to 11 point range of savings benefit would take the 4% earnings per share growth to a range of 10% to 15%. Share repurchase should add another 2 points, taking earnings per share growth potential to a range of 12% to 17%. Developing market profit accretion and any top line growth above market rates, in other words, building market share, would be additive to this. If we delivered two-thirds of the 12 to 17 point range, due to macro impacts or mix, earnings per share growth would be 8% to 11%. That's why we're maintaining our long-term earnings per share guidance of high single to low double digits. And I want to be clear that for us, long-term is 2014.

With that as background, let me turn to 2013. It will take some time to get our plans fully implemented. We won't have a full year of overhead savings, for example, until 2014. Some of the developed market businesses will take some time to right and we'll be investing to do this, not counting on marketing efficiencies in 2013.

There are also significant macro headwinds. Our guidance for 2013 reflects both of these realities.

Fiscal year organic sales guidance is unchanged from the preliminary outlook we provided in mid-June. Organic sales growth is expected to be in the range of 2% to 4%. This is comprised of volume growth of 1% to 3%, pricing contribution of about 2%, and negative mix of around 1%. We expect by the back half of the fiscal year we'll return to modest market share expansion.

We expect foreign exchange will be a top line headwind of about 4 percentage points, based on mid-July spot rates. This brings our all-in sales growth guidance to a range of down 2 to in line versus the prior year.

On the bottom line, we expect core earnings per share in the range of $3.80 to $4. This is the same as the preliminary guidance we provided in June. The growth rate shifts down to minus 1% to plus 4% as the earnings per share over delivery in the fourth quarter 2012 hurts our fiscal 2013 earnings growth rate by about 1 point. As I mentioned earlier, that over delivery was largely taxed, which is not carried forward.

We expect to continue our 56 year track record of dividend increases. The exact amount of the increase is subject to Board approval and will be determined by the Board during the April 2013 Board meeting.

Our plan now includes share buyback of $4 billion in 2013. We continue to value our double A minus rating and are disciplined in managing against it. But given strong cash performance in the last quarter, even lower interest rates, the growing spread between financing costs and our dividend yield, the current stock price and most importantly our growing confidence in our business plan, we've decided to accelerate future share repurchase.

Within our fiscal 2013 guidance, we expect approximately $0.04 to $0.05 benefit from a combination of lower interest expense and higher non-operating income. These benefits will be offset by $0.04 to $0.05 headwind from a higher effective tax rate on core earnings. This earnings per share forecast assumes mid-July spot prices for both commodities and foreign exchange. Foreign exchange rates create a 3 point earnings per share headwind, without which 2013 earnings per share growth would be 2% to 7%. Commodities are up modestly on a year-on-year basis.

There are a couple of significant one-off items included in the guidance. The guidance includes $0.06 per share negative impact from pension and employee benefit plans, as a result of revised assumptions for the discount rate used to value plan liabilities and projected return on plan assets. We're also building about a $0.06 per share impact from the combination of recently imposed import restrictions in Argentina and the carryover impact from mandated price reductions in Venezuela.

To aid transparency and enable more informed decision making, we also want to call out some of the potential risks that are not included in our guidance. As I said earlier, our forecast is based on mid-July foreign exchange spot rates. Potential currency risks include significant dollar strengthening or a large post election devaluation of the Venezuelan Bolivar.

Our guidance assumes current market growth rates. A significant deceleration associated with the European financial crisis or with the fiscal cliff in the United States would put additional downward pressure on these estimates. Last, we're also assuming within this guidance the key provisions of US tax code that require regular extension, including the R&D tax credit and sub-Part F look-through rules are in fact extended.

One additional item not included in our current guidance is the earnings per share impact from our purchase of the balance of our baby care and feminine care joint venture in Iberia, which was announced last month. The transaction is subject to regulatory approval and when completed is expected to result in a $400 million to $600 million before tax non-core holding gain. We expect to complete the transaction by the end of the calendar year. Gaining full ownership of the business will also have an impact on core operating profit results and we'll adjust guidance if necessary as the transaction is completed.

One last proviso on fiscal year guidance. I want to repeat what I said on several previous occasions. We're committed to deliver a plan that creates long-term value for shareholders. We won't chase commodities or currency out the window just to deliver a guidance number. We will execute our plan and we'll do it in the most fiscally responsible way we know how.

Finalizing fiscal year guidance on an all in basis, earnings per share are forecast in the range of $3.61 to $3.85, this includes non-core restructuring investments of $0.15 to $0.19 per share. Including both core and non-core spending, we expect to make restructuring investments of up to $1 billion in fiscal 2013. We expect free cash flow productivity will again be around 90% of net earnings, consistent with our long-term target. This includes a forecast for capital spending of around 5.5% of sales, as we continue to expand production capacity in developing markets.

The July, September quarter will be our toughest, both from a comparative standpoint and from the standpoint of plan momentum, both on top line and as it relates to savings. We're estimating organic sales in the range of flat to up 2%, within this we expect pricing will contribute 3 points to sales growth. Foreign exchange is expected to reduce sales by 6%, which leads to all-in sales in the range of down 6% to down 4% versus year ago. On the bottom line, we expect September core earnings per share in the range of $0.91 to $0.97, or down 10% to down 4% versus base period core earnings per share of $1.01.

On an all in basis, we estimate earnings per share in the range of $0.83 to $0.91. This includes non-core restructuring charges in the range of $0.06 to $0.08 per share. Foreign exchange is currently estimated to have a 5 to 6 point impact on the bottom line in the first quarter, which is driving most of the difficult comparison. July, September volume and sales growth are also the lowest of the four quarters.

For the balance of the fiscal year, we currently expect quarterly organic sales growth in the range of 3% to 4% with modest improvement each quarter as we restore momentum in our top 40 category country combinations. On the bottom line we currently expect core earnings per share growth for the balance of the year in the range of 1% to 6%. The improvement versus the first quarter is driven by the elimination of the foreign exchange headwind, improved top line, increasing cost savings, and the timing of non-operating income benefits.

Now let me turn it over to Bob.

BOB MCDONALD, CHAIRMAN, PRESIDENT AND CEO, THE PROCTER & GAMBLE COMPANY: Thanks, Jon.

The whole P&G organization is committed to generating superior levels of shareholder return. We intend to do this through our commitment to win with consumers, by offering branded products with superior quality and value, and by focusing on our largest and most profitable businesses, and through our $10 billion cost savings program.

We've continued to grow our business during the most difficult economic period since the Great Depression. We've done exceptionally well, growing our top line in developing markets, but have come up short on top line growth in developed markets and on bottom line growth overall. We have implemented three meaningful changes to address our shortfalls.

The first is our 40, 20, 10 focus, focusing resources on the 40 largest and most profitable businesses, many of which are in developed markets, on our 20 largest innovations and on the 10 most important developing markets. As a first priority, we are ensuring that we have sufficient plans to achieve our objectives in the 40 largest category country combinations. We have to make certain that we have offerings that provide superior performance and value, that our pricing is right, that our innovation is strong, and that the marketing effectively communicates the superiority of our offerings, and that there is sufficient marketing support, and we've done this.

The second change is a deliberate refocus on discontinuous innovation. Innovation that obsoletes current offerings and creates new categories and new brands, items like Tide PODS, Swiffer, Crest White Strips, or ZzzQuil. This, of course, comes on top of our commitment to ongoing innovation on our base business. In 2012, we spent more than $2 billion on innovation, 45% more than our next largest competitor. Innovation is at the heart of our business model and at the heart of our Company.

We're focused on driving our top 20 base business innovations like Tide PODS, Always Radiance, Bounty Trap & Lock and Bounty Unstoppables in 2013, and advancing our promising pipeline beyond. Some of our fastest periods of growth and some of our largest and most profitable present day businesses were driven by discontinuous innovation. Disposable diapers, liquid laundry detergents, home care items like Swiffer and Febreze. We need to get back after this in a meaningful way.

In late July we met with our global leadership team to review an increasingly promising pipeline of new category and brand opportunities. While it will take some time to get some of these innovations ready for market, I can assure you we have meaningfully advanced our work in this area over the last year. We should begin seeing the lead items in this portfolio enter the market in fiscal 2014.

The third change is the $10 billion productivity program we announced in February and that we're progressing. As Jon said, we significantly over delivered one piece of this plan in fiscal 2012, reducing enrollment well ahead of targeted levels. In addition to these three changes, we're improving execution in all parts of the Company. Better execution will help us to overcome macro challenges, manage competitive threats, and get the maximum benefit from our innovation, marketing, and productivity programs.

We're also maintaining accountability at all levels. In aggregate, short-term bonus awards will be below target. Three year performance awards are currently tracking to average 35% of target. In the last two years of stock options are currently under water. We all acknowledge this reflects the level and quality of our results.

We have the right metrics to incent results that are aligned with shareholder objectives. Our long-term bonus metrics are simple. Organic sales growth relative to competition, organic earnings growth, EPS growth, and free cash flow productivity, the four drivers of total shareholder return.

We've aligned the entire Company next year on short-term metrics of volume and sales growth, market share, operating profit growth, and productivity, which is delivering against the $10 billion plan, cash flow, and internal controls. These are the metrics that we will measure ourselves against and that you can measure our progress by. We will be updating you on them as the year progresses.

With these changes, we should be poised to seize opportunities for top and bottom line growth, which are meaningful. We have significant opportunity for revenue growth through increased market share on our established businesses, by expanding our portfolio of superior branded products in the most promising markets and price tiers, and by innovating to expand markets and create new ones.

Our productivity opportunity is substantive and the program is in place. This will help us finance top line growth, ensure our consumer value propositions are superior, overcome macro headwinds, and deliver better bottom line growth. We're ahead of our targets to reduce non-manufacturing enrollment and have already identified and staffed $1 billion of the $1.2 billion in cost of goods sold savings we need in fiscal year 2013.

We have taken decisive action, but this company wasn't built overnight. It will take some time to restart growth in developed markets. It will take some time to get the savings program to full run rate levels.

We are committed to doing the job right and are taking the appropriate steps to do this. It will take some investment to ensure our brands are priced appropriately, our marketing plans are robust, and the restart innovation where it's been lacking. We are committed to make those investments, fueled by improvements in productivity and cost. We will move forward with urgency but with balance, balancing developing and developed market growth, balancing top and bottom line, and balancing short and long-term results. I know we will deliver.

One source of my confidence is Proctor & Gamble's long track record of success. Over long periods of time, when Proctor & Gamble successfully executed its business model, it is consistently delivered and it is outperformed. Measuring from the end of each quarter, rolling 10 year returns have exceeded both the S&P 500 and the Dow Jones industrial average in 82 out of 88 periods, or 93% of the time.

In rolling 20 year returns have exceeded both the S&P 500 and the Dow Jones industrial average in 46 out of 48 periods, or 96% of the time. Within this longer term track record, there have been shorter periods, like the last couple of years of under performance. These have typically been followed by periods of strong out performance.

This past track record does not in any way guarantee future success. It does reflect, though, the strength of a time tested business model. Our business model, which Jon described, centered on consumer insights, superior products and compelling advertising, is a time tested model in both good times and bad.

With this model, P&G has built the largest and most profitable household care business in the world. We built the largest, most profitable beauty and grooming business in the world. We've also built one of the largest and most profitable consumer healthcare businesses in the world. With this model, we've created $25 billion brands, the latest being SK-II and Vicks.

In our categories we have three times more billion dollar brands than Unilever, which is our next largest competitor, and more than Kimberly-Clark, Colgate, Beckett, Energizer, Estee Lauder, Henkel, and Church and Dwight combined. The model, when executed, works.

It's working now in developing markets. It's working global globally in Pampers, our first $10 billion brand. It's working in Prestige Beauty, it's working on Vicks, it's working in home care. We now need to more fully fund it through improved productivity and more consistently execute it. It will take some time to get back on the trajectory we want, but I give you my commitment that we will get back on this trajectory. We know it has to be done at Proctor & Gamble and we're taking the right steps to get it done.

One of my greatest sources of confidence it will get done is the quality and capability of Proctor & Gamble people. They are Proctor & Gamble's most important competitive advantage.

Along with our business model, we have a successful time tested people development model. It starts with the very best people. Last year, we had about 1 million applicants for fewer than 5,000 jobs around the world. We give people responsibility, enabling them to develop and we build them into the best leaders in our industry.

This, combined with continued strong progress in developing markets, substantive annual cost savings and a strengthened core, should generate the kind of earnings progress that will put us among the best in our industry. This, combined with our strong cash flow and track record of capital return to shareholders, including the recent resumption in share repurchase, makes P&G in our view an excellent long-term investment opportunity with substantial upside. We look forward to creating significant value for P&G shareholders and we'll be reporting back to you on our progress along the way.

That concludes our prepared remarks. And now Jon, Teri and I would be happy to take your questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions)

Chris Ferrara, Bank of America.

CHRIS FERRARA, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Hi, thanks, guys. Can we talk about mix a little bit, and obviously you've talked I think about long-term you think what the mix effect is on the top line, but bottom line, or gross margin I should say, it's hit you guys by about 200 basis points a quarter. This quarter it dropped to 100 basis points. I was wondering if you could try to frame a little bit, put a little color around, first, that drop from 200 to 100, in the spirit of trying to understand how high that wall is you have to climb on cost savings to get to EBIT growth. And can you talk a little about -- try to take a shot at what you think the long run kind of negative margin mix would be on product and geography. Thanks.

JON MOELLER: Part of the reason for the improvement in the last quarter is that we got full pricing for devaluation into the developing markets and so that mix impact from that disproportionate growth in developing markets was less negative than it would have been prior to that pricing being fully reflected. But also, it also reflects, and this should be something that we continue to see going forward, improved progress and profitability in developing markets behind the things we've been talking about for quite a while, getting local sourcing in place, benefiting from the full scale of the portfolio as it gets put in place. We continue to see really significant trade-up in developing markets, which is also improving margin.

So as those margins improve, the mix impact of disproportionate developing market growth also improves. I don't have a specific number for you, Chris, in terms of what to expect going forward. But we'll try to work on that and give you some dimensionalization of it.

OPERATOR: Bill Schmitz, Deutsche Bank.

BILL SCHMITZ, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Good morning.

BOB MCDONALD: Hi, Bill.

BILL SCHMITZ: Just wanted to ask one question if I could. Will you guys be able to give us the productivity savings in that $10 billion, either every quarter or every year, because I think that's kind of an important thing to track. And then my main question is about 32% of the portfolio had market share flat or up in the quarter, which obviously was a low. We saw a nice uptick in June. Can you give us that metric for the US and then tell us what the US growth was and sort of leaving the quarter, did you see any good signs of progress in the US market share trends?

JON MOELLER: So first, Bill, on tracking the $10 billion. Of course, we'll definitely do that. It will probably be more of an annual or every six month report back, as opposed to every quarter, but we'll definitely do that. And you can imagine, we're doing that internally. It's part of our performance metrics, so we should have that ability. Bob, do you want to comment on market share?

BOB MCDONALD: You're right, Bill, we said that market share was about 33%, one-third for the quarter, but ticked up to about 45% over the last month. And Jon covered some of the progress that we're seeing in market share gains in the US, in the categories where we've taken the corrective pricing action.

JON MOELLER: Or where we strengthened our plans.

BOB MCDONALD: Or where we strengthened our plans.

JON MOELLER: Laundry with the Tide PODS addition, for example.

BOB MCDONALD: Tide PODS, as you recall, added 2.5 points to the share of Tide.

OPERATOR: Dara Mohsenian, Morgan Stanley.

DARA MOHSENIAN, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Hi. First, can you give us your commodity and tax rate assumptions for fiscal 2013? And do you have a total cost savings number for fiscal 2012? Maybe I missed it.

And then the real question, I was hoping for more detail on organic sales growth guidance in Q1, because you sounded pretty enthusiastic that some of the recent strategy changes and price adjustments you've made paid off in terms of improved market share in June. But if you've already made those adjustments and have an Olympic boost, why is top line decelerating in Q1 despite the easier comp and why do you think it will reaccelerate in the balance of the year beyond Q1?

JON MOELLER: Sure.

So first, tax rate for next year, think of kind of 25% to 26%. And as I mentioned in my remarks, we currently see commodities up modestly, so flat to up, probably, less than $100 million next year. Relative to top line sales growth, versus the quarter we just completed we'll have less pricing benefit as we start to annualize some of the price increases that's we've taken. So that's the primary reason you're seeing that, quote, deceleration. And then as we go through the year and the 40, 20, 10 plans are fully implemented, we'll start to see stronger momentum in the out periods. It's not we go from zero to two, to three to four so it's not a massive acceleration. Those are the two underlying dynamics that are driving those trends.

OPERATOR: John Faucher, JPMorgan.

JOHN FAUCHER, ANALYST, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: Thanks.

In looking at the relative success in emerging markets and the problems in developing markets, particularly what appears to be an over reliance on the US from a profit growth standpoint, can you talk a little bit about how you view the role of the GBU? If you look at most of your multinational competitors they do have more of a regional basis for the P&L. How do you guys look at ensuring that all the GBU heads aren't running to the same side of the boat so-to-speak in terms of over relying on the US from a profit growth standpoint?

Thanks.

JON MOELLER: Good question, John.

First of all, I think it's important to know that we have -- it's important to understand how our GBUs are organized. We're really organized as regional business units that report up to a global head, and so we try to maintain that presence at a regional level. And in terms of making sure that everybody doesn't run to the same side of the boat, we have very specific portfolio roles for geographies, both top and bottom line, just as we do with business units. And we manage it that way.

BOB MCDONALD: Also, John, it's important to know that the whole focus on the 40, 20, 10 plan is about making sure we invest and resource our Business where it matters most and that is what a GBU President does. And then of course, there's oversight by the Vice Chairman of GBUs, Dimitri Panayotopoulos, and Jon and I, as we meet with the GBU presidents. So, in terms of a pendulum from one side to the other, or exploiting one geography or another, it's unlikely that would happen.

OPERATOR: Lauren Lieberman, Barclays Capital.

LAUREN LIEBERMAN, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Thanks. Good morning.

I just wanted to ask a little bit about mid-tier innovation. I know as you're sort of talking about refocusing on discontinuous and that whole thing, we will start to see flow through in fiscal '14. One piece that felt missing to me versus your plan laid out a few years ago was more mid tier innovation, but particularly in developed markets. I know there's been a lot in developing. So can you talk about how that may or may not be playing a role in your plans for the top 40 going forward? Thanks.

BOB MCDONALD: Thanks, Lauren. It still is strategic for us to have a full vertical portfolio of offerings in every category. So that is part of our strategic plan and it is part of our innovation program. So for example, in laundry in the United States, you would go from Tide Total Care or Tide PODS on the high end, Tide Total Care being priced about 160 versus average Tide, down to Gain, at maybe 85 index or Era at 65 index in pricing versus average Tide.

So, the same would be true, for example in skin care, with Olay you can buy a product for as much as $6, or you can buy a professional product for as much as $45. So, we want to have a full vertical portfolio and we'll innovate at each one of those price points for the consumers that those products serve.

JON MOELLER: You will see entries, Lauren, in the mid-tier in the year that's coming up in developed markets.

OPERATOR: Nik Modi, UBS.

NIK MODI, ANALYST, UBS: Thank you. Good morning. Just wanted to talk about category growth. A lot of focus on market share. Given the fact that you guys are so big in your categories and typically the leading brand, just wanted to get your perspective on how you're thinking about category growth philosophically as you look to recover the top line.

BOB MCDONALD: We think it's our responsibility, Nik, to grow the categories for exactly the reasons you said. Our retail partners, if you look at the advantaged survey or the Cannondale study, they recognize us having a comparative advantage versus our competition for growing category sales.

So something like Tide PODS, for example, which is the most concentrated form of laundry detergent you can buy, because of that concentration it grows the category. And since we've launched Tide PODS, we've not only grown the share of Tide and grown the share of our laundry category, but we've also significantly increased category growth.

Another example would be the Febreze car strip, which is a new kind of air freshener in the auto category, which has grown the category substantially. When we innovate, when we introduce new items, when we improve the items that are in the market, we work hard to make sure we grow the category.

JON MOELLER: You'll remember back to CAGNY, Nik, we showed a couple slides about our philosophy on developing markets and how it's all about category growth, as a much more important component of overall growth. That continues to be what we're seeing as well. As we bring innovation into developing markets, the majority of the growth is sourced through market growth.

OPERATOR: Wendy Nicholson, Citi Research.

WENDY NICHOLSON, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: My first question is just a little bit of a follow-up, that if you're focusing on the 40 largest businesses and that only represents 50% of your sales, isn't it logical to assume that the other 50% of your sales is probably going to continue to under perform, and so maybe us all focusing on that market share metric, 45% of the business or 55% of the business, maybe that's not a fair indication of how your business is doing. I would imagine 50% is going to continue to really lag.

My other real question is I remember when AG announced his strategy and I think his was top 10 customers, top 10 countries and top 10 categories. Is there -- I remember at the time the customer -- there's a big differential between how much money P&G made or how profitable the business was with some of the top customers, as opposed to the smaller customers, and I'm wondering if that should be a focus now or is there not so much of a spread maybe between what you make in various types of retail channels. Thank you.

BOB MCDONALD: Thanks, Wendy. The top 40, top 20, top 10 process, while encompassing or comprising 50% of our sales and 70% of our profit, there's no intention to just simply disregard the rest of the business. And when you include the top 40, then you include the top 10 developing markets. You've got a pretty good swath of our business. In comparison to the program you talked about with AG, which is really big customers, big brands, big countries, it's the same approach, which is to make sure we focus on where our business matters most, and that's what we're doing.

In terms of profitability at customers, there's really not a difference by customer. What you really see, if anything, is a difference by channel. But I don't -- we treat the customers the same and support, consistent with the Robinson-Patman Act, and support them consistent with our innovations. In fact, right now if you went into virtually any store in the United States you would see a large number of displays of Olympic-featured Proctor & Gamble product. We're in about 4 million stores with displays right now all over the world. And obviously, we work with retailers to support those displays and to sell as much product as we can.

OPERATOR: Joe Altobello, Oppenheimer.

JOE ALTOBELLO, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER & CO.: Hi, guys. Good morning. First question, could you outline some of the changes that you've made internally on the innovation front in order to bring more impactful innovation, more discontinuous innovation to the market quicker. And then secondly, you talked about the increase in advertising investment next year. Just rough estimate, if you could quantify what we're looking at in terms of the year-over-year increase in advertising next year? Thanks.

BOB MCDONALD: Relative to the discontinuous innovation, Joe, we've taken a number of steps. One is we've created a new business creation organization, call it NBC, reporting to Dimitri, the Vice Chairman of GBUs, and also with a lot of oversight from myself. And the whole idea there is to have people working on innovating in the scenes, in places that would fall between the organization boundaries. So for example, a product like Swiffer would involve chemistry, would involve paper technology, would involve apparatus technology. No single GBU would develop that. It falls between the seams so we need people working on that.

Secondly, we put an experienced group president in charge of that organization. It's Jorge Mesquita. Jorge has a track record of having developed a number of discontinuous innovations. When he worked with me I ran fabric and home care, and he led our Home Care business and grew Febreze, grew Swiffer to significant pieces of business for us.

Third is we've funded all this activity and we focused the organization on it. Fourth is we've done work training the organization on discontinuous innovation. We've worked with Clayton Christensen, from Harvard Business School, who has helped us. I think that's about it. There are more things, but they're more minor.

JON MOELLER: In terms of the increase in advertising, Joe, obviously that's something that's somewhat fluid depending on how plans work or don't work, but I would think of it for now as up 30 to 50 basis points.

BOB MCDONALD: There's one other thought. We didn't do it just for discontinuous innovation. As an evidence of our scale of the Proctor & Gamble Company, we've taken a new approach in research and development called transformative platform technologies where we've identified nine technologies that span our business units. Think of these as technologies that are so breakthrough that no individual business unit could afford to invest in them on their own. But on the other hand, the corporation can invest in them. These are like 10-year, 20-year technologies that change the face of our business.

One example of this that you would be familiar with is something called solid state technology. Think of this as two metal rolls that take a substrate between them and change the physical properties of that substrate as that substrate passes between them. And provide either stretch properties, so you would see that in baby care, you would see that in feminine care on Always, on Pampers, but you would also see that in Glad trash bags, the new stretchable Glad trash bags or the new stretchable Glad household bags.

This selfing technology is a technology that no single business unit could create, but by creating it corporately and then putting it out to the business units, it's a great example of the scale benefit derived from our investment in research and development.

JON MOELLER: One clarification point for those who might be confused. We have a -- we're in a joint venture with Clorox on the Glad business, which is why Bob mentioned that.

OPERATOR: Ali Dibadj, Bernstein.

ALI DIBADJ, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & CO.: Hi, guys. Couple things. One is just want to explore the prudence of saying fiscal year '13 is going to be back half weighted. And the fiscal year '14 will return to the long-term growth rate, which would be great. Trying to understand the prudence of that.

I don't get it. I don't get the bullishness around it given some of the fits and starts you've had to face for the past several years. And especially -- and you obviously have to give credit for the track record of the 20-year and 10-year of the Company, but it was a different time. It was a different company. I think you need to do different things than you have done before.

So first question is do you agree that there are different things you have to do? So you have to be more value-oriented. You have to be more in the developing markets, you have to sell beauty, which you didn't really do during that whole time frame. I don't really know what the solution is for beauty. You have to cost cut.

If I were focus on cost cutting for the second part, from all your numbers that you presented. You are very reliant on cost cutting to deliver your numbers. And it's a $10 billion restructuring, which is great. Don't get us wrong, as you know, it was a little late. But that was based on a 5% top line growth assumption. So, that's not happening.

I'm trying to understand, given your reliance there and given kind of the first question which is you have to do things a little differently, how are you going to make up that difference? Have you found big new buckets of cost savings? Because a couple hundred million dollars here and there won't do it, or are you expecting a hockey stick of top line growth to get you to 5%? Are things different, number one. Number two, how are you going to plug the hole on $10 billion, given your top line is not growing the way it was expected to grow?

BOB MCDONALD: We believe the Proctor & Gamble Company has a time-tested business model. It involves superior products, based on superior consumer insight. It involves the five strengths of the Company. Branding, go-to-market, scale, innovation, consumer knowledge. We think those are enduring, just like we think the purpose of the Company is enduring.

What we're doing now is we're becoming more focused and more fit to win in this current environment. That's what our 40, 20, 10 plans are about. That's what our $10 billion cost savings and productivity improvement plan is about. That will be the fuel to growth and the fuel to profit. And that's what our discontinuous innovation focus is about. So we think this time tested business model makes the Proctor & Gamble Company an outstanding long-term investment.

JON MOELLER: Relative to a couple of the other points, Ali, on prudence of first quarter guidance, I don't generally consider whether something is prudent or not. I consider whether it's accurate or not. And that's where we find ourselves. And, we tried to explain why.

In terms of the $10 billion program, I'd say a couple things. First of all, we've tried to very transparently lay out exactly how that number was calculated, and you've rightly described how that's calculated. If you have a different view in terms of what happens with the top line or any component of it, we've given you all the pieces and you can model it any way that suits yourself.

I mentioned in my remarks that we have found, as we've gone through this, additional opportunities to reduce cost. I mentioned that I expected us to be -- or that we would be more than 10% below June 2011 levels on enrollment when we're all done. So we don't -- it's not like we're looking at the $10 billion figure and saying that's it. This is about a culture and a mindset that, as Bob said, and it puts us in a position to be more fit to win in a very difficult economic environment.

OPERATOR: Javier Escalante, Consumer Edge Research.

JAVIER ESCALANTE, ANALYST, CONSUMER EDGE RESEARCH: Good morning, everyone. I just would like to understand better the fiscal '13 plan, basically the financial side and how that jives with your long-term financial and strategic goals. You left 2012 holding or gaining share on 45% of the portfolio. Your strategic target is to gain share on 65%, if I recall correctly. Are you planning to get there by the end of fiscal '13? If so, is the spending to get there budgeted in your plan?

If you can explain the change in the share repurchase issue. You halted it in May and now you're buying it again. You attribute it to a debt rating issue. I don't think it changed that much in a month and-a-half. If you can explain better why that now you are restarting share repurchases. Is it that you consider a structural change in the portfolio and now you're not considering it. If you could explain the share repurchase issue also, as well, it would be very helpful.

JON MOELLER: Sure. Let me start with the math for next year, if you will, and how it squares with both the end of the year we just completed, as well as the subsequent year. We have, as I mentioned, funded increases in marketing support and we have, as I mentioned, funded investments in pricing. So the investments that are required to deliver that growth acceleration are baked in. And that's one of the reasons that the first quarter is what it is, and it's one of the reasons that the overall guidance is what it is.

If you exclude foreign exchange from the guidance, as we mentioned in the comments, we would be at about 2% to 7% earnings per share growth in 2013. That's not significantly off the bottom end of the range that I described for 2014 of 8. And as we get a full year of cost savings in place, for instance from enrollment, as we gain the acceleration in the restarted plans in the developed markets, et cetera, and as we don't have the significant one-time hurts that we have in the current year due to pension revaluation and due to the Venezuela pricing thing, we should get there.

OPERATOR: Connie Maneaty, BMO Capital.

CONNIE MANEATY, ANALYST, BMO CAPITAL MARKETS: Good morning. Some time ago we had calculated that Proctor's overhead cost per employee was about 40% higher than what we saw as an industry average. I'm wondering if you have benchmarked yourselves against the industry and what you think the right metric there would be. And relatedly, it also seemed to me, as we were evaluating this, that it led to some internal gridlock. So as personnel count is being reduced, what are the changes in processes or responsibilities that will make the organization more nimble? Thanks.

BOB MCDONALD: Connie, our core SG&A is around 14.5% of sales, which based on our benchmarking puts us in the bottom half of a 15 company global competitive peer group. Now, within that, there's some diversity. In general, the global beauty companies skew very high on this metric, some as high as 24% of sales. And the mainly domestic household care companies skew to the low end, 9% to 10% of sales.

The beauty companies, because they have counters, they have beauty counselors, that's why they're high. The household companies, some of them go through brokers and don't have sales forces, that's why they're low. But based on our mix of business, which is about 53% household care, 33% beauty and grooming, 14% healthcare, we compare well with the weighted average of our peers.

However, considering our Company's scale, we expect to be better than the competitive weighted average. So, getting to core SG&A of around 12% of sales, we think puts us in the top third of our competitors on an absolute basis and about 350 basis points below the weighted average, based on business mix.

As we go about this work, as you properly pointed out, this is not just about reducing the number of heads. It's about finding ways to do the work differently in order to be more agile. That's one of the reasons we've reduced the number of levels within the organization, the hierarchy. We've talked before about reducing the number of vice chairmen by 50%, reducing the number of vice presidents by 15%, reducing the number of directors. And while we've done that, we've digitized the organization to allow them to operate effectively with fewer -- with less overhead.

We've also been working to make the process from the creation of a product to selling it in the market more linear. During the time of many acquisitions in the past, we became less linear. We had too many hand-offs, too many people you had to check with, and we're going through a process now in our brand building organization of making that much more linear. Those are two examples. A third example is obviously the creation of global business services, which has saved us about $1 billion in back office activities from 2000 to 2012.

OPERATOR: Bill Chappell, SunTrust.

BILL CHAPPELL, ANALYST, SUNTRUST ROBINSON HUMPHREY: Good morning. Just one quick housekeeping, Jon. I don't remember if you said but for the Venezuela, Argentina and the pension issue, is there any one quarter that it impacts, or is it all four quarters? Second, looking at simple changes, any thoughts on another round of compaction? That seems like that would be the easiest way to cut costs and drive sales. It would affect a big part of your organization and I ask that because this seems like the time of the year that if you were going to do it for next year, you would start announcing it.

JON MOELLER: First, on the housekeeping question, the pension impact is ratably spread across the quarters. The Venezuela, Argentina thing is more a front half issue because we anniversary the new law in February in Venezuela.

BOB MCDONALD: Bill, as you would imagine, compaction is always on our radar screen, in our innovation program. It's good for consumers because it helps them reduce the amount of space product takes. It reduces fillers. And it's good for retailers because it reduces the amount of shelf space they have to use. It's good for the environment. It reduces carbon emissions from trucks carrying it around. It reduces ethanol in the environment. We're always looking at compaction. And every one of our innovation programs has some kind of compaction within it.

I would encourage you, when you think about compaction, to think about Tide PODS. It's the most compact laundry detergent available. It's got the highest percentage of actives of any laundry detergent in the market and it cleans as well, if not better, than six competitive products at the same time. So we've just begun the launch. We're going to be rolling it out around the world and that would be a great example of the benefits of compaction.

OPERATOR: Jason Gere, RBC Capital Markets.

JASON GERE, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Thanks. Good morning. Just one thing, looking through your slide deck when you talk about some of the assumptions for the year, you're talking about global market growth of 4% to 5%. Hopefully I'm not wrong here, but I think you guys were talking about 4% over the last couple of months when you gave that number. When most of your peers are talking more cautiously about Western Europe and even the US, it seems like this number's actually elevated a little bit. Just wondering if you can reconcile that.

JON MOELLER: If you think about -- if we just break it down into pieces, what we were seeing before was developed market growth of about 1.5 points. Developing market growth of about 8 points, which got us to 4 on a global basis. What we've seen more recently is a slight uptick in developed, primarily in June, and that's growing now at 2 points. Developing, we've actually seen some acceleration. But it's at about 10 points right now, so that's how you get to the 5.

These numbers are very volatile. They move around all the time. That's why we're describing it as a range of 4% to 5%. So we've seen 5% recently. I don't know that, that necessarily is representative of the future. We expect it to be somewhere between 4% and 5%.

BOB MCDONALD: This is exactly, Ed, why the productivity program is so important. Because should that market growth slip, we still need to have the fuel to invest in innovation and to invest in growth. And that's why we've got the $10 billion productivity program.

OPERATOR: Alice Longley, Buckingham Research.

ALICE LONGLEY, ANALYST, BUCKINGHAM RESEARCH: Hi. Good morning. Could you tell us what the US alone looked like in the fourth quarter? Was volume still down mid single digits and value sales down, say, 2% to 3% here? And then going into the first quarter, are value sales likely to be down more because of less pricing? And then second part of my question is could you comment on the quality of what you're doing to improve your share? And as an example, in blades it looks like your share is improving because of improvement with disposables on much heavier promotional activity, and I'm wondering if that's how you want to gain share.

BOB MCDONALD: Our US business is strengthening, as Jon talked about in his remarks. Some of the activity is correcting price disequilibrium. But it's important that much of it also is innovation and the innovation is also what's driving the improved shares. An example of that would be continued growth on ProGlide, for example, in blades and razors. And we have future innovation coming. So we're expecting the US business to continue to strengthen.

OPERATOR: Mark Astrachan, Stifel Nicolaus.

MARK ASTRACHAN, ANALYST, STIFEL NICOLAUS: Thanks. Was wondering why do you think the decision to focus on your 10 largest developing markets or, as you said, not going into other new markets is the right decision for the long term? Why is it not short sighted where it gives competitors an opportunity to develop beachheads so-to-speak and ultimately put you at a disadvantage where you have to play catch-up again?

JON MOELLER: So fully, fully agree with developing markets being a priority and the strategic imperative as we look forward. We have significant opportunity in those 10 large markets, and by markets, you shouldn't confuse the word market with country. These are often times regions or country clusters where we go to market very similarly, so we refer to them as one market. If you look at what's ahead of us in developing markets, I think it's an incredibly exciting thing for both consumer products companies in general and particularly Proctor & Gamble.

We're looking at population growth to 2020 of 700 million people globally, 95% of which are going to be in developing markets. We're looking at the addition of 1.5 billion middle income consumers, 98% of which are going to be in developing markets. We're, I think, at the precipice of one of the biggest trade-up cycles that we've ever seen. You've got populations growing, income levels, and very aspirational consumers. So we couldn't agree more with the need to be fully present, and we feel comfortable with the top 10 as being actually the way to maximize our presence in those markets. And we'll get to the others as time and funding allow.

OPERATOR: Linda Bolton-Weiser, Caris & Company.

LINDA BOLTON-WEISER, ANALYST, CARIS & COMPANY: Hi. I was wondering, Bob, if you could address just company culture a little bit. I remember when you first became CEO sitting in meetings with you, you talked a little bit about it and how you felt there needed to be some tweaking of the culture. You sounded like a tough guy, quite frankly, that there needed to be -- I forgot your exact words -- but ramifications for non-delivery, et cetera. Can you talk about how the culture has been tweaked a little since you've been CEO, and in what ways you've been happy with the cultural change or not happy, or maybe you think there needs to be more, or just talk about that issue a little bit. Thanks.

BOB MCDONALD: Thank you, Linda. I think we're making progress in making -- in strengthening the culture, and what I mean by that i,s I talked about, in my remarks, accountability. We hold people accountable at the Proctor & Gamble Company. If you remember in my remarks, I talked about bonus programs, paying roughly on average 35% payout. That's a low number. That's painful. I also mentioned accountability in terms of leadership. If you compare the leadership that we have today versus the leadership we had three years ago, you would see substantive changes, particularly in the Beauty business.

I also talked about the need to establish a culture of productivity, something that Proctor & Gamble hasn't had during my 32-year career. We've had periods of productivity improvement but they tend to be one-off or episodic. What we're trying to create now is a productivity constancy, where we constantly work to improve the organization, the organization effectiveness, the leadership of the organization, the way we do our work, so that we can constantly be turning up the money that we need to invest, even in slow macroeconomic environments.

So we're working very hard on the culture. We're working very hard on the leadership of the Company. And frankly, we just all got together a couple weeks ago and I'm very encouraged by the leadership team we have now. In many ways, I think that -- I just wish I had done it three years ago. I think we've got the right team.

OPERATOR: Victoria Collin, Atlantic Equities.

VICTORIA COLLIN, ANALYST, ATLANTIC EQUITIES: Good morning. I'd just like to ask a question about the steps that you're going to be taking to improve and hopefully reaccelerate the volumes in the beauty category. I assume a lot of it is down to the skin care and particularly in developed markets. But just what steps are being taken? Is it simply trying to capture the consumer, or are there other productivity or execution issues that you're taking on as well that you hope to improve things.

Secondly, I want to congratulate you on the Olympics advertising. I think P&G has done a really excellent job aligning themselves with the elite competition. Do you see this making a contribution to sales in the first half of next year? Will there be a second leg of advertising now to link P&G, or link your name to the brands and get the sales up? And is this one of the ways you're looking to raise advertising and also regenerate sales in the developed markets?

BOB MCDONALD: Thanks for the question, Vicky. Relative to beauty, beauty is one of the primary focuses of our 40, 20, 10 focus program. There are parts of our Beauty business globally that we're very happy with, but there are also parts that we're unhappy with. We've talked for some time about Pantene North America. We've talked for some time about Olay North America. And we're working through innovation, through better consumer insights, through better advertising, to improve the results of those brands.

Secondly, on the Olympics, thank you very much for your comments. The Olympic sponsorship is really a terrific example of Proctor & Gamble's scale brought to life. It's the largest multi-brand commercial program that we've ever done. We've got 34 brands and we've got displays right now in more than 4 million stores around the world and it lasts for a six-month period. It started last March, April, as you know, probably with Mum's Day in London and it's going to continue after the Olympics this week. After the Olympics end in the next couple of weeks, we start the Paralympics, which is part of our sponsorship as well.

The program's got a 50% higher return on investment versus our typical single brand program. We've generated a lot of awareness through social media with 6 million views of advertising online so far. And the benefits of the program extend well beyond the London Olympics, as I said. We still expect to fully deliver about $0.5 billion in incremental sales over a 12-month period. And we've consistently demonstrated a 5% to a 20% increase in sales when retailers run Olympic displays. We also have seen a tremendous advantage when our brands are linked back to our Company, the Proctor & Gamble Company.

While this looks like something new, it really isn't all that new. When I worked on a new brand in Proctor & Gamble in 1980, we were allowed to put -- this is from Proctor & Gamble -- on the brand for six months, during the first six months of launch. When I was living in Asia from 1991 to 2001, we ended every ad that we had in Asia with a placard that talked about Proctor & Gamble and improving lives.

And we have experience throughout the world that Proctor & Gamble is the glue that pulls all the brands together, enabling these massive multi-brand merchandising and displays, but also leading to the credibility of the brands and the credibility of the Company. As you can imagine, we researched this in many countries around the world and this is a positive connection. So, we will continue it and obviously we'll review our Olympic effort afterwards, and we'll improve it the next time.

OPERATOR: Leigh Ferst, Wellington Shields.

LEIGH FERST, ANALYST, WELLINGTON SHIELDS: Good morning. My question is about how you're managing your focus your attention on the 10 emerging markets? What changes have you made since you've announced this focus and to what extent are they managed differently from established markets?

BOB MCDONALD: Great question, Leigh. What we do is we get the leaders of the Company together, the GBU leaders and the geography leaders, and we work to put together a total company plan. So for example, if we were introduced -- to introduce a new category in the country, we would look at what other categories face up against the consumer, against the retailer, against the competitor, and make sure that the plan we put in place in that country is synchronized amongst all the business units. We make sure that the strategies are consistent across business units and it's really a matter of trying to bring Proctor & Gamble scale to bear to win in that market.

OPERATOR: Tim Conder, Wells Fargo Securities.

TIM CONDER, ANALYST, WELLS FARGO SECURITIES, LLC: Thank you. Wanted to circle back to the restructuring tracking, just more from a housekeeping item here. It would be helpful, rather than every six months or year, if we could get that on a quarterly basis. Several other companies much smaller than Procter do provide that, that we're familiar with.

The main question though that I have would be related to part of your guidance here, and if you could maybe expand upon it. The share repurchase, when you gave guidance a quarter ago, basically you had no share repurchase for fiscal '13 when you gave some updates before. Now you do, yet the EPS is in essence unchanged. Jon, is that -- has something changed on the expense outlook here to work that dynamic? Is it part of the investment that you've talked about earlier here? If you could just expand on that, maybe give a little reconciliation.

JON MOELLER: Good question, Tim. Basically we haven't built in any significant share repurchase because we haven't finalized the timing of share repurchase. That timing will have an impact on how much earnings per share -- earnings per share benefit is there for the year. But obviously, that provides some degree of flexibility to -- from a lot to a little, depending on when we do it.

There's nothing that's changed in the expense environment. If anything, things have probably improved a little bit. We talked about commodities being essentially flat, whereas when we were talking in Paris for example, we were talking about more of a headwind in commodities. We probably have a little bit more flexibility than we had when we were speaking in June.

OPERATOR: Caroline Levy, CLSA.

CAROLINE LEVY, ANALYST, CLSA LIMITED: Good morning. Thank you so much. I think one of the more interesting questions was on -- focuses was on management because some of the problems that have happened over the last several years have been related to maybe who was running various businesses, and so on.

Can you just run us through, if you think at this point in each of your divisions, you're where you need to be already, are there still going to be some tweaks to leadership? And when you talk about bonuses and compensation, how much do people feel that what they do within their existing business is going to drive their comp versus the total P&G performance? And that sort of talks to the benefit of being one large company versus you're competing against some people who just do oral care, or they just do diapers, or they just do prestige beauty. So how do you get management to do everything they need to do if they feel that maybe the whole compensation structure is -- doesn't reward them for that?

BOB MCDONALD: It's a good question, Karen. I'm happy with the leadership team that we have in place today. Very happy. And as I said, I think if you compared the leadership team we have today versus the one we had three years ago, you'd see significant differences.

Number two, the compensation system of the Company very much favors the shareholder. Most of us have over 95% of our net worth in Proctor & Gamble stock. This company has been a company that, in the early days of the company, created a profit sharing trust program. Basically all of my retirement is based in Proctor & Gamble stock. I have no pension other than Proctor & Gamble stock.

Our medical care is supported by Proctor & Gamble stock. Our bonus programs are based on Proctor & Gamble stock. So our leadership is very, very much focused on total shareholder return and Proctor & Gamble stock, and that's why the comment I made about the payout being only average 35%, that's still going to be paid in Proctor & Gamble stock in restricted shares. So, that's significant.

Secondly, while it is true that part of the compensation program is a mixture of business unit performance as well as company performance, even when we do that metric we have a Company factor in there. And when the leadership team got together last week, we suggested and we all agreed that we focus on seven metrics for the entire organization. And we're doing that. So we're united more than ever before, as I said in my remarks, on those metrics that matter most to total shareholder return. And every leader of the Company is focused on that.

JON MOELLER: Just one other point, Caroline, when you were talking about the challenges of managing a big company as opposed to a smaller, focused company. I think it's important to understand how we actually manage the business, which is actually very focused. The daily business of the Company is managed by leaders of individual business units. They're focused on only one thing. They have one job, growing sales and profit for their business. And they get to do that with all the assets of the Proctor & Gamble Company behind them.

And unlike many of their competitors, they don't have to concern themselves with back office activities, treasury, tax, investor calls. They've got one job. So it's actually a very focused approach and more focused than even some of their smaller competitors.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, that concludes today's conference. Thank you for your participation. You may now disconnect. Have a good day.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
prgml : The Procter & Gamble Company
   IN
i258 : Cosmetics/Toiletries | icnp : Consumer Products | ipcare : Personal Care Products/Appliances
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020120817e8830043a
  


 HD
 Q3  2012 The  Procter  & Gamble Company Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
13,522 words
   PD
27 April 2012
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©012 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good morning, and welcome to Procter & Gamble's quarter-end conference call. Today's discussion will include a number of forward-looking statements. If you will refer to P&G's most recent 10-K, 10-Q, and 8-K reports, you will see a discussion of factors that could cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from these projections. As required by Regulation G, P&G needs to make you aware that during the call, the Company will make a number of references to non-GAAP and other financial measures. Management believes these measures provide investors valuable information on the underlying growth trends of the business.

   TD
Organic refers to reported results, excluding the impacts of acquisitions and divestitures and foreign exchange, where applicable. Free cash flow represents operating cash flow less capital expenditures. Free cash flow productivity is the ratio of free cash flow to net earnings. Any measure described as core refers to the equivalent GAAP measure, adjusted for certain items. P&G has posted on its website, www.PG.com, a full reconciliation of non-GAAP and other financial measures. Now, I will turn the call over to P&G's Chief Financial Officer, Jon Moeller.

JON MOELLER, CFO, PROCTER & GAMBLE CO: Thanks, and good morning, everyone. Joining me this morning are Bob McDonald and Teri List. I'll begin today's call with a summary of our third-quarter results, and Teri will provide highlights for some of our largest product categories. I'll provide an update on our growth strategies in both developed and developing markets, as well as our productivity efforts, and then conclude the call with guidance for the June quarter and fiscal year 2012. We'll take questions after our prepared remarks, and we'll be available after the call to provide additional perspective, as needed. Also, we'll be posting slides containing business segment information on our website, www.PG.com, following the call.

As a housekeeping matter, please note that our results and guidance are now presented with the Pringles business reported as discontinued operations, pending the divestiture of the business to Kellogg. Pringles' sales and earnings are no longer included in organic sales or core earnings per share numbers. Related to this change, we're moving to five reporting segments, with Pet Care now included in the Fabric Care and Home Care segment.

Moving to results, our third-quarter underlying results were within our guidance ranges, organic sales growth was at the low end of the estimates, and core earnings per share were towards high end of the expected range. All-in sales was 2%. This includes the negative 1% impact from foreign exchange. Organic sales were up 3%. Top line growth was broad-based with all five reporting segments growing organic sales for the third consecutive quarter.

January to March results include the impact of business disruption and substantial price reductions in Venezuela, leading up to and following the publication of new price control regulations. In the period leading up to the pricing announcement in Venezuela, it was unclear to the manufactures and retailers what pricing would eventually be mandated. Because of this, many retailers reduced or stopped ordering product to prevent holding inventory at a higher cost than what they would eventually be able to sell the product to consumers for. This significantly impacted our volume in the country during the quarter.

Additionally, when the pricing restrictions were announced, we began reducing prices on our products by as much as 25%. Lost shipments and lower pricing in Venezuela negatively affected third-quarter organic sales growth for the total Company by more than 0.5%. Excluding these impacts, the organic sales for the quarter would have been 4%. This marks our tenth consecutive quarter with organic sales growth in the range of 3% to 5%, averaging 4% over those 2.5 years.

Organic volume was in line with prior year levels. Pricing contributed 5 points to organic sales growth, positively benefiting all five reporting segments. This marks the third consecutive quarter where pricing has added 4 or more points to sales growth and the third consecutive quarter where pricing has been a positive contributor to sales growth in each reported segment. Mix reduced sales by 2 points, due mainly to disproportionate growth in developing markets.

Shifting now to markets. Market growth has been decelerating on a volume basis. Developed markets were down slightly in our categories in the third quarter, reflecting weak economic conditions. North America volume growth in our categories slowed from 1% over the past 12 months to about 0.5% over the past six months, to essentially flat for the past three months. Western Europe remained down about 0.5 points versus prior-year on a volume basis. Developed region market value was up about 2 points on a constant currency value basis, due to pricing.

Markets in developing regions are faring much better. Developing region underlying market volume was up 4% for the quarter, and constant currency sales were up about 10%. We've seen a modest sequential deceleration in market volume in Asia and Latin America over the past 12 months, as more price increases have reached the market. However, the value contribution from pricing has more than offset slower volume growth. P&G global market share for the quarter was down very modestly versus prior year, as share growth in developing markets was more than offset by soft market share trends in developed regions.

Market share was in line or higher in businesses representing about 45% of global sales, consistent with December quarter results. We held or grew share in 7 of our top 15 countries and on 13 of our 26 $1 billion brands. Those who are paying close attention may note that we've increased the number of $1 billion brands from 24 to 26 as Vicks and SK-II each crossed this $1 billion annual sales threshold during the March quarter.

There are a few category-country combinations where we lost significant share, when we increased list prices and competitors did not. We're taking proactive steps to restore the value of our brands relative to competitive offerings in these markets. In early February in the US auto dishwashing category, we effectively reversed the 80% list price increase we took last summer, and in US powder laundry detergent, we introduced bonus packs on select brands and sizes, and notified the trade of our decision to adjust list prices in the summer. We've also taken steps to correct price gaps in the UK laundry detergent business.

There are a few additional category-country combinations where we've lost market share, due to increased competitive promotional activity. In US oral care, we are facing an unprecedented level of promotional spending. Track channel reports for our primary competitor shows 67% of their volume moving on promotion, an increase of 16% versus prior-year levels. The depth of promotional discount was 34% off everyday shelf price, a 43% increase in depth of discount versus prior year.

Our primary competitor in the US blades and razors category has been promoting at extremely high levels on a nearly continuous basis for the past two years, since their last new product launch, increasing the percentage of their volume moved on promotion by more than 50%. While we have grown market share in our top-tier Fusion ProGlide product, which was the number-two innovation as measured by retail sales in North America in 2011, competitive promotion levels have resulted in their top products being priced down to a Mach III level. As a result, Mach III volume and market share have been under pressure. Last, in the Mexico laundry detergent category, one of our international competitors has been promoting at extremely high levels, following a unsuccessful new brand launch.

We recently began announcing our plans to our retail customers to restore relative consumer value in these three categories, and protect our market share position. We expect corrective list price productions and promotional increases to be limited to just a few category-country combinations. I've just talked about six category-country combinations. We do business in over 1000. We do not currently expect a broad-scale reversal of the price increases we implemented over the past five quarters, or those we're implementing right now. We expect to see progressive improvement in market share, as the pricing gaps I've mentioned are addressed. For perspective, if share in the six businesses I've just discussed had been flat or growing during the March quarter, we would have built overall Company market share and held our growing share in businesses representing about 55% of our global sales.

From a regional standpoint, we've been outpaced in North America, as you have seen in recent market share reports. We're prioritizing innovation in this market with items like Tide PODS, Always and Tampax Radiant, Crest Pro Health Clinical, Pantene Ice Shine, Downy Unstopables, Bounty Trap & Lock, Febreze car air fresheners, and Gillette ProGlide Styler. Also, the targeted price adjustments I just described, four of the six are in North America. We're committed to a healthy business in North America, and we'll take the necessary steps to deliver this.

Shifting to the bottom line, core earnings per share were $0.94, towards the top end of our guidance range and in line with prior year levels. Higher commodity costs, the impact of Venezuela pricing regulations, and a higher core tax rate were offset by the benefits from higher pricing and strong cost savings results. Our guidance for third-quarter earnings per share after adjusting for Pringles was $0.89 to $0.95. As we said on our last earnings call and at Cagney, this guidance did not include the impact of price controls in Venezuela, which were eventually announced in late February. We estimate this negatively impacted the third quarter by approximately $0.03 per share.

The quarter also included, though, a $0.03 per share gain in the core tax rate versus our guidance. All-in earnings were $0.82 per share. This includes $0.13 per share of non-core charges, primarily related to restructuring activities. The non-core charges also include final small adjustments to goodwill values for the appliances and salon professional businesses. Core gross margin declined 100 basis points. Pricing improved gross margin by roughly 230 basis points, and savings projects helped gross margin by approximately 130 basis points. These benefits were more than offset by a 230 basis point negative impact from higher commodity costs, and a 210 basis point negative impact from a combination of product and geographic mix.

Core SG&A costs were down 110 basis points, due mainly to top line leverage and 50 basis points of lower overhead cost, driven by productivity improvements. Core operating profit turned positive, growing 2% for the quarter, despite a 3 point negative impact from Venezuela. We've made sequential improvement through this fiscal year with core operating profit progressing from down 4% in the first two quarters to up 2% in the third quarter, and up 5% excluding Venezuela. We expect this metric to improve further in our fourth quarter and again next fiscal year. Core operating profit margin grew 10 basis points, including about 180 basis points of productivity improvements and cost savings.

On an all-in basis, gross margin was down 150 basis points, and SG&A costs increased 70 basis points, with all-in operating profit margin down 230 basis points. All of the decline was due to 230 basis points of non-core restructuring investments. The effective tax rate on earnings from continuing operations was 23.7%. Excluding the impact of non-core items, the effective tax rate on core earnings was 23.4%, which compares to a base period core tax rate of 20.8%. This difference reduced earnings by share by about $0.03 per share, and lowered the core earnings per share growth rate by 3 percentage points.

We generated $2.9 billion in free cash flow in the quarter, with free cash flow productivity of 119%. We returned $3.8 billion of cash to shareholders this quarter through $1.5 billion of dividends and $2.3 billion of share repurchases. Earlier this month, we increased our quarterly dividend by 7%, making this the 122nd consecutive year in which we paid a dividend, and the 56th consecutive year in which the dividend has increased. At the new annualized dividend of about $2.25 per share, our dividend yield is approximately 3.4%. Now, I'll turn the call over to Teri to review some of the highlights of our business results.

TERI LIST, SVP AND TREASURER, PROCTER & GAMBLE CO: Thanks, Jon. As a reminder, I'll not be covering all five of our reporting segments, but rather, we'll cover some of the highlights of our larger categories. For more information on business segment results, please refer to the press release we issued this morning and slides that will be posted on our website, PG.com, at the conclusion of this call. Segment results reflect the dynamics of the macro and competitive environment.

Developing markets continue to perform well, with sales growing double digits for the quarter and value share increasing for the ninth consecutive quarter. A few highlights include India delivering its 39th consecutive quarter of double-digit sales growth, Brazil growing sales over 30%, and building share for the 25th consecutive period, and Russia growing value share for the tenth month in a row. As Jon mentioned, we've had some more specific challenges in developed markets which you'll hear about in the segment discussions.

Starting with the Beauty segment, organic sales growth was 2%, behind volume growth of 1%, and positive pricing of 5%. Mix reduced sales by 4%. At the category level, hair care volume grew low single digits, driven by developing markets. Brazil hair care shipments increased nearly 20% and value share was up more than 2 points, with double-digit volume growth on both Pantene and Head & Shoulders. Greater China hair care volume was up low teens, and shampoo value share grew nearly one point, with Head & Shoulders volume increasing nearly 25% behind a product restage and commercial innovation. India hair care shipments grew more than 50%, with Pantene more than doubling, driven by Pantene sachets.

In developed markets, North America hair care volume was down low single digits. Volume growth on both Pantene and Head & Shoulders was offset by declines in the hair color business, driven by high base period with initiative launches. Pantene shipments were up double digits, behind the launch of the Pantene Ice Shine and Aqualight initiatives, and a refocused marketing campaign. Global skin care shipments were down mid-single digits. Developing markets were about flat. An example of developing markets progress is the Philippines where Olay volume grew nearly 50%, and share increased over 3.5 points behind support of Natural White sachets and increased trial and distribution, but we have some challenges in markets like China.

In North America, volume declined due to significant competitive activity in the mid-price tier. We're taking steps to address these trends by introducing six new items into the mid tier anti-aging and cleansing segment, and starter kits across the Pro-X line up. Also, our new Olay facial hair removal innovation is off to a strong start. Sales are 50% higher than our launch targets, and it has been the number one selling facial skin care item with Hispanics and African Americans.

In the grooming segment, global blades and razor shipments increased low single digits and value share increased slightly. Asia volume was up high single digits, and value share was up nearly 2 points behind Gillette Guard in India, the expansion of Fusion ProGlide into several new markets and overall market growth. North America volume declined mid single digits. Fusion ProGlide delivered strong volume growth behind the launch of the ProGlide Styler, which earned over a 20 share of the razor category after only five weeks after launching. This increase, however, was more than offset by customer inventory adjustments and declines in the Gillette Legacy and Mach III businesses, as competition continued to invest heavily in promotional spending on their Hydro product. As Jon said, we've increased promotional levels in this market to help address this dynamic.

In healthcare, oral care volume was down slightly versus year ago. In the US, volume was flat and share was down. Over the past two years, our US oral care business has delivered very strong volume, share, and sales growth, and as Jon mentioned, has recently been faced with heightened levels of promotional spending. Throughout this, our core business continued to perform well, with Crest 3D White toothpaste delivering its 24th consecutive period of share growth, increasing every month since launch. Additionally, early results show that the March launches of the Crest Pro Health Clinical Regimen and the Crest 3D White Glamorous White toothpaste are off to a strong start. We've also made modest increases to our promotion levels to be more competitive.

Greater China oral care faced a challenging third quarter, with volume down double digits primarily due to an uncompetitive value profile, especially in the premium segment. We expect to see the business begin to recover in the fourth quarter as the price gaps have recently begun to narrow, and as we launched new innovations and implement strengthened marketing plans.

Latin America Oral Care volume grew mid-teens and share was up, behind the successful Oral B toothpaste expansion markets. Brazil toothpaste was over a 6% value share on a national basis, and nearly 11% where it is distributed. In Colombia and Peru, where Oral B toothpaste just launched this quarter, results have exceeded expectations. In the fourth quarter, we'll continue our Latin America expansion, moving into Argentina, Chile, and the high frequency store channel in Brazil. Our European toothpaste expansion markets also continued to deliver ahead of expectations. In the UK, where we launched last July, value share is over 8%, with a positive halo benefit on the balance of our oral care business, driving P&G to the number 2 position in the overall category.

In the Fabric and Home Care segment, organic sales grew 2%. Positive pricing of 7% more than offset a 3% volume decline. Mix was negative too. Global Fabric Care volume declined low single digits. Developing marketing shipments were up low single digits, led by Asia's double digit growth. India Fabric Care volume increased nearly 20%, and share increased more than 1.5 points to 13%, with all price tiers growing. Another driver was Downy Fabric Enhancers, with shipments in Asia up nearly 25% due to recent expansion in Indonesia and Korea.

Developed market fabric care volume was down despite several positive developments this quarter. We're seeing value share growth in US Tide and Downy. Early results in Tide PODS are very positive. After only one month in market, Tide PODS have reached a 67% dollar share of the unit dose category. Shipments are about 30% ahead of our going-in expectations. Downy Unstopables are shipping twice as high as expected. This growth, however has been more than offset by the impact of our uncompetitive prices in US powder laundry and the UK laundry category. As Jon mentioned earlier, we've taken steps to address these situations.

Global Home Care shipments and value share were down slightly versus year ago, with developed market volume declining mid single digits and developing markets growing mid-teens. The Central and Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa region led the growth with volume up over 20% and value share up 1.5 points. The growth was broad based, due mainly to recent category expansions including dish care into Turkey and air care into Eastern Europe.

US air care volume was up mid single digits, and value share grew over 1.5 points behind the new Febreze Car Vent clip, that is exceeding expectations and has reached over 15 share of the car care category. This growth was more than offset by softness in the auto dishwashing category. Jon shared earlier that in February we reversed our previous price increases in this category. We've started to see lower pricing on shelves and sequential improvements in market share trends.

Finally, the Baby and Family Care segment increased organic sales 6%. Volume growth of 3% and pricing of 5% was partially offset by negative mix of 2%. Global Baby Care volume was up low single digits and value share grew over 0.5 points. Developing market shipments increased mid-teens with strong growth across multiple markets. The BRICK markets increased volume by over 20% on average.

In developed markets, shipments declined mid-single digits. North America share increased over 0.5 points, while volume was down, due to the contracting market. Family Care volume was up low single digits, driven by the recent North America launch of the Bounty Trap & Lock technology upgrade. Customer response has been very positive, with increased distribution and record levels of merchandising and display. With that I'll turn the call back over to Jon.

JON MOELLER: Thanks, Teri. Before we discuss guidance, I want to provide some additional perspective on our results. Two of our primary objectives for this fiscal year were to maintain top line growth momentum and to make meaningful improvement in core operating profit growth. On the top line, as I said earlier, this is our tenth consecutive quarter with organic sales growth in the range of 3% to 5%, averaging 4% over those 2.5 years. Over the past four quarters, we've executed nearly $3 billion in price increases and delivered 4% organic sales growth. On the bottom line, core operating profit growth has improved, moving from down 4% in each of the first two quarters of this year to growth of 2% this quarter, which is 5% excluding the Venezuela impacts. We expect further acceleration of operating profit growth in the fourth quarter.

So we've made progress on both of these fronts. The pace of operating profit improvement has been slower than we expected when we began this fiscal year, due primarily to several headwinds including developed market growth rates, competitive pricing and promotion dynamics, foreign exchange, which has been about a $0.5 billion hit since we first provided guidance for the year, and several market level setbacks. We're working to offset these headwinds through innovation, the expansion of our portfolio in developing markets where growth is stronger, and with our significant productivity interventions. I want to cover each of those briefly.

Innovation, as we've said many times, is the best anecdote to sluggish growth in developed markets. We're upgrading existing products with innovations like the Crest and Oral B Pro Health Clinical line up, and a significant performance improvement across the Bounty franchise. Earlier this month, we launched Always and Tampax Radiant, our first-ever feminine care initiative that spans across our total franchise of pads, tampons, liners and wipes. We're launching new forms in current categories with products like Tide PODS. We're entering new categories, with items such as Downy Unstopables in the fabrics and enhancer segment, Febreze Car Air Freshener in the car air care segment, and Olay Smooth Finish in the facial hair removal segment. In June, we will launch ZZZQUIL, Vicks' first entry into the US sleep aids segment of personal healthcare.

We're expanding recent innovations to new markets. In February, we launched [Lenore Aroma Jewel Beads] in Japan, a local version of Downy Unstopables. It quickly grew to nearly a 4% share of the fabric enhancer market. We've now expanded Fusion ProGlide to more than 30 countries across North America, Western Europe and major markets in the CEEMEA region. And through our joint venture with Teva Pharmaceuticals, we've announced plans to expand the Vicks brand to several Eastern European markets in June, including Russia and Poland. These are just a few examples of recent and upcoming product innovation.

P&G innovations continue to lead the industry. As reflected in the most recent IRI Pacesetters report, which ranks new US innovation launches based on dollar sales, P&G had the first and second most successful new initiatives, 3 of the top 10 and 8 of the top 25 non-food innovations in the United States in 2011. For perspective, our six largest competitors had a total of seven innovations in the top 25. Over the 17-year history of this report, P&G has launched 140 top 25 ranked innovations, one-third of the cumulative total for the industry, more than our six leading competitors combined, and five times more than the second-rank competitor.

In addition to product innovation, we've just kicked off the strongest global commercial innovation program in Company history. Last week, we started the worldwide retail activation of our Olympics sponsorship. Retailers around the globe are partnering with us to make this our largest multi-brand commercial innovation. Our online marketing program launched two weeks ago, and last week we kicked off the global Thanks Mom campaign that will build with significant online, on air and in-store events through Mother's Day. Our Olympics program includes more than 30 P&G brands and 150 athletes around the world.

In the US alone, we expect to generate over 5 billion consumer impressions and generate returns on our marketing investments at least twice as high as our normal merchandising programs. Over the course of the campaign, we expect our global Olympics commercial innovation to generate up to $500 million in incremental sales across both developed and developing markets. The combination of strong product and commercial innovation, coupled with the limited pricing interventions I described, should enable us to grow in developed markets despite the underlying market growth challenges.

The second way we'll counter the slowdown in developed market growth is to continue delivering strong growth in developing markets. Our volume sales and market share growth trends in these regions have been very strong, averaging 12% organic sales growth over the past four quarters, and growing market share on a value basis for nine consecutive quarters. We're rapidly expanding our presence in these regions, adding about [15] new country-category businesses over this fiscal year and last. Developing markets will represent about 37% of annual sales and 45% of volume by the end of this fiscal year. We're doing this in part to access faster near-term growth, and in part because we see it as a longer-term growth opportunity.

From 2010 to 2020, the global population is expected to increase by nearly 700 million people, with 95% of this growth in developing markets. Growth will be even faster in terms of wealth. Between 2010 and 2020, 1 billion individuals in developing markets will move out of poverty, earning more than $10 a day, a key take-off point for our product categories. Based on a study published by the OECD Development Centre, the world's middle class will increase by over 1.4 billion consumers by 2020, with over 98% of these people living in developing markets.

The number of millionaire households is expected to increase by more than 200% in developing markets. In the BRICK markets alone, this is an incremental 2 million households at the millionaire level. We're tiering up our portfolios to delight consumers as their wealth increases, and they began purchasing in the premium and super premium tiers, while continuing to attract new consumers into our categories at lower tiers with affordable innovations. There's an understandable question about whether we can be successful in coming from behind in some developing markets. We have good long term success growing in markets where we are coming from behind. In 1991, P&G sales in Asia were $1.5 billion, less than 40% of Unilever sales. In 2001, P&G sales were $4 billion, up to 56% of Unilever size. Today, P&G sales in Asia are over $12 billion, now over 95% of Unilever.

The results have been a question of whether we can achieve this growth profitably. One misconception that feeds the profit question is that developing market consumers are all poor, and that all growth will come at low price points. The BRICK markets actually have fairly well developed premium and super premium tiers. These higher tiers are growing ahead of the overall market in many of the developing countries. For example, in China, the super premium tier, which is already 17% of sales in the market is growing at a 30% pace. Developing market consumers are willing to pay for products they value. The price for products sold in many of our categories in the more developed of the developing markets is as high as similar products in the US.

As we expand our category in price tier portfolios, we develop more scale. Scale allows us to purchase media more efficiently, use our distributors more effectively and leverage the P&G portfolio with customers and consumers. We know from history that developing market growth becomes increasingly profitable over time. In markets such as China, Poland, Russia, Saudi Arabia and the Philippines, where we have built scale through a broad portfolio of products, have local production in place, and compete at multiple price tiers within categories, our margins are roughly in line with the Company average. As a result, we expect our developing market expansions to be profit accretive, not dilutive, over reasonable periods of time.

To make the investments in innovation we want to make, to support our portfolio expansions in developing markets, to overcome macroeconomic headwinds, and at the same time deliver the earnings progress you and we expect, we have to become much more productive. At Cagney, we outlined a five-year plan to save up to $10 billion from a projected cost pool of around $85 billion in fiscal year 2016. We discussed opportunities in nearly every element of cost, from materials and manufacturing to marketing to overheads, and we are moving forward on each of these.

When I discussed cost of goods for the March quarter, I mentioned savings around 130 basis points. This is consistent with the level of savings we expect to deliver on average over the life of the $10 billion program. We've already begun the planning and optimizing that will enable us to generate 10 to 20 basis points of productivity per year for the marketing spend pool. Some would question why we would cut our marketing investments. We're not. We'll grow it significantly, just slightly below the rate of sales growth, and many of the savings will be in non-advertising marketing costs.

Turning to overhead, we've announced plans to reduce non-manufacturing enrollment by 10% over two years, and have already taken the steps that are necessary to reduce enrollment by 3% by the end of this fiscal year. We began to see a portion of these savings in the March quarter, which helped us reduce core SG&A spending by 50 basis points. We've made significant progress on the design work for the additional role reductions that we're targeting by the end of next fiscal year. We're on track to deliver the cost savings objectives we discussed two months ago for this fiscal year and over the five-year period we outlined at Cagney. All in, we believe we have a plan to maintain solid top line momentum, while continuing to improve operating profit.

The headwinds we've had to deal with this year do reduce, though, the amplitude of this improvement, which is reflected in our guidance. For the April to June quarter, we're estimating organic sales growth in the range of 4% to 5%. Within this we expect pricing will contribute 4 to 5 points to sales growth again this quarter. Foreign exchange is expected to reduce sales by about 3%, which leads to all-in sales growth in the range of 1% to 2% versus the prior year. On the bottom line we expect June quarter earnings per share in the range of $0.79 to $0.85 or down 4% to up 4% versus base period core earnings per share of $0.82.

The core earnings per share growth rate includes notable headwinds from the tax rate and non-operating income versus prior year. The effective tax rate in the June quarter of last year was 21.1%, and we expect the comparable rate to be about 400 basis points higher this year. This equates to roughly a 6 point headwind on earnings per share growth for the quarter or about $0.05 per share. Also, non-operating income in the prior year included the sale of a minor brand that added $0.03 to earnings per share, and we're not planning for a similar benefit in the current year. This is an additional 4 point earnings per share growth headwind.

Adjusting for tax and non-operating income headwinds, this quarter's guidance equates to core earnings per share growth in the range of 6% to 14%. As I mentioned earlier, we expect continued improvement in core operating profit, and core operating profit margin. Commodity costs will be a much smaller year on year headwind, as we have finally annualized the majority of the cost increases we experienced over the last year. In addition, we'll have a full benefit of pricing. The net of these impacts, combined with our cost savings and top line leverage benefits, are expected to drive core operating profit growth in the mid single digits to double digit range for the quarter.

On an all-in basis we estimate earnings per share in the range of $1.21 to $1.32. This includes the expected one-time gain of $0.47 to $0.50 per share from the divestiture of the Pringles business to Kellogg, and $0.02 for the operating earnings from the businesses which reported as discontinued operations. We're now projecting that we'll be able to close the Pringles divestiture by the end of our fiscal year, subject to receiving the necessary regulatory approvals. The all-in earnings per share range for the quarter also includes non-core restructuring charges in the range of $0.05 to $0.07 per share.

For the fiscal year, organic sales growth will be approximately 4% for the full year. This is comprised of volume growth of about 1%, negative mix of about 1%, and pricing contribution of 4 points. We expect foreign exchange based on current rates will be roughly neutral to sales growth for the year, leaving our all-in sales growth guidance also at 4% for the year.

On the bottom line, we now expect core earnings per share in the range of $3.82 to $3.88. This compares to a prior range of $3.93 to $4.03, which did not include the impact of pricing controls in Venezuela. The new guidance range includes a negative impact of $0.04 to $0.05 per share due to those pricing regulations. The remainder of the guidance change reflects the pricing adjustments in several categories, the difficult economic environment in Western Europe and the deceleration of US market growth.

The decision to lower guidance is always difficult, however, we have and will continue to make the hard right choices for the long-term health of the business, versus the easy wrong choices which benefit near-term results but which hurt the long-term. We could have waited to address the consumer value issues in the categories I mentioned earlier. We could have scaled back marketing support or trade spending behind new initiatives or delayed new launches to next year. These choice would have helped fourth-quarter earnings, but would have been harmful to longer term growth.

We now expect all-in earnings per share in the range of $3.63 to $3.74. This range includes the expected gain from the Pringles divestiture of $0.47 to $0.50 per share and $0.07 per share of net earnings from Pringles now classified as discontinued operations, non-core restructuring costs in the range of $0.18 to $0.20 per share, and $0.53 per share of non-core charges for impairments and legal items. We continue to expect capital spending in the range of 4% to 5% of net sales, and we're estimating free cash flow productivity that approaches 90% for the year. We'll pay around $6 billion in dividends, and we'll repurchase about $4 billion in stock for the fiscal year.

In summary, we're making progress in a difficult economic and competitive environment. We expect to maintain top line growth momentum, while further improving operating profit growth in the fourth quarter. We're taking the necessary steps to ensure our brands remain competitive in certain category-country combinations, and we are continuing making the investments necessary to deliver our long-term growth objectives while increasing the urgency to deliver near-term improvements in our cost structure. As we look forward to fiscal 2013, we're building our budgets and investment plans with a balanced view of sustaining our critical investments for long-term growth and delivering high-quality operating profit and earnings per share growth at levels consistent with our long-term objectives.

We'll continue to see a strong benefit from the pricing we implemented this fiscal year. The cost savings generated by our restructuring investments and productivity improvements will build as we move through next fiscal year. We'll have a full year of innovations like Tide PODS in the market, and we have a strong slate of new innovations and market expansions coming next year. In addition to these tailwinds, a few of the macro headwinds we faced this year should be less severe next year. For example, while commodity costs will be higher next fiscal year, the increase should be much smaller than we faced this year.

Also, while we are anticipating an acceleration of growth in developed markets, we do not expect them to slowdown further. We will keep updating our assumptions on these macroeconomic factors as we finalize our forecasts for next year. We plan to provide detailed guidance for fiscal 2013 on our next quarterly earnings conference call which is scheduled for Friday, August 3. That concludes our prepared remarks, and now Bob, Teri, and I will be happy to take your questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Your first question comes from the line of Lauren Lieberman of Barclays Capital. Please proceed.

LAUREN LIEBERMAN, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: So in the press release, you mentioned particularly about the change to guidance of the fourth quarter, commodity costs being higher year-over-year, and as I remember, the commodity costs getting easier was supposed to be a big part of the operating margin improvement that we would see in this fiscal year, so when I combine that with just how much more pricing you are taking than the competition, seeing your volumes flat globally and that's the implied guidance for Q4, I can't help but come back to the decision to really not participate in much in the way of hedging. It feels to me like you're introducing more volatility and less predictability in your business than may be necessary, and that may be the case for your competitors. So can you just comment on that and your position around how to manage the costs over time? Thanks.

JON MOELLER: Yes, first, we will prioritize the Management of costs in ways that are sustainable and enduring, and we do that by reducing, by improving productivity and reducing overall costs so we can absorb those cost increases. If we can do that successfully, that stays with us forever. A hedge only benefits us for the duration of the instrument, and as soon as the instrument expires, we're back to the same problem, so we need to be operating the business in a way that overcomes those costs.

We're doing that in two ways. One is through pricing, as you've mentioned. Our levels of pricing aren't that different, at least on a global basis, from the reports that I've seen over the last week. I think Unilever talked about 4.7 points of benefit from pricing. I think Colgate talked about 3 and change benefits from pricing, KC talked about three points of pricing, so we're in the same ballpark as far as that. I'm not opposed to any hedging and when it's appropriate and cost effective, it's something that we'll do, but I'm very focused, more so on long-term sustainable solutions.

BOB MCDONALD, PRESIDENT, CEO, PROCTER & GAMBLE CO: Lauren, this is Bob. I think also it's important to note that we're trying to change the culture of the Procter & Gamble Company to be much more focused on productivity improvement on a going basis, even though we've talked about a productivity program, which is on track by the way, this was something that we're going to all be focused on going forward, so as we continue to grow, we create a Company which is fit to win over the long term, despite growing size, and that's a change for our Company, relative to our historic past, where we have tended to take big one-time restructurings. We want to continue to improve the productivity of the Company going forward.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Chris Ferrara of Bank of America-Merrill Lynch. Please proceed.

CHRIS FERRARA, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: So obviously your share is lower in 55% of categories, but probably much worse in your higher-margin developed markets, and I just wanted to get your color on whether you think these six country-category interventions address the root cause I guess of the broader share weakness in developed markets? Is your premium price positioning in what are still sluggish categories still the root cause, and if not, what is, and what do you do from a bigger picture perspective?

BOB MCDONALD: Chris, we see the root cause in really two ways, and I think Jon mentioned it in his remarks. Number one is the pricing disparities and we talked about the six category-country combinations. Of the six, four are in the United States, and that's where the majority of the share loss was. We think we've corrected those. We're not going to allow competition to buy our share with incremental promotion, or by not following price increases.

The second cause, which also, Jon alluded to was, in some spots, our innovation has been inadequate. This is particularly true in the Beauty category and particularly in North America. We've had some great innovations. Jon talked about the facial hair removal innovation on Olay, but the base brand needs innovation, and that's what we're focused on now. Jon talked about other innovations on Pantene, Ice Shine as being an example. Again, Ice Shine is doing very well, but the base brand needs better innovation, so we're working on bringing those innovations to market, particularly in the Beauty Care area and I think that will alleviate the second cause.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Nik Modi of UBS. Please proceed.

NIK MODI, ANALYST, UBS: Yes, good morning everyone. Just a quick question on the restructuring program, and I guess Jon and Bob, if you think there's disruption being caused within the organization, I know that was obviously a concern of the management team, when you were thinking about doing this. Do you think that this is an issue, and what are you doing to try to limit the impact? Thanks.

JON MOELLER: Nik, as I alluded to in my comments, we really see productivity improvement as part of our work, not as a one-time event, an episodic event. If we're going to continue to grow as a Company, we think that we've got to deliberately work to improve the productivity of the Company, so that we can operate with the agility and the flexibility of a much smaller Company, call it a $10 billion Company. And as a result of that, we have gone through the organization, we've looked at the way we work, we're changing the way we work, and with the changes in the way we work, we're also changing the organization structure.

You've seen some of that already. We have half the number of Vice Chairmen for example, that we had before. We have fewer Vice Presidents than we had before, but the change in the work is really necessary in order to have that agility and speed of a much smaller Company.

At the same time, we're very deliberate and clear on what the strategy is. You've seen some of that work, about how we're going to get more categories into more countries, about how we're going to get a vertical price tier of brands and products in each category, which in many ways is an antidote to a recession-type of economy and we're working hard on that as well as working hard on an innovation program to support all of that.

BOB MCDONALD: In terms of disruption, so far I don't see it as being terribly disruptive. We delivered within our guidance range of both the top and bottom line, maybe not at levels that people would like, but at levels we were planning, and so in terms of being able to execute our plans, I don't see the conflict.

JON MOELLER: The feedback we get from employees in our organization survey that we run every year is they actually welcome this, that they feel like they have too many touch points and so the feedback we're getting from employees is very positive. And remember we're talking about an impact on 10% of our employees, not a higher percentage.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Bill Schmitz of Deutsche Bank. Please proceed.

WILLIAM SCHMITZ, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: So here is my question for you. So has there been a time in the Company's recent history where the advertising ratio has increased, the market shares have fallen? And sort of the follow-up to that is I don't know how closely you follow those Kantar Retailer Power Rankings. P&G is still obviously the leader, but some of those metrics are down about 20 points over the last five years, and it actually kind of corresponds to the share losses. So how much of the retail execution issue are the share losses, and how much of it is that advertising ratio? Because I don't think I can remember a time when the advertising ratio was increasing and market shares came down.

JON MOELLER: First just let me provide a little bit of perspective and Bob can talk about the Kantar metrics. Globally, share is down, but it's down 0.2 points so this isn't a big cliff-type event. Having said that, as we've said, North America is down about 0.6 points and we're working to address that with the interventions that I mentioned, so I want to put the share loss in context. As I said, if our pricing actions are effective in those six product category combinations, we will be back to share growth for the Company. Bob do you want to talk about--?

BOB MCDONALD: Yes, sure. As you mentioned, we also received, obviously, the Kantar Power Rankings, and as you also mentioned, we did maintain our overall leadership position as well as our leadership positions in most of the categories. We really value our work and our strong partnerships, and they often act as a catalyst to drive improvement across our competitive set. And while we're being recognized for our leadership in the rankings, we're certainly not complacent.

We've taken all of the country-category combinations from the Kantar Power Rankings. We've put together action plans to improve them, and we're looking to improve them with our joint value creation plans with customers. I also would draw your attention to the Advantage Rankings, which have come out recently and again showed us well in the lead, shows us in the lead across all categories. But again, we're going through it in a very granular way, looking at countries where we aren't doing as well. And trying to improve those metrics. We had some customer service opportunities that came out, and we're working hard to improve those.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Wendy Nicholson of Citigroup. Please proceed.

WENDY NICHOLSON, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: My question sort of I think follows up on Nik's question and Bob, you used some words. I think, executing the restructuring and promoting productivity is kind of what you get paid to do or it's what your job is. But I guess the way I look at it, there are a couple of things that have gone wrong at P&G over the last year, particularly the price gaps or managing those gaps. Jon you mentioned market level setbacks, I don't even know what that is, maybe it's the Tide PODS delay, but it strikes me that from an execution perspective, P&G is not delivering. And Bob, I'd like your perspective on that. There's so many excuses, not our fault competition didn't follow the pricing, not our fault Venezuela changed, not our fault the developed market consumer isn't robust, but I still say, God, we're going into this massive restructuring program, how do we know this isn't going to be a replay of 2000, where the core business stinks, and you're making huge changes to the organization. And I just say to myself God, where is the mea culpa taking responsibility for the weak numbers, as opposed to saying, not our fault, it's just really tough out there?

BOB MCDONALD: Well Wendy, let me be clear. It is my fault. I am the CEO of the Company. I do take responsibility. I do take accountability, and every manager in the Procter & Gamble Company that was on the call would say the same thing. We do hold people accountable for results, and I take accountability for the results. We are working to improve this Company over the long-term.

We've talked about the headwinds we're facing. We have talked about the steps we're taking. We will deliver. This is a Company that has delivered over 175 years, and we will continue to deliver, and we will get the right leaders in place to deliver and we'll put the right programs in place to deliver. We will do it, and I personally don't think that this restructuring program will get in the way of doing that. In fact, if anything, I think it will enable it.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of John Faucher of JPMorgan. Please proceed.

JOHN FAUCHER, ANALYST, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: Thank you. So if we look at the market share performance since you guys presented at Cagney, and Jon, you said, it's within your guidance range in terms of organic top line but at the lower end of expectations. Is there any thought in terms of how much of the savings that you need to invest back in the business? Has that changed? And I guess that leads to a general thought. With all this promotional talk and everything else like that, is the cost of competing in these categories higher than it has been over the past couple of years? And is that simply because the growth rates have come down, and so everyone is scrapping for sort of each piece of unit volume? Thanks.

JON MOELLER: So first in terms of cost. We put, we will have put $3.5 billion of pricing into the market this year. The roll-backs and promotion increases that I referred to earlier are about between $100 million and $200 million of that $3.5 billion. So it is additional investment back in the business, that otherwise could have come to the bottom line. But it's not significant in the grand scheme of things. The more significant thing is the $3.5 billion in pricing. And I think relative to the costs of doing business, there are two dynamics that are occurring, maybe three. The first is again generally, prices are going up, which is a positive thing and that's true across our competitive set, that's true across markets.

Having said that, the dynamic that you point to, which is slow developed market growth rates leading to a need, if companies want to grow to build share, how does that manifest itself in the marketplace? It's manifesting itself primarily in a good way which is innovation-based competition. We see a growing number of new product launches, for example, on the part of many of our competitors. We do need to respond to those launches, and so that does temporarily increase the cost of doing business, but long-term innovation is good for markets, it's healthy for markets, and particularly some of the innovation at the premium end that we're seeing. So in terms of going forward, how much cost savings will we have to reinvest, that's something we'll have to look at every day and every week, but I still expect us to be able to deliver our long-term earnings per share growth rates net of that investment.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Dara Mohsenian of Morgan Stanley. Please proceed.

DARA MOHSENIAN, ANALYST, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: Thanks. So Bob, it seems like you're clearly struggling with high consumer demand, elasticity, the increased pricing in developed markets and to some extent that's driven by the fact that you operate at big price premiums in the product categories you're in, and that naturally creates some market share issues versus peers and a competitive disadvantage in this weak spending environment. And, given, you're taking higher pricing. So in that context, might it make sense to start to manage developed markets more for profitability than market share, particularly if you need to fund this emerging markets expansion and hit your long term EPS growth goals? Or I guess to put it more simply, gaining market share in this consumer environment doesn't seem to allow you to hit your EPS goals, so it seems like something has to give in terms of your focus.

BOB MCDONALD: Dara, my experience has been that if you're not growing market share, you're declining, and if you're declining you're not too distant in the future going to go out of business. So I think in any business, we always try to grow market share. In fact our goal is to grow our top line 1 to 2 points above the market, and we should be able to do that. We should develop the ideas and the innovations that enable us to do that. And 1 percentage point growth in North America or Western Europe is as you would guess a multiple percentage point growth required in developing markets, so these are still incredibly important markets to us, and that's why we're reacting to the price differentials that we see in the six category-country combinations that Jon mentioned.

JON MOELLER: And in terms of being able to do that, both in developed and developing markets, and having the financial flexibility to make those investments, while delivering earnings per share expectations, is exactly the motivation behind the $10 billion productivity improvement program. We realize that the equation doesn't square currently, and that's the game-changer that should allow us to get there. That's in its infancy. As you know, we talked about it for the first time a couple months ago, but we feel very good about the progress on that and are committed to it for exactly the reason that you described.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Javier Escalante of Consumer Edge Research. Please proceed.

JAVIER ESCALANTE, ANALYST, CONSUMER EDGE RESEARCH: My question is in line with Wendy's a little bit. Do you think that this is purely a spending issue because the categories you flag basically oral care, razors, et cetera, accounts for only 10% of sales. So what is happening to the other 90% of the portfolio? With the exception of baby and family, all of the other GBUs are underperforming peers that are growing organic sales 5% or better, so to what extent you are really in a position of start balancing top and bottom line growth as soon as the fourth quarter, which is where your guidance still implies. To what extent this execution is holding back growth, and to what extent you're going to be thinking whether you'll have the right GBUs leadership and whether you should be looking outside Procter in GBUs that have underperformed for several years, like Beauty? Thank you.

BOB MCDONALD: Javier, when I answered the question earlier, I said that there were two issues. One was pricing, and one was innovation, and we're working on both of them. And when I talked about Beauty, I talked about the innovation program, which we're working on and we'll bring further innovations to market. Again, I believe that we can grow market share, particularly behind innovation, which is our life blood and I believe we can grow the top and the bottom line at the same time. As Jon mentioned, the productivity program is an enabler to do that.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Connie Maneaty of BMO Capital. Please proceed.

CONNIE MANEATY, ANALYST, BMO CAPITAL MARKETS: Good morning. Given the earnings shortfalls for the last couple of years, I'm wondering if the growth you've generated isn't a better indication of what the Company's growth really is as opposed to what the forecasts and the guidance almost hope they would be. And then as the follow-up to that, when would you see the inflection point? When are you seeing the opportunity for the restructuring to start to kick in to produce better results, and the shortfalls in sales and profits in some of your core businesses to end. When do you see that coming?

JON MOELLER: So first of all on this question of should we just use the recent past as a more indicative indicator of the future, doing that would ignore I think some very important things. One is, that will require an assumption of ongoing commodity cost increases of $1.8 billion a year, and that's not what we're assuming. We're assuming much more modest increases based on current market spot rates. It would ignore the $3.5 billion of pricing that we've put into the market that will get the full-year benefit for next year. Those are two, and that would ignore also the intervention we're making on productivity and cost savings.

So those three things definitively change going forward, much more, not completely, but a much more benign commodity environment, the benefit of the pricing, and the benefit of the productivity savings. And that's what gives us confidence that we will grow operating profit and earnings per share. You're starting to see some evidence of that in operating profit, even in the last quarter, albeit minor. We're talking about mid-single to double-digit operating profit growth in the fourth quarter, those same three drivers are what will deliver that, and we're still in the planning process for next year, but our targets obviously are to get back where we need to be.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Joe Altobello of Oppenheimer. Please proceed.

JOE ALTOBELLO, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER & CO.: Just wanted to get back to the commentary regarding the deceleration in growth in North America. You guys mentioned macro, and the macro has been an issue for some time now, and I'd argue at least some of the data we've seen has been better, moving in the right direction. So I'm curious, is there something else besides price elasticity, are consumers not impressed with the level of innovation they are seeing in the categories? Are they shifting spending out of your categories to other categories? Is it something else that you haven't talked about? And then secondly, obviously it's early for fiscal 2013 but could you give us a thumbnail sketch of where our heads should be for next year? Thanks.

BOB MCDONALD: Joe, we have seen a deceleration in category growth in the United States since January, and that has shown up in the share reports and the other reports that we get. I think what's happening is, obviously, you've got a higher fuel price, you've got other macroeconomic headwinds like housing and other things. You read about these as well as I do, but again, a reduction in growth in the markets is not an excuse for us not to be able to grow above the markets. Our goal is to grow 1 to 2 points above market growth, and that's what we're planning to do.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Ali Dibadj of Sanford C. Bernstein. Please proceed.

ALI DIBADJ, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & CO.: Just one quick housekeeping question and then the real question. The housekeeping one is, if you could just help us a little bit on Venezuela. It was an issue for you, not for anybody else, and it sounds like it's disproportionate to your exposure. So that's housekeeping. But the real question is, and actually building on Wendy's, I think, very appropriate question, look on this call, if you think about it, you have a bunch of investors who are choosing or not to choose to own companies, choosing to own or not to own companies. And I wonder how you explain to them, and frankly the Board, that Unilever Personal Care grew 10%, J&J Skin in the US grew 6.3, Colgate grew 6.5%, Kimberly grew 6, all organic, all with better profitability, supposedly not through price gaps, because it sounds like that's a minor issue, and I'm not sure you can use geographic mix as an excuse anymore. So I'm just trying to understand how long do you expect investors to wait? How long does your current plan have to work? How much patience does the Board have? And look, you may say it's already working and I respect that. There are some signs of that, but your stock hasn't shown it, and your results versus peers haven't shown it. And frankly your peers will probably step it up, as well as you step it up so just trying to get comfort about that whole issue.

BOB MCDONALD: Ali, the examples you mentioned were primarily in beauty care, and as I said, we are unhappy with our innovation program in beauty care and we have work to do. Obviously, we've under performed in beauty care for some time now. We've worked to improve the innovation program. It does take some time, but I think you'll see sequential improvement quarter-to-quarter as we go forward in beauty care. We have reviewed this within the Company, and within the leadership of the Company, and we're working hard on doing that. If you look outside the United States, because primarily a lot of the problems we have are in the United States, there are points of light, and Jon covered those in his prepared remarks. Nevertheless, we've got to improve the innovation program in beauty care and primarily in the United States.

JON MOELLER: And on the housekeeping question, Ali, we went out of our way at Cagney to point out, to point to the fact this could potentially be an issue. We had no way to dimensionalize it, because we didn't have the legislation in our hands. It's different for different companies, because the price reductions that are mandated by the legislation are different by category. It's also different for different companies, based on how they're choosing to respond to the new regulation. We took the course of action, right or wrong, as soon as the regulation was published to comply. Others may make different choices. And it's not hugely significant for us, but we thought it was important to point out, just on the basis of ensuring everybody had the same information and on the basis of transparency.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Bill Chappell with SunTrust Robinson Humphrey. Please proceed.

BILL CHAPPELL, ANALYST, SUNTRUST ROBINSON HUMPHREY: Just wanted to follow-up on the blade razor business and just trying to understand the price change now. With Hydro being out for the past two years I don't think Energizer has held up on being promotional and aggressive, what's changed over the past few months, why you need to make this, and why are we finally being more aggressive in that market? And then just as a clarification, did you say that there were only six out of a thousand price country changes, or just six that you've highlighted? Thanks.

BOB MCDONALD: There were six where we felt we needed to go back and take corrective action and those were the six that Jon talked about. The promotion levels of competition in the blades and razors category have been high and have accelerated as well. And that was the reason we felt the need to have that be one of the places that we tried to repair the value equation for our consumers.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Jason Gere of RBC Capital Markets. Please proceed.

JASON GERE, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Thanks, good morning. I guess I want to talk a little bit about innovation and considering that you guys lead your broader categories with innovation, how do you think about setting innovation at the right price points? IE, is it too expensive in this economic back drop considering that consumer spending may not get back to where we were years ago, consumers have made difficult choices to trade down. So I'm just wondering, not just in beauty but just broadly as you look at the US and Western Europe, how you're setting the prices out there, and whether or not you feel that's the appropriate measure at this point? Thanks.

JON MOELLER: Well, as I said earlier, we believe in innovation. Innovation is the primary way we accomplish our purpose of improving lives. We spend about $2 billion a year in research and development. We spend $0.5 billion a year in consumer knowledge. The $2 billion a year in research and development is about 50% more than our next largest competitor. We believe in innovation, and we believe that's the way we improve lives, and we sell product, and we make profit.

The way we think about innovation is not that we just innovate for the premium tiers or even not that we innovate for the premium tiers and dilute the product for lower price tiers. We believe that we innovate for each discrete level of the price tiers. So while we're innovating on the high end and US laundry with Tide Total Care, let's say which is a price index of 160 versus base Tide or Tide PODS, we're also innovating on Gain, on Era, which are brands that are priced significantly lower than Tide. So we try to innovate for each consumer need at each discrete level of the economic pyramid.

BOB MCDONALD: I think to the question of were there a meaningful set of consumers that are responsive to the premium tier innovation, there continues to be a strong response. Some of our best innovation, as measured by sales, have been in the premium tier, whether that's Tide PODS, albeit it's still early there, but Fusion ProGlide, Crest 3D White so we're not seeing an absence of consumer interest in premium innovation.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Alice Longley of Buckingham Research. Please proceed.

ALICE LONGLEY, ANALYST, BUCKINGHAM RESEARCH: I have questions about the fourth quarter, and then separately on innovation. I'll give you the innovation one first. You have highlighted weakness in beauty care and the need to do more innovation for the baselines for Olay and Pantene. We've been hearing this for I think more than a year. Do you agree that you're too slow for innovation, and can you explain why you've been so slow, and can you tell us when we start getting significant innovation there?

And then on the fourth quarter, we understand commodity costs are worse than you originally thought, but do gross margins still go up in the fourth quarter? The comp is easier. That's the first question on the fourth quarter. Also, on the fourth quarter, will promotions take more off of sales than a year ago, and then they have been? And the third question on the fourth quarter is, will your ad ratio be still flat for the year or will it be up? And will it be up in the fourth quarter? Thanks.

BOB MCDONALD: Alice, on the rate of innovation or the speed of innovation, certainly we would always say that we would like to be faster than we are. If you look at the innovation process, we've shortened the time recently, for example, by using more modeling and simulation, which helps us speed the process of innovation. And we're applying those tools that help us speed the process of innovation in the beauty and grooming categories, as well as other categories. 80% for example, now, of our innovations have some form of modeling or simulation, which eliminates the needs for the creation of bench scale prototypes which speeds the innovation process.

You will be seeing incremental innovations over the coming months. I don't want to disclose them, because obviously our competitors will have access to this information. But as Jon laid out, in the last year, on average, we've had about the same number of IRA Pacesetters, the largest sellers in the United States, as we have in previous years. We're not happy with that. We want to go further, and we want to go faster, and you will see that.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Tim Conder of Wells Fargo Securities. Please proceed.

TIM CONDER, ANALYST, WELLS FARGO SECURITIES, LLC: Thank you. I'd just like to echo a couple of the earlier comments, Wendy and Ali here, the competitors seem to deal with the sluggish developed markets very well, and very profitably. Yet as they use promotions effectively to maintain and improve margins, you have major issues to maintain your share without rolling back the pricing or aggressively using promotion to push out material margin improvement. And it seems one of execution, you've got some innovation in general that you are getting paid for, but broadly, you're not. And then maybe is it too broad of a marketing focus on the feel good versus the key core brands, and do those seem to be potentially two of the underlying issues here? And then separately, more from a housekeeping ongoing perspective, with the restructuring, it would be very beneficial, I think, as you go forward each quarter, to lay out here is how much we did in restructuring, here are the savings for that, so that we can track the progress versus the benchmark of the whole program. Thank you.

BOB MCDONALD: Thank you, Tim. We're obviously working to grow share in developed markets and to do it in a profitable way and I've talked about how we're going to do that. And again, the best way to solve this, or to answer your questions, or Wendy's, or Ali's is to deliver the results and that's what we're focused on.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Mark Astrachan of Stifel Nicolaus. Please proceed.

MARK ASTRACHAN, ANALYST, STIFEL NICOLAUS: Thanks. Curious about commentary that marketing investment was reduced in the March quarter. Why was that? And then relatedly, the spread between price and volumes has widened to the largest gap in recent memory. I guess the question is, how long is that sustainable and what prevents you from completely repositioning pricing going forward to try to stimulate volumes to go to the opposite end of the spectrum? I know it's drastic, but what prevents it?

JON MOELLER: Well first on the marketing point, I'm not recognizing that point. We didn't decrease marketing spending in the quarter we just completed, so I'm not quite sure where that reference comes from, but I'd be happy to follow-up. If there was a reduction, it was very minor, but there was no step change for sure.

BOB MCDONALD: And on the pricing point, I mean quite frankly, I've talked about $3.5 billion of pricing offsetting $3.5 billion of commodity cost increases. I think if we can make it work, staying with that is a much better option than reversing all of that. It gives us much more pricing flexibility. As I mentioned earlier, we really don't, except in a few cases, see ourselves out of step with the balance of competition as relates to the amount of pricing that's going into the market. But again, where we lose significant share as a result of that, we will take action as we have done.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Linda Bolton-Weiser of Caris & Company. Please proceed.

LINDA BOLTON-WEISER, ANALYST, CARIS & COMPANY: Hi. Just is another question on the topic of innovation. I guess I think of true innovation as something that adds unit volume growth to a category. You give the consumer an additional item to buy within the category, the way fabric softener was added to laundry many years ago and teeth whitener was added to oral care, et cetera. Can you give examples, it doesn't seem that really anything that's come out of Procter in the last few years is that kind of true innovation. And is that the way you think of true innovation in terms of being able to grow categories?

And then secondly, on the mix, the negative mix that we've seen as a trend, it seems that's more related to innovation than maybe -- it seems there's been more of a discussion of the geographic mix, influence on the mix. Maybe more of it is from the lack of innovation? As we're seeing such negative mix in beauty care of negative 4%. Can you maybe comment on, is there some way to quantify, is there really more of it from lack of innovation versus geographic mix or am I thinking of that the right way? Thank you.

BOB MCDONALD: Linda, in Jon's remarks, we talked about innovation. We think of innovation holistically. In other words, we think of innovation as everyone's job, innovation in marketing, innovation in product. Jon talked about the fact that we've upgraded existing products like Crest with Crest Pro B Health Clinical line up, the new Bounty technology, Always and Tampax Radiance. But also we believe in entering new categories, and Jon talked about the fact we introduced Downy Unstopables which has increased the size of the fabric enhancer category. We talked about Febreze Car Air Freshener, which is increasing the size of the air care category. We talked about Olay Smooth Finish in the facial hair removal area, which is a new and better product for facial hair removal. So, we talked about ZZZQUIL, which is a first entry for us into the sleep-aid segment. So we do believe in expanding categories and we do believe in discontinuous innovation that even creates new categories, where categories don't exist. And that's the kind of innovation that we need, in order to grow our business over the long term and globally.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Leigh Ferst of Wellington Shields. Please proceed.

LEIGH FERST, ANALYST, WELLINGTON SHIELDS & CO: Thank you. I wanted to take another stab at the question about pricing. I'm wondering if, in a world of instant communications and mobile apps et cetera. it might become more difficult in the future to take pricing. How do you look at that?

JON MOELLER: Well, pricing is one aspect of consumer value. There are lots of different aspects of consumer value. For example, I talked about a retailer where I was in the store, and the retailer was telling me their average transaction size was $12 for every shopper who shops in their store, and then we went and we checked the average transaction size for Tide PODS, and that retailer was selling the $19 size. Which means consumers are seeing tremendous value in Tide PODS, it's much more than just price, and we have proprietary ways that we measure that, so that we have a relatively good estimate when we go to market as to what would happen. We're also working in consumer applications, and working in digital technology, to make sure that we create a relationship with the consumer, and to let them know the value of our products before and when they are in the store.

BOB MCDONALD: I think that's our last question. I want to apologize because there were a couple of parts of questions that we didn't get to, either as a new caller got brought online, or as we just didn't make it there. I want to be able to answer all of your questions, and so please don't hesitate to follow-up with us, and we'll do that. So my apologies on a couple of those.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, that concludes today's conference. Thank you for your participation. You may now disconnect. Have a great day.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
prgml : The Procter & Gamble Company
   IN
i258 : Cosmetics/Toiletries | icnp : Consumer Products | ipcare : Personal Care Products/Appliances
   NS
c151 : Earnings | c22 : New Products/Services | ntra : Transcript | c32 : Advertising | c15 : Performance | c31 : Marketing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020120511e84r0053d
  


 HD
 Q2  2012 The  Procter  & Gamble Company Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
11,863 words
   PD
27 January 2012
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©012 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good morning. And welcome to Procter & Gamble's quarter-end conference call. Today's discussion will include a number of forward-looking statements. If you will refer to P&G's most recent 10-K, 10-Q, and 8-K reports, you will see a discussion of factors that could cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from these projections.

   TD
As required by Regulation G, P&G needs to make you aware that during the call the Company will make a number of references to non-GAAP and other financial measures. Management believes these measures provide investors valuable information on the underlying growth trends of the business. Organic refers to reported results excluding the impacts of acquisitions and divestitures and foreign exchange, where applicable. Free cash flow represents operating cash flow, less capital expenditures. Free cash flow productivity is a ratio of free cash flow to net earnings. Core EPS refers to earnings per share from Continuing Operations excluding certain items. Core operating margin and core operating profit growth refer to operating profit and margin excluding certain items. Core effective tax rate refers to the effective tax rate adjusted for certain items. P&G has posted on its website, www.PG.com, a full reconciliation of non-GAAP and other financial measures.

Now, I will turn the call over to P&G's Chief Financial Officer, Jon Moeller.

JON MOELLER, CFO, THE PROCTER & GAMBLE COMPANY: Thanks and good morning everyone. Joining me this morning are Bob McDonald and Teri List. I'll begin today's call with a summary of our second quarter results. And Teri will provide highlights for some of our largest product categories. I'll provide some perspective on our revised outlook for the second half of the year. And I'll conclude the call with guidance for fiscal year 2012 and the March quarter.

We'll take questions after our prepared remarks and we'll be available following the call to provide additional perspective. We will also be posting slides containing business segment information on our website, www.PG.com following the call.

Our second quarter underlying results were in line with our going-in expectations. Organic sales came in at the midpoint of our estimates, with core earnings per share towards the high end of our guidance. range. All-in sales growth was 4%.

Organic sales growth was also 4%, as foreign exchange had essentially neutral impact on the quarter. Top line growth was broad-based, with all six reporting segments growing organic sales for the second consecutive quarter.

Organic volume was up 1%. This was on the low side of our expectations, due mainly to a mid single-digit volume decline in developed markets. Developed market volume was negatively affected by weak economic conditions and pricing taken to offset higher input costs.

We continue to see strong growth in developing markets which are delivering high single-digit volume growth for the quarter. Pricing contributed 4 points to organic sales growth, making this the third consecutive quarter where pricing has added at least three points to sales growth. Pricing was up in all six reporting segments. Mix reduced sales growth by 1%, due mainly to the disproportionate growth from developing markets.

We're pleased with these top-line results, particularly given the developed market dynamics. There's been little to no growth in our categories in developed markets. In fact, market sizes are actually down in several big category country combinations, such as laundry detergents in the UK, diapers in the US and Japan, and shampoos in many Western European countries.

We've been able to offset this with the progress we're making in developing markets. We've consistently delivered high single to low double-digit organic sales growth in these markets. And their importance to P&G's global business is increasing rapidly.

Just five years ago, developing markets represented only 27% of our global sales. They grew to 35% last year, and they should reach about 37% of sales and about 45% of volume by the end of this fiscal year. Importantly, they have accounted for more than 80% of our organic sales growth so far this year.

We're growing share and building scale in these fast-growing countries. Our BRIC markets have averaged double-digit top line growth for the past two years. Our top 11 emerging markets have added about 0.5 share point for the past 12-, 6- and 3-month periods.

We've expanded our portfolio to roughly 40 new category country combinations in developing markets over the last 18 months with 10 more scheduled for the balance of this fiscal year. Recent expansions have included Safeguard in Africa, Downy in Indonesia, and Oral-B in Nigeria. And we'll be continuing our Oral Care expansion with Oral-B toothpaste in Colombia, Chile, Argentina and Peru in the next few months.

Despite the macro challenges, we have numerous opportunities for growth in developed markets. As I mentioned, some big categories are declining. But others, such as toothpaste and shampoos in the US and UK, are still growing at a mid single-digit pace.

The antidote for slow market growth is innovation. We'll continue to leverage successful innovations such as Crest 3D White, Downy Unstoppables and Fusion ProGlide. We'll also drive growth with commercial innovation, such as our global multi-brand Olympus campaign.

We'll continue to field strong marketing programs. In addition we will continue to fill in white spaces in our developed market portfolios to compete in both more super premium and value priced peers. Our objective is to continue growing share, and through this growing sales in developed markets. But we're real realistic about the challenges that exist.

Global market share for the quarter was essentially in line with prior-year levels. We held or grew share in 9 of our top 15 countries, 3 of our 6 reporting segments, and on 11 of our $24 billion brands. Market share was in line or higher in businesses representing about 45% of global sales. This is a reduction from the roughly 60% level we've seen over the last several quarters.

As we've noted on many occasions, we expected a fair amount of market share volatility, given the amount of pricing we've been implementing. And considering that P&G has often been the first manufacturer to raise prices in many categories. In most cases, we expect the share impacts to be temporary, as our competitive price gaps are now slowly narrowing.

In a few cases, such as auto dish washing and laundry powder categories in the US, we have announced corrective actions to ensure our brands continue to be an excellent value for consumers relative to competitive offerings.

Shifting to the bottom line, core earnings per share were $1.10, towards the top end of our guidance range. This represents a decline of 3% versus the prior year as the impact of higher commodity costs and a significant tax rate headwind more than offset the benefits from solid sales growth and cost savings. Results also included the impact of the divestiture of the PUR business.

All-in earnings were $0.57 per share. This includes $0.53 per share of non-core charges, primarily to write down goodwill and certain intangibles in the appliances and salon professional businesses. The impairment charges are one-time and non-cash in nature. They are the outcome of an annual discipline process we undertake to assess the goodwill and intangibles carrying value of all of our businesses and brands.

In each of the last two fiscal years, we've highlighted in our annual report -- in last year's report it's on page 49 -- and in our 10-K, that the appliances and salon professional businesses had a heightened risk of future goodwill and intangibles impairment.

Both of these businesses have been negatively impacted by the weak economic environment. Both businesses are in high-priced discretionary categories where market sizes have been declining. And both have a portfolio mix skewed very heavily toward the Western European market. In fact, around 50% of sales from each business are from Western Europe. About 2.5 times more than the average business in our portfolio.

While still positive, we reduced our forecast for out period growth, which leads to reduced intangibles and goodwill value. These charges do not diminish the strategic attractiveness of these businesses or our commitment to them.

Moving back to the drivers of our core results, gross margin declined 210 basis points. The combination of pricing, cost savings and fixed cost leverage improved gross margin by roughly 310 basis points. These benefits were more than offset by a 300-basis-point negative impact from higher commodity and energy costs, and a 220 -basis-point negative impact from geographic and product mix.

SG&A costs were down about 50 basis points on a core basis, due mainly to sales growth leverage and a reduction in overhead spending. Core operating profit margin declined 160 basis points due to the reduction in gross margin.

The effective all-in tax rate for the quarter was 36.7%. An unusually high rate due to the nature of the non-core charges affecting the quarter, the majority of which are not tax deductible. Excluding the impact of non-core items, the effective tax rate on core earnings was 24.9%, which compares to a base period core tax rate of 22.3%. This difference equates to $0.04 per share headwind on core EPS growth for the quarter.

We generated $2.4 billion in free cash flow, and we returned $2 billion of cash to shareholders this quarter through dividends and share repurchases. At the current annualized dividend of $2.10 per share, our dividend yield is approximately 3.2%.

Now I'll turn the call over to Teri to review some of the highlights of our business results.

TERI LIST, SVP AND TREASURER, THE PROCTER & GAMBLE COMPANY: Thanks, Jon. Similar to last quarter, I won't be covering all of the details of our six reporting segments. But instead will review highlights from some of our larger businesses. For more information on business segment results, please refer to the press release we issued this morning and slides that will be posted on our website, PG.com at the conclusion of this call.

Starting with the Beauty segment, we delivered organic volume and sales growth of 2%. Retail Hair Care led the growth with organic volume up mid single digits and global volume share up slightly. Asia share was strong and broad based, with volume up mid teens and value share increasing nearly 1 point. India Pantene shipments increased over 80%, behind Sachet distribution expansion into 2 million stores in the first five months of launch. China Head & Shoulders shipments were up over 25%.

In developed markets, North America Hair Care faced high levels of competitive promotional spending, leading to a mid single-digit shipment decline. We launched both product and commercial innovation on Pantene and Head & Shoulders this month which have generated a positive response from customers and consumers.

Global retail skincare shipments were about flat. Asia volume increased mid single digits, fueled by growth in our recent expansion markets, including India, South Korea, Vietnam and Malaysia. The North America business continued to face challenges with high levels of competition, predominantly in the mid-price tier where Olay has less shelf presence. The brand is introducing new products to better compete in this fast-growing segment of the market.

In the Grooming segment, blades and razors volume increased low single digits. Central and Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa shipments increased double digits, largely behind the expansion of Fusion ProGlide which is now available in over 30 markets around the world. In Western Europe, value share was flat but volume declined high single digits in a contracting market. In North America, Fusion delivered strong results, growing share by over 1 point.

This gain was offset by losses in Mach3 and the legacy Gillette business as we continue to face high levels of competitive promotional activity. We recently began conversations with customers regarding how we will support all tiers of our blades and razors portfolio.

In the Health Care segment, Oral Care volume was down low single digits. North America volume was about flat as the Business indexed against a very strong base period and faced significant competitive pressure. We're very encouraged that, despite the highly promotional environment, Crest 3D White continued to grow with value share up over 0.5 point versus year ago.

Globally, our Oral-B t toothpaste expansion markets delivered results ahead of expectations. Brazil toothpaste value share grew for the 11th consecutive quarter. UK toothpaste share is over 7%, and Belgian toothpaste value share is over 18%, up 6 points versus year ago.

All of our Wave One markets have achieved double-digit share. And as Jon mentioned, we're continuing the Oral-B toothpaste expansion. We started shipping in Colombia earlier this month, and we will launch in Chile, Argentina and Peru in the near future.

In the Fabric and Home Care segment we delivered organic sales growth of 5%, behind flat volume, mix [er] of 1%, and a pricing benefit of 6%. Global Fabric Care shipments were flat, with developing markets growing mid single digits, and developed markets declining mid single. Asia led the growth as India delivered a second straight quarter of laundry shipments increasing over 25% with growth across the portfolio. China also delivered a strong quarter, growing share behind the Ariel upgrade and relaunch in November.

Fabric Care developed markets were a story of mixed results. On the positive side, French volume grew high single digits, and Ariel delivered record value share of nearly 25%. US Downy grew value share nearly 1 point behind Downy Unstopables.

However, both the UK and US laundry markets lost share as we faced consumer value disadvantages from price increases we took last calendar year. Pricing intervention plans in powdered detergents have been announced to the trade and we expect to regain volume and share growth with a strong innovation program planned for laundry over the next 6 to 12 months.

As many of you know, we'll begin selling Tide Pods in less than one month. Due to a combination of increased customer demand and manufacturing challenges, we're beginning with a shelf-only launch, and we'll add merchandising during the back half of the calendar year. We expect Tide Pods will be one of our top initiatives this year and potentially the biggest launch in the US consumer products industry.

Global Home Care delivered solid results. Shipments increased low single digits, and we held the global value share with four of five regions flat or growing. The main challenge for the business is the US auto dish category where we increased prices last June by 8% on average.

Since this time, the consumer value versus competitive products has been outside of our tolerance range, and we've seen share losses of more than 7 points. This is not something that we are willing to accept and we have taken corrective action.

In December, we announced to the trade that effective in February, we will be reversing our price increase on the Cascade business. This is disappointing but necessary, to protect our competitive position. We will aggressively pursue cost savings to help maintain structural profitability in future innovation plans.

Finally, the Baby and Family Care segment increased organic sales by 6%. Volume and mix were flat. And pricing contributed 6%. Global Baby Care delivered strong results, with value share up nearly 1 point as we leveraged the strong portfolio we have established.

Central and Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa grew value share by nearly 1.5 points by focusing on a strong three-tier portfolio, supported by equity building and commercial and product innovation.

Asia also had strong growth, with share increasing nearly 2 points. India Pampers shipments grew 50% behind a combination of market growth and the most significant product upgrade since we introduced the brand in 2007. In developed markets, North America volume declined modestly due to a contracting market. However, US value share grew over 1.5 points, led by the premium tier.

Overall, our large businesses delivered solid results in a tough environment. We're taking the necessary steps in developed markets to restore growth in categories where consumer value issues or portfolio gaps have led to market share declines.

Our progress in developing markets is offsetting these issues. While this creates a near-term mix headwind on the top and bottom line, the scale we're building in developing markets through innovation-driven growth and category expansion will help improve the profitability over time.

I will now turn the call back to Jon.

JON MOELLER: Thanks, Teri. Before I get into guidance, I want to talk a little bit about what we're seeing in the environment that we're operating in. As you saw in our press release, we have tightened our fiscal year sales guidance and reduced our earnings per share guidance. Foreign exchange has been a strong headwind.

When we set our initial guidance for the year, we expected foreign exchange to add 2% to 3% to top-line growth. This range has declined by 3 to 4 percentage points, which equates to roughly $3 billion in sales, or a negative earnings impact of $0.15 to $0.18 per share.

Since the beginning of the year, the ruble, the zloty, the real, the peso, and the Turkish lira have all moved significantly, depreciating between 10% and 20% against the dollar. These currencies, along with the pound, account for the vast majority of the earnings impact since our initial guidance for the year. Historically, when foreign exchange rates have moved significantly in a negative direction, we have received a meaningful offset from declining commodity costs. This has not been the case this year.

Across our total basket of material and energy exposures, we've seen little change to our going-in expectations of $1.8 billion before tax of higher input costs. We have seen prices soften for some commodities, like pulp and natural gas, but these benefits have been largely offset by increases in other materials such as surfactants, alcohols and other chemicals, and direct costs such as diesel fuel.

The overall economic environment in developed markets is weak. On a unit basis, market growth has decelerated over the past 12, 6 and 3-month periods in both Western Europe and the US. Europe is now likely in recession. Growth in Japan is negative. And GDP in the US is growing, but slowly.

A related dynamic that's having an impact is the disproportionate growth coming from developing markets. While aftertax margin levels for our developing markets are only modestly lower than the developed average, the absolute profit per unit is lower. The resulting mix impact on profit per unit is contributing to our revised outlook.

We're also facing some market-specific impacts including government pricing interventions being made in Venezuela. Because of the uncertainty leading up to an eventual announcement, some retailers have stopped ordering for fear that they will end up with inventory that costs more than the price the new laws may allow them to sell those inventories at.

We've also had to pull out of Syria following the tightening of US sanctions. And we continue to monitor developments in other Middle Eastern and North African countries. As we've seen these dynamics unfolding, we considered a number of actions that could have helped us maintain our prior guidance range.

For example, we could have delayed Oral-B toothpaste expansions in Latin America. We could have cut advertising aimed at building consumer awareness of Tide Pods this quarter. We could have significantly reduced our marketing and in-store investments behind the Olympics, or we could have delayed important R&D investments.

However, as we have said many times, we're going to balance our objective of making meaningful near-term improvement in operating profit growth, with our objective of maintaining the investments necessary to sustain growth beyond just the next few quarters.

That doesn't mean we're standing still. To help manage the dynamics I have just discussed, and to ensure we can meaningfully grow operating profit, we're strengthening our commitment to the four priorities we set for the organization at the beginning of this year.

Our first priority is maintaining our top-line growth momentum. Overall we're pleased with our results here. Against the backdrop of a weak macroeconomic environment in developed markets, we have averaged 4% organic sales growth over the last nine quarters. As we look forward, we expect continued growth, with developing markets like Latin America and Asia leading the way, offsetting lackluster growth in developed markets.

Our second priority is to execute our pricing changes with excellence. We're also pleased with our progress in this area. Overall, we've implemented about 80% of the pricing we expect to take this fiscal year. There are still several new businesses and markets in which we'll be taking price increases to offset higher input costs or foreign exchange impacts.

Also, as I mentioned earlier, there are a few categories where we will be making some corrective adjustments. But these adjustments will have a minor impact compared to the $3.5 billion of increases we will take this year. Pricing will continue to be a significant driver of organic sales growth for the next several quarters.

Our third priority is improving productivity in all that we do. Our productivity and restructuring work are focused on three main objectives, ensuring we have the right resources in the right places, increasing our agility and speed to market, and driving cost savings. We're taking an aggressive design-based approach to drive productivity improvement. This approach is necessary to get resources in the right places and increase our agility.

Several recent decisions we've made flow directly from this design work. We are reducing the number of technical centers we operate globally. And are opening new technical centers in developing markets. Such as the new facility we're building in Singapore and the expansion of our R&D center in Beijing. These steps expand the number of technical resources operating closer to the sources of growth in our industry.

We're consolidating our supply planning activities into central hubs, including one we opened earlier this year in Cincinnati. We just announced an outsourcing arrangement for US in-store detailing work to several partners who are experts in this area. These efforts will improve speed and agility, improve supply chain efficiency, and ensure our brands continue to have excellent presentation during promotions and on shelves while reducing costs.

We're examining all areas of costs in every business, including product design, manufacturing, logistics and marketing spending. We're also reducing travel costs by leveraging technology, and conducting more virtual meetings as we coordinate work across regions of the world.

One of the largest opportunities to better leverage our scale and drive simplification is in the overhead organizations that account for slightly more than 40% of Company-wide enrollment. Our organization design work has identified the opportunity to reduce enrollment in these areas by about 3%, or 1,600 roles by the end of this fiscal year.

We'll achieve this objective through the combination of selective hiring, normal attrition, and our restructuring efforts. The reductions this year should yield annual savings of around $240 million before tax.

Our efforts to reduce costs in non-manufacturing portions of the organizations will go beyond this fiscal year. We'll share more specifics on the overall scope of the productivity improvements and resulting savings at the CAGNY conference in three weeks.

We're committed to work to get the right resources in the right places, improve our agility and speed, and deliver meaningful cost savings. This savings work will deliver the fuel for reinvestment and innovation and portfolio expansion, and it will be an important driver of high-quality earnings growth.

The first three priorities focus on top-line growth and productivity improvement, leading directly to our fourth priority, which has been to restore solid operating profit growth. As a result of the pricing we've taken, as a result of easing commodity cost comparisons, and as a result of our productivity and cost savings effort, we expect second half core operating profit growth of 10% to 15%.

Let me now turn to guidance. On the fiscal year we're tightening our organic sales guidance range to growth of 4% to 5% versus our prior range of 3% to 6%. This tighter range reflects the fact that we're halfway through the fiscal year. We estimate the net impact from pricing and mix will contribute between 2 to 3 points to sales growth for the year.

Within this, we expect pricing and lower promotion levels will add roughly 4% to sales growth. And that mix will continue to be a headwind of 1 to 2 percentage points. We expect foreign exchange will be a negative 1% to sales growth for the year based on current rates. This brings our all-in sales growth guidance to a range of 3% to 4% for the year.

On the bottom line, we're adjusting our guidance range for core earnings per share to $4 to $4.10 versus our prior range of $4.15 to $4.33. Our new range equates to core EPS growth of 1% to 4% versus prior year core earnings per share of $3.95.

We're maintaining a relatively wide core earnings per share guidance range due to several uncertainties, including underlying market growth rates, input costs, and foreign exchange impacts. This range does not include a potential impact from the Venezuelan review of industry pricing levels, as it's still very unclear what degree of effect this may have on our results.

We now expect all-in earnings per share in the range of $3.85 to $4.08. This range includes the expected gain from the Pringles divestiture of $0.55 to $0.65 per share, as we're maintaining estimates on the assumption we will close the transaction within this fiscal year.

All-in earnings per share also includes non-core restructuring costs in the range of $0.15 to $0.18 per share. And the $0.52 per share of non-core charges for the impairments and the legal items in France. We continue to expect capital spending in the range of 4% to 5% of net sales, which may result in free cash flow productivity somewhat below our typical 90% target level.

Our plans to utilize our free cash flow remain unchanged. We expect to pay around $6 billion in dividends. And we estimate share repurchases will be in the range of $4 billion to $5 billion for the fiscal year, a modest reduction in the range, consistent with our new earnings outlook.

For the second half of the fiscal year, we expect significant improvement in operating profit and operating margin, though we're now planning for a more gradual improvement than we predicted earlier this year because of the macro factors I talked about earlier.

On the top line, we expect organic sales growth in the range of 4% to 5% for the second half. We're forecasting strong growth in developing markets, driven by our innovation and expansion plans. We're continuing, as we've talked, to globalize our Oral Care business with new launches in Latin America.

We're investing to expand distribution to more stores in developing markets and improving the quality of that distribution. We have a major Bounty initiative launching in February. And we remain very excited about Tide Pods, which will be available nationally in three weeks.

We also recently kicked off the first elements of our global marketing and in-store plans for the Olympics. And you'll see more and more multi-brand advertising and promotional activities as we get closer to the summer games in London. Our objective for the Olympics is to generate $500 million in incremental sales. Finally, as I mentioned, pricing will continue to be a significant contributor to sales growth in both developed and developing markets.

On the bottom line, our new guidance translates to back half core EPS growth of 4% to 9%. This includes roughly a 600 basis point earnings per share growth rate headwind from the difficult tax comparison. Equalized tax rate core earnings per share growth will be in the range of 10% to 15% in the back half.

As I mentioned, operating profit growth is also expected to be in the 10% to 15% range, which translates to core operating margin growth of 150 to 250 basis points for the second half. The primary driver of the improvement is the combined benefit of higher year-on-year pricing and much more favorable commodity cost comparisons.

For perspective we expect year-on-year gross margin to swing from a significant negative in the first half to a significant year-on-year positive in the fourth quarter. Also, the benefits from our productivity and cost savings work will accelerate in the second half.

Moving to the January-March quarter, we're estimating organic sales growth in the range of 3% to 5%. We expect continued strong benefit from pricing in the March quarter, similar to what we delivered in the December quarter. Foreign exchange is expected to reduce sales growth by approximately 3 points, which leads to all-in sales growth in the range of flat to up 2%.

On the bottom line, we expect to deliver a meaningful improvement in operating profit and operating margin despite lower gross margin and a negative impact from foreign exchange. The year-on-year commodity cost challenge will begin to dissipate in the March quarter.

To be clear, input costs will still be up in the third quarter but we're beginning to catch up to the high base period levels. This dynamic, along with the recent pricing we've taken, and our ongoing cost savings efforts, will help reduce the pressure on gross margin.

Solid operating profit essentially will be fully offset by a difficult tax rate comparison. The effective tax rate in the March quarter of last year was 21.1%. And we expect the comparable rate to be between 500 and 600 basis points higher this year. This equates to roughly a 7% headwind on earnings per share growth for the quarter, or about $0.07 per share.

We expect March quarter core earnings per share in the range of $0.91 to $0.97. Or down 5% to up 1% versus base period core earnings per share of $0.96. At an equalized tax rate, this equates to core earnings per share growth in the range of 2% to 8%. On an all-in basis, we estimate earnings per share in the range of $0.81 to $0.87. This includes expected non-core restructuring charges of approximately $0.10 per share for the quarter, as we expand the implementation of our organization design work.

In summary, we're making progress in a difficult economic and competitive environment. We expect sequential improvement in operating profit growth from the second to third quarters. We'll see an even larger improvement as we move from the third to fourth quarters behind the easing of input cost comparisons and the full benefit of pricing.

We are continuing to make the investments necessary to deliver our long-term growth objectives. While also increasing the urgency to deliver near-term improvements in our cost structure.

That concludes our prepared remarks. And now Bob, Teri and I would be happy to take your questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). John Faucher of JPMorgan.

JOHN FAUCHER, ANALYST, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: Thank you. Good morning. Jon, in terms of looking at this, this is the second year in a row where you guys have back-end loaded the year and then had to take a step back and reduce some of the profit growth estimates. And I understand it's a volatile market out there. But can you talk a little bit about how you're viewing the role of productivity going forward in terms of maybe sort of minimizing some of these shocks? And are there any lessons learned from this as we look out in terms of your ability to sustain, let's say, a certain growth rate? Or do you think it's just more of the macro environment? Thanks.

JON MOELLER: The link between heightened efforts on productivity and the desire to be able to deal with the kind of volatility that we're managing through, is the right link to draw. We're going to stay focused on this. We think there's significant savings to come from this. Again, we'll talk more in detail about that at CAGNY. And that should give us the ability to deal more effectively with the volatility that we're experiencing.

In terms of predictable growth rates, I think we've grown very predictably on the top line. The bottom line, really, as you indicate, has been a function of macro effects. Whether it was commodities last year, the combination of commodities and foreign exchange this year. We'll work hard to offset them through increased productivity. But what we can't do is reduce spending to offset these costs in a way that harms the long-term trajectory of the business.

OPERATOR: Nik Modi of UBS.

NIK MODI, ANALYST, UBS: Yes, good morning, everyone. Just wanted to get some thoughts. The guidance reduction seems heavily, obviously, FX related. But I'm haunted by the last time you guys took a lot of pricing and the competitors either didn't follow or you took too much and had to come and reverse several quarters later. So can you just talk about that dynamic and how much flexibility you have to deal with that, just in case you need to close price gaps more broadly? Thanks.

BOB MCDONALD, PRES., CEO, CHAIRMAN, THE PROCTER & GAMBLE COMPANY: Nik, we talked about the fact that we've taken about $3.5 billion of pricing. And that there were three category/country combinations where competition didn't follow and we felt the need to react to that, to regain the value equation. And in Jon's remarks, we talked about those reversals or reactions not being material to the $3.5 billion increment. And so that's what we've seen so far. So I think you'd have to say that, overall, we were successful in executing the pricing that we wanted and we feel good about what we were able to achieve. Having said that, there are these three instances where we've had to take some action to return the value equation.

JON MOELLER: I'd just add two things. One is that, while it's a significant amount of pricing, the percentage increase that we're talking about this time around is much less than occurred last time. So the pricing gaps as they open are nowhere near as significant. The second important difference between this cycle and last cycle, if you recall, as soon as we got prices up, commodities started to roll over. That's not what we're seeing now. So in terms of both the macro dynamics and in terms of what we're seeing in the marketplace, we feel like we're in reasonably good shape.

BOB MCDONALD: I think the only other thing I would add is, as Jon said, we're growing share now, or in line share with about 45% of our business. Back in AMJ of 2009 that number was more like 25% of our business. So we've been able to continue to hold the market share. Certainly, we would like to be up to 60%, which is what we hold ourselves to. But 45% is not bad, given that we've always said that the October, December quarter would be the most volatile and would be the most difficult during this fiscal year.

OPERATOR: Chris Ferrara of Bank of America.

CHRIS FERRARA, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Hi, thanks. Good morning, guys. I guess developed category volume continues to be weak. You guys are clear about that. And not really getting better. And obviously emerging markets have helped. But in the context of developed markets weakness, can you talk a little bit about what the top-line growth composition might look like in the long-term? Specifically, absent volume growth.

And can you use pricing as a tool in a more proactive way than you have? Or does a weak economic environment and competition really make that unrealistic? Can you break out what you think pricing versus volume will look like, avoiding even giving an absolute range? What do you think the composition of that top line could look like as we go three to five years out?

BOB MCDONALD: We're going to continue to grow the top line and we're going to continue to grow the market share, Chris. As you know, our top line goal is to grow 1 to 2 points above the market. And the antidote, the way to do that, is to have a full portfolio of offerings from premium price to low price. I think our laundry category in the US is somewhat instructive of this, where we've got Tide Total Care, the best aggregation of technology you can get in the laundry category, at a price index of about 160 versus average Tide, all the way down to Era, which can be anywhere from an index of 65 to 85. And we're innovating on that business by introducing pods and doing a number of other things on other brands.

So for us, we want to grow 1 to 2 points above the market. We want to do that with a full portfolio. And there's certainly indication that, for example, on Crest 3D White is a good example, that even though you're premium priced, if you're offering a superior value to consumers they will continue to buy it. So innovation becomes very critical to the future.

JON MOELLER: I think if you think about a more normalized environment, remember, the volumes are being impacted by a significant amount of pricing. I'd see volume as a bigger contributor going forward than it has been certainly in the last quarter. Call it 2 to 4 points. And I think there is some inherent pricing power in many of our businesses. And we're going to be working on more routine discipline in terms of pricing.

So hopefully that will continue to contribute positively going forward. And then we're going to continue to have some mix drag just from the disproportionate growth in developing markets. So I think if you go back to our historic range of 4 to 6, or call it 4 to 5 top line, a good 3 to 4 points of that will be volume on a going basis, and then we'd have some mix and pricing help. And that's, of course, a global number.

OPERATOR: Lauren Lieberman of Barclays Capital.

LAUREN LIEBERMAN, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Thanks, good morning. Just wanted to follow up on the commentary that you said you saw some of the price gaps starting to narrow. And the expectation that this is somewhat temporary. Because I couldn't help, but I went in the press release and I counted, and seven times you guys mentioned competitive activity or value differences. And that, combined with the mid single-digit volume decline in the US, it just feels like a pretty significant expectation of things getting better pretty quickly. And then again with the 45% of businesses holding or maintaining share. So can you just give me a few more examples on what really changes sequentially? Or where are you already seeing things getting better from a competitive standpoint that can make you comfortable with that outlook? Thanks.

BOB MCDONALD: I think, Lauren, as I said earlier, the fact that we've taken so much pricing, $3.5 billion, and that we've got these very isolated discrete instances where competitors haven't followed price increases. Maybe if I get granular on those, it will show you how the balance seems to be going well. In most of the markets, competitors are raising prices. Certainly pricing is at the discretion of retailers. But in others, they haven't. So in the UK, for example, we've continued to see deep discounting from Unilever on both the hair care and laundry categories. In UK laundry -- and remember, we came from behind in the UK in laundry, UK is Unilever's home market -- we were up to 55-plus share. Unilever's average retail price is now down about 5% over the past six months, where our average price is up about 4%.

In US auto dish category, Reckitt's not increased prices. And, again, we're the market leader. In fact, they've increased their trade spending in tracked channels by more than 40% versus the prior year, since we increased prices in June of 2011. In US laundry, our average Tide powder pricing is up double digits versus year ago. While Church & Dwight's average powder pricing is down low single digits. On liquids, we continue to see heavy promotional activity from competitors, while the average Tide liquid pricing is flat versus year ago. While we can't discuss unannounced plans on particular brands, we're closely monitoring these situations and we're going to react. In fact, we've already announced, as Jon said in his remarks, a price increase rollback on Cascade in North America to deal with the situation on Reckitt. And we have plans moving forward on the other disparities I discussed.

JON MOELLER: If you think about the timing of when we've taken pricing, Lauren, a lot of this occurred September, October window. And we've talked before about needing really six months to understand how it's going to sort out. We've seen a number of competitors, and I won't name country categories, recently take pricing. So that gives us encouragement going forward.

I think if you listen to the remarks of both Colgate and Kimberly, which you obviously have, those remarks are indicative of an environment that requires pricing. And we've actually had some competitors -- Energizer is an example -- take another round of price increases, which we're now following. So it would take me a long time to take you through, obviously, category by country across the world. But we are seeing positive development,in the last month or two, which does give us confidence.

OPERATOR: Bill Schmitz of Deutsche Bank.

BILL SCHMITZ, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Good morning. So you're blaming the categories in the US. But it gets a little bit frustrating because your market shares are so high. And the old P&G would have committed itself to expanding the categories. And I know it's a different environment partially. But what do you think the issues are, the challenges, in actually driving category growth through real discontinuous innovation? Because it doesn't seem like we've seen a lot of that recently.

BOB MCDONALD: Bill, I agree with you that discontinuous innovation is important to grow categories in developed markets. I would argue with you in a bit that you're not seeing it. In fact, we just announced the launch of a Febreze auto product which gets us into category in fragrances in automobiles that we've never been in before. And this product takes advantage of our proprietary superior technology in fragrance that I think will be a big hit and will remake the category. So we're really excited about that. But certainly we have dedicated more resources to discontinuous innovation because we recognize the importance of that.

Of course, Tide Pods is another example where we're in the midst of the introduction of Tide Pods. Which will be expansive to the laundry category in the sense that it's priced higher on a per use basis. As well as it's the most condensed laundry product you can buy so it's going to be much better for the environment. And, as we said earlier, we expect it to be about 30% of the category. But we're working on more innovation, as well.

OPERATOR: Connie Maneaty of BMO Capital Markets.

CONNIE MANEATY, ANALYST, BMO CAPITAL MARKETS: Good morning. I'm having a really hard time reconciling the $0.15 to $0.18 hit from FX. When the fiscal year started, you were looking for 2% to 3% positive. And in the last quarter you went to neutral without changing the outlook. Now it's down 1% for the year and it's $0.15 to $0.18. Somehow it doesn't make sense.

I'm wondering if you can give us the breakdown between the transaction and translation impact? Because a lot of us have been adjusting for FX as rates have changed. A change of this magnitude is just not gelling. So some help there would be appreciated.

JON MOELLER: Sure. The dynamic that you describe, which is having reflected, if you will, a significant amount of the FX decline in our top-line estimates in our last call, is correct. At that point, we felt that there were things that were going to enable us to offset the bottom line impact of FX. So we didn't adjust our bottom-line guidance at that point. But, for instance, in the last quarter, as has been alluded to by others, we had much more growth in developing markets as a percentage of our total than we were expecting. Which is positive on one hand but has a negative P&L impact.

We also had assumed, as I alluded to in my remarks, that with that stronger dollar, we would see some rollover in commodity costs. And that turned out not to materialize. And that's the reason we're now reducing guidance. So, obviously, there's lots of moving parts but at the heart of the issue is FX. And to help you get to the $0.15 to $0.18, which I realize can be hard, I suggest we follow up offline, and we can take you through that in broad strokes.

OPERATOR: Ali Dibadj of Bernstein.

ALI DIBADJ, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & CO.: Hi, guys. One just quick clarifying and then the real question. Can you give us of a sense of advertising spend in the quarter given the SG&A change? And then, the real question is, we understand the macro backdrop. We've heard it from many people. But it's a little -- I don't know what the right word is -- frustrating, bothersome, maybe, that it seems that there's things that P&G itself could do better, as well. Tide Pods is one of maybe nine supply chain issues.

The volume and market share elasticity is maybe -- were under-estimated a little bit. Cost cutting is improving. But you know we'd like you guys to do it faster. And it's great news we're going to hear more, it sounds like, at CAGNY. But is that a fair assessment, that there are many things that P&G could do more, could do better in terms of self help? And if that's the case, we scratch our heads sometimes and say okay, why?

And one response that comes up a lot when we talk to clients is gosh, it's just too complex of a business. And there's some support for that belief, as Beauty and non-Beauty are diverting in terms of growth. As Colgate and Church & Dwight and Kimberly-Clark are more focused, or arguably doing better. What do you think about that argument that it's just too complex to manage P&G as it is, and it would be better managed broken up?

BOB MCDONALD: Obviously, we think there's tremendous advantage to having the scale that we have. And we've said repeatedly that we've got to demonstrate to you that we can take that scale and turn it into accelerated growth. Our goal is to be in the top one-third of our peer group in terms of total shareholder return. And anything that detracts from us being there is unacceptable to us. We're the Company who was just rated by Chief Executive Magazine, through some research they did, as being the best company for the development of leaders. And it's now time for all of us as leaders of this Company to step up, get the Company back into the top one-third of our peer group, and stay there in terms of total shareholder return.

And we're in the process of building the capability to do that. Improving the productivity is going to be part of it, to give us flexibility when these kinds of short-term impacts occur. Continuing to innovate. Continuing to build brands. But I think you're going to see some good evidence. We're going to obviously talk about it at CAGNY. But in the balance of the year, I think you'll see good evidence that we're on track to achieve those goals I just talked about. And we will point them out to you along the way so that you don't miss them.

JON MOELLER: And we're all for appropriate portfolio discipline and ensuring that each part of the portfolio's value gets maximized. I've gotten asked, similar to your question, many times recently, would we consider doing something like Kraft. I would argue that's exactly what we've been doing, as major portions of our business, whether its pharmaceuticals or coffee and now snacks leave the portfolio.

BOB MCDONALD: The question is, can a company with the scale like ours win versus the more focused company that you talked about. And we will help you see evidence of that along the way. But I think the fact that we're making good progress in Oral Care. And, as Jon said in his remarks, I think, and Teri said in hers, we're expanding our Oral Care offerings through the balance of Latin America. You're going to see further evidence of this.

OPERATOR: Dara Mohsenian of Morgan Stanley.

DARA MOHSENIAN, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Hi, guys. First, a detail question. Jon, what's your tax rate expectation for the full year? I'm not sure if I missed that. And what's your expectation on an ongoing basis beyond this year?

And then, Bob, I just wanted to get an update on your viewpoint of the tension between gaining market share and driving profitability going forward. We saw pretty pronounced focus on market share, if you go back a year or a year-and-a-half ago. And that shifted here the last couple of quarters to more of a profit focus with the higher pricing. But now it looks like you're losing some of the market share momentum you had. So I just wanted to get an update over the next few quarters here if you're willing to cede a bit of market share. And you're not too concerned by the share loss, given you led pricing. Or if you anticipate taking more aggressive actions beyond the selective adjustments you outlined today.

JON MOELLER: So first, Dara, on the tax rate, the range for this year is, call it, 25% to 26%. And, of course, the going rate is one of the biggest questions we have right now. It's a policy-based question. But assuming status quo, we would expect a rate of around 26% on a going basis.

BOB MCDONALD: Our leaders are rewarded for building both market share and profit. The over-arching goal is, as I said, is to be in the top one-third of our peer group in total shareholder return. We talk about and in our leadership, not or. At the time where I think you and others interpreted what I was saying as being a focus on share, that was after the AMJ quarter of 2009. And AG and I reported that our market share was growing or in line in about 25% of our business. So it was critical at that time to regain our market share.

We had gone through a period of, as Jon said earlier, tremendous pricing and we had lost quite a bit of market share. We had to regain that. Today's situation is very different. As Jon indicated earlier, we're in line or growing market share in about 45% of our business. We know where the issues are. We're working on those issues. But our job going forward is to improve the profitability of the Company and to grow market share at the same time. And to be in the top one-third of our peer group in total shareholder return. And we're not going to stop until we're there. And we're even not going to stop once we are there.

OPERATOR: Javier Escalante of Consumer Edge Research.

JAVIER ESCALANTE, ANALYST, CONSUMER EDGE RESEARCH: Good morning, everyone. I would like just to focus more on the savings side. My understanding is that the pretax savings is going to be $250 million, and this is all related to Pringles, if I understand correctly. But given that there is this margin dilution from emerging markets that is not going to go away, and you commented also that the growth profile in the US and Western Europe is surprising on the low side. And I understand that there is a significant cyclical aspect to it. But shouldn't you be more proactive thinking about resizing the G&A side and basically try to be more aggressive on the savings side? Because $250 million in a Company that is well over $80 billion in sales seems to be rather modest. Thank you.

JON MOELLER: Sure. So first, just a clarification. The $250 million savings is not related to Pringles. It's related to non-Pringles enrollment reduction that we're targeting this year of 3%.

Second, we agree with you that we need to be even more intentional in this area. And as we said, we're going to talk about that a little bit more when we're together in three weeks at CAGNY. But one thing I want to also talk about is the developing market dynamic. If you look at the last 10 years, we've tripled the size of our developing market business. And over the last six years we've had to deal with about a 650 basis points of commodity cost increases; over $6 billion. And over that same period of time, while we're growing our business disproportionately in developing markets, and while we're dealing with these commodity costs, we increased our operating margin 200 basis points. I realize the last couple quarters haven't looked like that. But I think that's more indicative over longer periods of time as we smooth out the volatility of the kind of performance that we're capable of delivering, and we'll target to deliver.

OPERATOR: Jason Gere of RBC Capital Markets.

JASON GERE, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Okay, thank you. Just following up with the cost cutting, and understanding that you'll talk more about that 350 to 450 basis point at CAGNY, the question is the use of the cost savings and the role of advertising. I think you've said before that where you ended 2011, I think was a little over 11%, was probably a good level. But just given some of the softer trends we're seeing in developed markets, and obviously trying to find the balance between share gain and driving profitability, do you think that you're going to need to see a bigger step-up maybe over the next couple of years as that plays out in order to re-engage consumers back in some of the premium categories that maybe you haven't seen over the last year? Thanks.

BOB MCDONALD: Thank you, Jason. As we've said historically, the 9% to 11% range has been what we have spent. Actually, I believe that over time we will see the increase in the cost of advertising moderate. There are just so many different media available today. And we're quickly moving more and more of our businesses into digital. And in that space there are lots of different avenues available.

In the digital space, with things like Facebook and Google and others, we find that the return on investment of the advertising, when properly designed, when the big idea is there, can be much more efficient. One example is our Old Spice campaign where we had 1.8 billion free impressions. And there are many other examples I can cite from all over the world. So while there may be pressure on advertising, particularly in the United States, for example, during a year of a presidential election, there are mitigating factors like the plethora of media available.

OPERATOR: Bill Chappell of SunTrust.

BILL CHAPPELL, ANALYST, SUNTRUST ROBINSON HUMPHREY: Good morning. Just a quick question on the Pringles business. Obviously you kept in the divestiture, or the gain from the divestiture, by fiscal year end. Any color you can give us in terms of, with an SEC investigation, how you're confident this can happen in the next three, four months?

BOB MCDONALD: It all depends on what's determined, first, in the internal investigation, and then others that may be occurring. And we're just, at this point, following Diamond's public representations that they're going to have concluded the internal investigation in the middle of February. And we'll obviously be able to talk with them in more detail about that at that time. And we'll go from there.

OPERATOR: Alice Longley of Buckingham Research.

ALICE LONGLEY, ANALYST, BUCKINGHAM RESEARCH: I have a housekeeping question, then my real question. You broke out volume for developed versus developing parts of the world. Could you break out pricing? And also, could you tell us if volume is down more or less in the US than in Europe? And then my real question is, back to innovation, which you seem to agree is critical to doing well over time.

When are we going to start seeing more large-scale innovation in developed regions so that you can start gaining share? And as an example, you cite Fusion as gaining share, which is great. But overall you're losing share in blades. And I think we heard nine months ago that you're going to start supporting some of your legacy brands. But now I'm hearing that you're just now beginning to talk to retailers about how to support value. You seem slow to innovate and I'm wondering if you're going to step it up. Thank you.

JON MOELLER: First, Alice, let me just handle the housekeeping then I'll turn it over to Bob. We can help you with that information. We will help you with that information. I don't have it here with me at that level of granularity. But if you call John after the meet we'll help you out there.

ALICE LONGLEY: Thank you.

BOB MCDONALD: Alice, if you look over since the year 2000, and you look at the number of IRI pace-setters, those that have been the biggest sellers in the categories in which we compete, half of them since the year 2000 have been Procter & Gamble's. We expect to keep that kind of pace of innovation up. And that's the way we look at it. This year we've introduced Downy Unstopables, which created a new category. We've introduced Olay Facial Hair, which created a new category. We're just now introducing ProGlide Styler, which created a new category.

I talked about the fact that we're going into automobiles with Febreze for the first time. We've got a couple of other new category creators later this fiscal year. And then as I look at our program going forward, we have other discontinuous innovation, as well. But discontinuous innovation is something we're working very hard on. And we recognize that there's obviously a correlation between our North American business and discontinuous innovation.

You talked about blades and razors. If you look at the way we've grown our business in Latin American and in Asia on blades and razors, it will be instructive to the growth that we will have in Western Europe and North America. Because we have historically supported all forms of our blades and razor offering in Latin America, for example. And that business is one of our strongest, if not our strongest globally. It's growing share and all forms are growing. And that's what you'll have happen here.

I don't think that we started this nine months ago but certainly we're moving very quickly to do it. And you're right, a lot of the business, the share that we've grown on Fusion we've lost on Mach3. And that's why we need to support Mach3. And we've got some significant innovations coming on Mach3.

OPERATOR: Tim Conder of Wells Fargo Securities.

TIM CONDER, ANALYST, WELLS FARGO SECURITIES, LLC: Thank you. Just to go back to the broader issue. And again, it sounds like you are going to address this at CAGNY. But as it relates to the balance, I think, in what has long been somewhat focused on of your SG&A spending relative to your peers. Is the balance between ongoing restructuring and developing market investments -- and thank you again for the clarity of pointing out that's grown from 27% now to 45% of your sales -- can you talk about how much is on the developing market investments? How much you're spending there? And then a time table or a path to where you see those hitting the inflection points to start to positively more contribute to operating profit growth?

JON MOELLER: First, just a clarification. The 45% is a volume metric. From a sales standpoint we expect by end of year to have 37% of our business in developing markets. We don't have the detail you're looking for here with us right now. But this is something I think we can also talk a bit more about at CAGNY in a couple weeks in terms of what the investment and inflection paths would look like in general in developing markets.

BOB MCDONALD: The spirit of your question, Tim, is true. Jon did talk about the fact that we're reducing enrollment by 3%, overhead enrollment by 3 percentage points this fiscal year. That, at the same time, we are shifting the footprint of the Company to take advantage of the growth where the growth occurs. Examples of that, Jon mentioned the fact that we've closed technical centers in Western Europe, North America. We've expanded -- doubled the size of our technical center in Beijing.

We've broke ground on a new technical center in Singapore. Of the roughly 19 plants we have under construction over the last six months, one was in the United States. It's our Box Elder, Utah paper facility. But the others have all been in developing markets.

So while it may look somewhat more static from an overall standpoint, underneath those numbers is quite a dramatic shift in the resourcing of the Company to the areas of growth. And that's one of the reasons, for example, our Baby Care business is so strong today. Roughly 40% of the babies are being born in Asia. I think if you add the Middle East and Africa and maybe parts of Latin America, you'd be up to 70%. And that's why our Baby Care business is strong despite the fact that the number of births in the United States is declining.

OPERATOR: Mark Astrachan of Stifel Nicolaus.

MARK ASTRACHAN, ANALYST, STIFEL NICOLAUS: Thanks and good morning, everyone. Curious the thought process on what makes you reconsider current pricing, promotional actions, particularly given slowing share gains? And then related to that, curious about the last 20% of pricing you have not taken. Are you planning to take it? What categories is it in? Have you already taken pricing in some of those categories? Or is it in categories you've held off on? So just a bit more color there, too, would be helpful.

JON MOELLER: In terms of future pricing, obviously we can't comment category specificity. What I would tell you is that some of it is related to the currency devaluations that we've talked about in developing markets. So it's catching up with that. But there is also pricing in the developed world, both in categories where we've already priced and in some where that's still ahead of us. So I really can't get into anything more specific than that.

BOB MCDONALD: Mark, I'm not sure I totally understood your first question. But one of the things we do is, after we announce pricing and we take pricing, we obviously watch to see if competitor prices. And if they run a buy-one-get-one-free instead of pricing, that suggests to us that they're not going to price. And we wait to watch their reaction over time. And when they don't react, then we react to resume the value equation we had when we were growing share.

OPERATOR: Linda Bolton-Weiser of Caris & Company.

LINDA BOLTON-WEISER, ANALYST, CARIS & COMPANY: Hi. Just another question on innovation and how you think about it. Are all categories equally deserving of innovation? Or how much do you think about the inherent growth rate of categories in terms of demographics or birth rates or whatever, in terms of looking at where you want to put your investment? Or is it that inherently declining categories, like diapers, in developed markets might actually need more investment because you need to work at some kind of innovation that could enhance category size or something? Could you just talk about how you think about it in terms of the return on investment?

BOB MCDONALD: Sure. Innovation is our lifeblood, Linda. Our purpose is to improve people's lives and the primary way we do that is through innovation. We spend over $2 billion a year on research and development. That's about double our next largest competitor. And we spend about $0.5 billion a year on consumer research, which obviously tells us where to innovate.

We then look at our innovation spending and resource allocation by category. We look at it by category relative to the sales of that category. And we look at it relative to where competitors are spending. And we look to get a rate of return higher than our competitors because of our scale. Because we're able to identify technologies that become platform technologies across categories. And this is a little bit back to Ali's question of why you should expect more from us.

For example, our knowledge of bleach and laundry led to Crest White Strips, which leads to our competitive advantage in hair color and Perfect 10, which leads to other uses of bleach across our portfolio. So those platforms become very critical to us to being able to get more for the $2 billion in R&D spending than our competition, which may be more singularly focused on an individual category.

Secondly, back in 2000 when AG was our CEO, we announced a program called Connect and Develop where we want to get 50% of our ideas from outside the Company. We've been successful in doing that. In fact, today, about over 80% of our innovations have some kind of external partner. We even have joint development laboratories with our suppliers. And we spend a lot of time working with outside universities, suppliers, partners in order to improve our rate of innovation, as well as the impact of our innovation. We're one of the few companies in the world that has an innovation and technology committee of our Board of Directors. We meet with that committee frequently. And we lay out our innovation program because it is so critical to our Company.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, that concludes today's conference. Thank you for your participation. You may now disconnect. Have a great day.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
prgml : The Procter & Gamble Company
   IN
i258 : Cosmetics/Toiletries | icnp : Consumer Products | ipcare : Personal Care Products/Appliances
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | npeo : People Profile | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020120210e81r002gx
  


 HD
 Q1  2012  Procter  & Gamble Co Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
12,494 words
   PD
27 October 2011
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©011 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day ladies and gentlemen. At this time all participants are in listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session. (Operator Instructions)

   TD
Good morning and welcome to Procter & Gamble's quarter-end conference call. Today's discussion will include a number of forward-looking statements. If you will refer to P&G's most recent 10K, 10-Q and 8K reports, you will see a discussion of factors that could cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from these projections. As required by regulation G, P&G needs to make you aware that during the call, the Company will make a number of references to non-GAAP and other financial measures. Management believes these measures provide investors valuable information on the underlying growth trends of the business.

Organic refers to reported results, excluding the impact of acquisitions and divestitures and foreign exchange, where applicable. Free cash flow represents operating cash flow, less capital expenditures. Free cash flow productivity is the ratio of free cash flow to net earnings. Core EPS refers to earnings per share from continuing operations, excluding certain items. The effective tax rate on core earnings represents the effective tax rate on continuing operations less non-core impacts. P&G has posted on its website, www.PG.com, a full reconciliation of non-GAAP and other financial measures. Now, I will turn the call over to P&G's Chief Financial Officer, Jon Moeller.

JON MOELLER, CFO, PROCTER & GAMBLE CO: Thanks, and good morning, everyone. Bob McDonald and Teri List join me this morning. I'll begin today's call with a summary of our first-quarter results and Teri will provide highlights of the results in some of our largest product categories. I'll provide a brief update on our strategies and focus areas and I will conclude the call with guidance for fiscal year 2012 and the December quarter. Based on your feedback, we're taking a slightly different approach towards the business segment portion of the call. We will provide all the information you have historically received through the press release we issued this morning and slides will post to our website, PG.com, following the call.

This will allow us to streamline the business presentation during the call to focus on our largest categories, those which have the biggest impact on Company results. Our objective is to provide more context on these key businesses as well as to allow more time to discuss matters of strategic importance and to answer your questions. We're trying to be responsive with this approach to your requests; please let us know what you think about these changes. We will, of course, take questions after our prepared remarks and will be available following the call to provide additional perspective as needed.

The first quarter was a good quarter putting us on track to deliver our full plan for the year. Top line results came in strong with organic sales growth of 4% at the high-end of our guidance range. Progress was broad-based with every segment growing organic sales in the quarter. Global market share on a constant currency value basis was essentially in line with prior year levels and was in line or higher in businesses representing about 60% of global sales. We held or grew share in 3 of 5 regions, 11 of our top 15 countries, 4 of our 6 reporting segments and on 15 of our 24 billion-dollar brands.

Organic volume growth was 2%, an impressive outcome given the amount of pricing we took in the quarter. As we noted last quarter, we saw about 1 percentage point of volume and sales growth pulled from this quarter into the prior quarter, due to price increases taken in the June/July timeframe. Adjusting for this volume and sales shift between quarters, our underlying growth momentum is somewhat stronger than the 2% volume and 4% organic sales result. Volume and sales growth accelerated as the quarter progressed with an all-time record shipment month in September.

Pricing contributed 4% to organic sales growth and was up in all 6 reporting segments. Mix reduced sales by 1 point due to a combination of geographic and product mix changes. All-in sales growth was 9%, including a 5% benefit from foreign exchange. Our bottom line results were also consistent with our expectations. Earnings-per-share were $1.03, up 1% versus the prior year and toward the high-end of our guidance range. Earnings per share growth was driven mainly by solid sales growth, cost savings and the benefits of share repurchase. These items were offset by higher commodity costs and marketing investments.

Gross margin declined 240 basis points. The combination of pricing, cost savings and fixed-cost leverage improved gross margin by roughly 260 basis points. These benefits were more than offset by a 340 basis point negative impact from higher commodity in energy costs and 160 basis point negative impact from the combination of mix and foreign exchange. SG&A costs were up slightly as the benefits from sales growth leverage were offset by higher marketing investments. The effective tax rate for the quarter was 26.2%, consistent with our going-in expectations. We generated $1.3 billion of free cash flow. The first quarter is typically are lightest cash generation quarter of the year. Beyond this cyclical dynamic, capital spending increased due to our investments in new manufacturing capacity, to support our innovation and geographic expansion program; also inventory levels increased due to higher commodity costs and ahead of new innovation launches such as Tide Pods which will come to market in February.

We returned nearly $2.8 billion of cash to shareholders this quarter, more than 90% of net earnings via dividends and share repurchase. We repurchased about $1.3 billion of stock in the quarter and we paid $1.5 billion in dividends. At the current annualized dividend of $2.10 per share, our dividend yield is approximately 3.2%. Now, I'll turn the call over to Teri to review some of the highlights of our business results.

TERI LIST, SVP AND TREASURER, PROCTER & GAMBLE CO: Thanks, Jon. As Jon said, we're taking a somewhat different approach to the business segment portion of today's call. Rather than covering the details of all of our 6 business segments, I'll instead review highlights from some of our larger businesses. For more information on business segment results, please refer to the press release we issued this morning, and slides that will be posting on our website, PG.com, at the conclusion of this call.

I'll start with the Beauty business, which delivered solid, organic sales and volume growth led by the retail hair care and Prestige categories. Retail hair care global volume was up high-single digits and value share grew nearly 0.5 point. All brands grew volume, with both Head and Shoulders and Herbal Essences up double digits. Pantene global volume increased mid-single digits. China growth was particularly strong, up over 30% versus a year ago behind horizontal expansion into Pantene treatments

In our Prestige business, organic volume was up nearly 20%, with broad-based growth in both fragrances and skin care. Fragrances growth was across all regions and was driven by recent launches in Gucci, Hugo Boss and Lacoste. SK-II growth was driven by double-digit growth across the core product lines, as well as new launches in the makeup and men's personal care segment. Retail skin care shipments were down in the quarter, due mainly to a strong base period that included expansion to new markets in the Central and Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa regions. The business momentum in China and North America which has been our softest market strengthened throughout the quarter. We're back to full availability in North America, following the interruption in Olay UV shipments last fiscal year and we have strong commercial plans for the balance of the year. In China, we launched 3 new initiatives that delivered very strong consumer response and share improvement toward the end of the quarter.

In the Grooming segment, the global Fusion franchise continued to deliver strong, broad-based volume and value share growth. The majority of this growth has been driven by the launch of Fusion ProGlide which is now available in over 20 markets around the globe. While Fusion growth has been very strong, MACH3 and lower-priced legacy franchises in developed markets have declined. These brands have been negatively impacted by market contraction in western Europe, and high levels of promotional competitive activity in North America. To address these impacts, we're evolving our strategy to fully support all tiers with innovation, advertising and commercial support, the same approach we use across most of our categories.

Moving onto the Health Care segment, I'll highlight our oral care results. Global oral care volume grew mid-single digits and value share increased nearly 0.5 point. US value share was up 1 point, to over 38%, behind the launch of the Crest Complete mid-tier line and double-digit volume growth of the 3-D White regimen. The markets where we have recently launched Oral-B toothpaste also continued to deliver strong results. Brazil Oral-B toothpaste value share grew to over 5% on a national basis and over 10% in the channels where it is distributed and share is now increased for 10 consecutive quarters since it launched.

In western Europe, Oral-B toothpaste value share growth has accelerated behind the launch of 3-D White. Toothpaste share in Belgium is up more than 5 points versus last year, to nearly 20%. In the Netherlands, toothpaste share is up more than 3 points to more than 13%. In the UK, where Oral-B toothpaste launched toward the end of June, our past 3 months toothpaste value share was over 9%, and the growth across all product forms has driven us to the number 2 market share position in the overall Oral Care category. We're continuing to globalization of our Oral Care business. We recently launched in Nigeria and Ghana and both markets are shipping well ahead of our initial expectations. We're continuing our market expansions and we will be launching in Columbia early next calendar year. We will also continue to rollout a very strong innovation program, including the expansion of our 3-D White line to additional geographies.

Our Fabric and Home Care business delivered good growth in developing markets. India led the growth in developing markets with laundry volume up more than 30%. In developed markets, North America fabric enhancer volume increased behind the launch of Downy Unstoppables and laundry detergent value share in Germany was up 2 points versus a year ago, behind the Lenor laundry detergent launch.

We experienced, as we had anticipated, shipment and share volatility in certain geographies as we priced across much of the business. The relative consumer value of our brands were stretched in a few category-country combinations, namely the laundry powders, auto dishwashing and hair care businesses in the US, and the laundry category in the UK, as we took price increases across most of our portfolio, and competitors' pricing did not increase or in some cases actually went down. More specifically, we saw buy-one-get-one free offers across multiple brands from Unilever in UK laundry and US hair care categories and deep promotions from Reckitt in the US auto dish category. We have a strong innovation program coming over the next 6 to 12 months in the laundry category, highlighted by the upcoming launch of Tide Pods in the US in February. And, we're confident we will resume solid volume and share progress soon.

Finally, in the Baby and Family Care segment, global baby care volume increased high-single digits, led by developing markets up mid-teens. Global value share was up over 1 point, with all regions growing. BRIC markets led the growth with average volume increasing over 25%, as we continued to focus on commercial and product innovation across the price tiers. As you can see from this overview, our largest businesses are generally strong. There are a few categories or brands in a few category country or brand country combinations where we need to accelerate growth. We know what needs to be done in these areas, and we have begun to see progress in some of them. I'll turn the call back to Jon, now.

JON MOELLER: Thanks, Teri. We continue to be encouraged by our overall results and the strength of the business with broad-based top line growth across each of the business segments, and continued volume momentum despite the pricing moves we made. The biggest challenge we face is a significant increase in commodity cost which has held back operating profit growth. These cost increases could an unanticipated earnings per share headwind of about $0.25 per share last fiscal year, or nearly a 7 percentage point drag on earnings per share growth versus our going-in expectations.

This quarter, we faced an additional $700 million in higher commodity cost. Instead of making the easy, wrong choice to scale back our investments, we've made the difficult, right choice to continue supporting our innovation and expansion programs as we get pricing and cost savings in place, to offset higher commodity costs. We do view this as a short-term choice. We have, and are, taking pricing actions necessary to restore profitability in the categories effected by higher commodity costs. As I mentioned, pricing had a 4-point positive impact on growth in the June quarter, and it had a 3-point positive impact on growth -- excuse me, 4 points in the September quarter and 3 points in the June quarter. We expect an inflection in operating profit growth in the second half of the fiscal year. One will benefit from the full impact of the pricing we have planned and we will have easier commodity cost comparisons and as cost savings accelerate.

Going forward, our strategy and our long-term growth model continue to be predicated on balanced top and bottom line growth. This focus is evident in the four priorities we've set for our organization this fiscal year -- maintaining our top line growth momentum, executing price increases with excellence, delivering solid operating profit growth and improving productivity in all that we do. We've made good progress against these priorities in the first quarter. We delivered solid top line growth, executed significant pricing and further increased our focus on productivity and cost savings.

As we've discussed our long-term growth strategy and our near-term priorities with our shareholders, we've received a few questions we thought might be helpful to address. One question concerns our ability to maintain top line growth momentum in the current economic environment. We're very well-positioned to continue growing in this or any environment. We have a strong, multi-year innovation program which includes recent innovations that we are in the process of rolling out around the world and new innovations that will be coming to market for the first time this year. And, we have significantly increased marketing support each of the last two years which puts us in a strong position to support this innovation. We have strong, vertical portfolios that enable us to attract an increasing number of consumers to our brands. They also give us more flexibility to take pricing on premium items, without putting market share at risk.

Our portfolios are much better balanced today than they were 10, 5, or even 3 years ago. We're targeting numerous portfolio opportunities along each vector of our growth strategy. We will reach more consumers by expanding our category portfolios vertically to more price tiers. As I said, we have made good progress in this area, but we have many additional opportunities to expand our portfolios to higher and lower price points to make P&G brands more attractive to more consumers. We will grow by serving consumers were completely. We will improve consumer loyalty by delivering new benefits on existing products and we will expand consumption by creating product regiments that offer better performance and uses experiences when used together.

Revolutionary innovations such as Tide Pods, which will launch in February, have the power to transform seemingly mature categories by improving the entire consumer experience with our brands. We will compete in more categories in more parts of the world. The supply is to both developed and developing markets. We compete in 36 product categories in the US, but only 28 in the UK and Spain, 22 in France, 21 in China and only 16 in Brazil and India. Developing markets have been a significant source of growth which has helped us manage through the sluggish growth environment in developed markets. The BRIC markets alone have added more than $5 billion to Company sales over just the past 5 years. 18 months ago we embarked on an integrated, and focused portfolio expansion plan in the BRIC markets and they are growing currently at roughly a 15% pace. We have just begin executing integrated plans in 7 additional developing markets.

The big opportunity for growth in developing markets has led to the question of whether that growth will be margin dilutive. In just the last 6 years, developing markets grown from about 23% of sales or about $13 billion, to 35% or about $29 billion at the end of last fiscal year. Despite this dramatic increase in developing markets sales, and despite more than $6 billion or 750 basis points in commodity cost headwinds over the same period, operating profit margins have remained essentially flat. We have a very profitable developing market business. The level of profitability in any individual market is largely a function of scale. For example, China and Russia are 2 of our most developed, developing markets where we compete in 21 and 25 product categories respectively. Combined, these markets account for roughly 10% of total Company sales, and have an operating profit margin in line with the Company average. Over an acceptable period of time, as we build out our portfolio, we expect our category expansions to be margin accretive, not dilutive. At any point in time, we'll likely have a handful of developing markets that are in a significant expansion phase. These markets may have lower margins for a few years, but in each of these cases, we have detailed plans to get margins to attractive levels.

We've also frequently been asked about our commitment to improving productivity and cutting cost and through this, growing operating profit. The pricing we are taking is one important step to delivering solid operating profit growth. We faced $1.8 billion in higher input costs last year. Pricing was up 1%, or about $800 million, which left us with a net negative profit impact of about $1 billion, before tax. This year, we currently expect an additional $1.8 billion in higher input costs. Pricing, though, should be up 3% or more, or about $2.8 billion, which should yield a net, positive impact of about $1 billion before tax. Of course, the pricing we are taking is not only driven by input costs were also adjusting pricing in some markets in response to foreign exchange rate movements, such as in Venezuela, Mexico, Brazil and Turkey.

We are firmly committed to improving our cost structure while continuing to advance our innovation and expansion plans. An important aspect of our productivity and cost savings work year in and year out is our investment in restructuring. Over the past 6 years we've invested more than $3 billion after-tax, or nearly $5 billion before tax, to restructure our operations, streamline work processes, and redesign our organization for long-term success. Over those 6 years we've invested between $250 million and $500 million after-tax each year in our base restructuring program, that's reported as part of core earnings. In addition, we have made incremental investment following the Gillette acquisition and the Folgers divestiture to drive cost savings. In the case of Folgers, we invested about $300 million after-tax in incremental restructuring to generate savings to offset the ongoing dilution from exiting the coffee business.

As we discussed in our last earnings call, we plan to take a similar approach to offset the dilution from the exit of the Snacks business. We have not finalized all of our restructuring plans, but given the wide-ranging speculation, on what we may or may not invest this year, we wanted to provide some additional preliminary perspective. Based on our current plans we expect to invest up to $1 billion before tax or in the range of $700 million to $800 million after-tax, on productivity improvement opportunities to fund both our base and incremental restructuring plans. This represents incremental non-core restructuring investments of $0.15 to $0.18 per share above last year's base level. Our productivity and savings improvement driven by these investments will affect both cost of goods and SG&A. Within this, overhead productivity improvement is an area of particular focus.

We know our overhead costs as a percentage of sale are high. Given the scale advantages of P&G, our objective for overhead cost is to be best in class. We have clear opportunities to reduce cost and the plans we are developing will accelerate our progress. We're taking a design-based approach, which we feel will enable us to make lasting improvements in our cost structure, without creating unnecessary distraction for our employees or unnecessary risk for the business. We're well into the design process and are already beginning the implementation phase in some areas. We will include the incremental restructuring investments along with the gain from the exit of the Snacks business in our all-in earnings per share guidance when we close the Pringles transaction. Given the size of the one-time gain, we still expect a significant increase in all-in earnings per share when we include all of these items in our guidance.

With all of that as context, I'll move to guidance for the fiscal year and the second quarter. For fiscal year 2012, we continue to expect organic sales growth in the range of 3% to 6%. This is based on the assumption of global market value growth of 3% to 4%, comprised of 1% to 2% value growth in developed markets and 6% to 8% growth in developing markets. We estimate the net impact from pricing and mix will contribute between 1% and 3% to sales for the year. Within this we expect pricing and lower promotion levels will add 3 to 4 points to sales growth and that mix will continue to be a sales growth headwind of 1 to 2 percentage points. This is all unchanged from our prior guidance. We now expect foreign exchange will be essentially neutral to sales growth for the year, bringing our all-in sales growth guidance also to a range of 3% to 6%.

On the bottom line, despite significant currency deterioration we are maintaining our earnings per share range of $4.17 to $4.33 for the fiscal year. This equates to earnings per share growth of 6% to 10%, versus base period core earnings per share of $3.95. As we said last quarter, we feel this wide range appropriately and responsibly reflects the range of possible outcomes. Significant strengthening of the dollar over the past few months is a prime example of the volatility we face which justifies the wide guidance range. We face similar volatility in material costs. As I mentioned earlier, based on current spot prices, we currently expect commodity costs to be up $1.8 billion before tax, unchanged from our previous estimates. This is down about -- sorry, this also comes at the time that we are dealing with the strengthening of the dollar.

While a few materials have come down modestly from their highs, many ingredients accounting for our largest exposures are up compared to going in forecast for the year. Surfactants and alcohols are up more than 10% and resin-based materials are up as much is 30%. This may seem out of sync for those of you watching West Texas Intermediate oil prices; resin prices though, are tracking with Brent crude trends not WTI, and Brent has remained high, above $100 a barrel. A combination of pricing, cost savings and use of alternative materials and formulations will offset a large portion of the input cost impact, but we still expect to see gross margin contraction for the year. We expect solid operating profit growth in fiscal 2012, roughly in line with earnings per share growth.

As we said on our last call we're forecasting capital spending in the range of 4% to 5% of net sales, which may result in free cash flow productivity marginally below our typical 90% target level. Our plans to utilize free cash flow, including paying around $6 billion in dividends, and we're estimating that we will repurchase between $4 billion and $6 billion in stock during fiscal 2012. This is a slightly more conservative outlook than our last guidance; it anticipates higher restructuring spending and reflects our cash progress to date. Importantly, this range excludes the share exchange dynamic implicit in the Pringles transaction which will lead to higher effective share repurchase for the year.

Moving to the October/December quarter, we're estimating organic sales growth in the range of 3% to 5%. We expect pricing and mix to provide a combined net debt of 1 to 2 points. We estimate foreign exchange will be neutral to sales growth for the quarter which leads to all-in sales growth, also in the range of 3% to 5%. On the bottom line, the December quarter will be another challenging one. We will face very difficult commodity cost comparisons without having fully realized the offsetting benefits of pricing. Currency has also worsened and it will take some time to get appropriate pricing in place. Volume growth will continue to be pressured by slow developed market growth and by our price increases and we're comparing against a base period with a very low tax rate.

We expect December quarter earnings per share in the range of $1.05 to $1.11 or down 5% to flat versus all-in earnings per share of $1.11 in the base period. Compared to base period core earnings per share of $1.13, we expect earnings per share to be down 7% to down 2%. The call of the effective core tax rate in the base period was just 22.4%; we're expecting every between 26% and 27% this quarter, which results in an earnings per share headwind of about $0.05 to $0.06 per share or about 5 percentage points of core earnings per share growth. Adjusting for the tax headwind, our normalized core earnings per share growth rate is more like a range of down 2% to up 3%. As I mentioned, we'll be updating our second quarter and fiscal year guidance when we close the Teva joint venture, potentially in the next week or so, and again with the Pringles divestiture transaction in early to mid-December. We will use these opportunities to update guidance for the transactions, as well as any new visibility on base business progress.

As we look beyond the December quarter, we expect an inflection in operating profit growth in the back half of the year. This will be driven by an increasing benefit from pricing, accelerating cost savings and a declining year-on-your impact from commodity cost, assuming material and energy costs stay near current market rates. In terms of pricing, our back half plans include some additional commodity related increases, and we're pricing to help offset the impact of currency devaluations in some developing markets. Fully expect material costs to be up mid-teens in the first half of the year; they should be up only slightly in the back half of the year and down by the end of the year. That concludes our prepared remarks and now, Bob, Teri and I would be happy to take your questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: Thank you.

(Operator Instructions)

John Faucher, JPMorgan.

JOHN FAUCHER, ANALYST, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: Thank you. Jon or Bob, you guys have spent the past few years reinflating some of the spending lines, which has taken a hit over the past couple of years, and so, as we look to this hockey stick acceleration you have budgeted for second-half, how do we get comfort that sort of the first half of calendar year '12, we're not going to end up seeing, either seeing sort of the state of negative revisions we've had over the past couple of years, or, conversely, a situation where you guys end up giving up the marketing spending that you've built up over the last couple of years? So, any thoughts in terms of giving us some comfort on that huge acceleration in the back half particularly from a spending standpoint?

JON MOELLER: So, first I'd say, marketing spending, as you rightly point out, John, is up 24% over the last two fiscal years. So, there's significant strength in that program. We're planning on increases again this year, albeit more in line with sales growth as opposed to ahead of sales growth. And, we're committed to that spend. And, we have a very exciting initiative program in the back half which we will support. What gives us confidence in, what you referred to as the hockey stick or the improved results in the back half, are the things I mentioned earlier on the call namely the full-year impact of pricing and pricing is going very well right now. Second commodity cost comparisons will be much easier in the second half and there will be a tailwind by the end of the year. And then third our ongoing cost and productivity efforts should accelerate as we go through the year.

BOB MCDONALD, PRES., CEO, CHAIRMAN, PROCTER & GAMBLE CO: John, I also think that our topline growth this quarter, this past quarter of 9% and 4% is evidence that we're working against our purpose and our purpose-inspired growth strategy. Our purpose is to improve lives and we know we need to do that by shipping product, we've turned that into a growth strategy. Jon talked about in his remarks, more consumers, more parts of the world, more completely. And, as you know from our analyst conference here in Cincinnati, we laid out for you, detailed plans through 2015, '16, that would get us into the top third of our peer group in total shareholder return. We are on track with those plans and we're not going to deviate from those plans and we're trying to deal with the volatility we have externally and still deliver those plans. And, I think what you see this quarter is that we're on track.

OPERATOR: Lauren Lieberman, Barclays Capital.

LAUREN LIEBERMAN, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Thanks, good morning. I just wanted to follow-up. I know, Jon, you just said the pricing is going very well and that's kind of evident in the numbers but you did also highlight some spots where it's -- the competitive environment is a little bit more challenging. So, I guess, that combined with intention to take more pricing in the back half where FX kind of necessitates it, where do you stand on your patience threshold for waiting for competitors to kind of fall in line, if you will, and where do you stand on market shares and price gaps in those particular hot spot categories? Thanks.

BOB MCDONALD: Lauren, this is Bob. Obviously, we are taking price increases. We're about -- through about two-thirds of the price increases we're taking this fiscal year as Jon said. The customer or retailer response has been positive. Generally, the competitive response has been positive following our leadership in taking those price increases. As Jon also said, we're growing share or holding market share in 60% of our business globally. But, as you indicated, Jon did identify a couple of category-country combinations where competition has chosen, at least in the short term, not to follow.

We talked about in the UK Hair Care category, Unilever did a buy 2 get 1 free across 65% of its hair care business. In UK Laundry where we have been growing share, we've seen Unilever's volume sold on deal go up above 80%. In the US, auto dish, Reckitt's not increased prices; we've been growing share there. And in US laundry, Church and Dwight -- average powder pricing is flat and liquid pricing has actually declined, whereas we've increased prices. We're going to continue to follow through on the pricing that we have taken and we're confident that we will continue to get the right value equation with our consumers and continue to hold or grow share.

JON MOELLER: I would just add two things. One, is we are early in this game still. And so, there's no reason to change course. The other thing that I think is important is the geographies -- country-category combinations that Bob mentioned -- he mentioned four country-category combinations across the entire portfolio of hundreds of country-category combinations. And in general, as is evidenced by the strength of the market share, is we are in pretty good shape.

BOB MCDONALD: And all these four areas where we have grown a substantial amount of share. We're up above 55% share in the UK laundry. The home market of our competitors, so the situation is understandable.

OPERATOR: William Schmitz, Deutsche Bank.

WILLIAM SCHMITZ, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Hey, guys good morning. Trying to do this in one question. So, if you look at the incentive compensation structure, now the long-term incentive compensation, the proxy -- it looks like you lowered some of your EBIT growth assumption. So is that to be construed as kind of the long-term algorithm? And then if that's the case, do you think the billion dollars of restructuring, does that get you there on the US cost structure given -- call it low-single digits category growth?

JON MOELLER: I think, Bill, and I'd be happy to talk this off-line, but the EBIT numbers that you're looking at in the proxy relate to this fiscal year only and are entirely consistent with our guidance. That does not change our long-term expectation or algorithm.

BOB MCDONALD: Remember, Bill, our long-term goal continues to be, to be in the top third of our peer group and total shareholder return. That has not changed.

OPERATOR: Nik Modi, UBS.

NIK MODI, ANALYST, UBS: Good morning, everyone. So, just a quick question -- if you can provide any perspective on the whole white space initiative whether it be geography or category, how have those businesses grown one year after, two years after the initial launch point? If you could provide any context and also how the profitability has migrated? I know it's probably different by market, but any general thoughts you could provide that would be helpful.

JON MOELLER: Sure, Nik, this is Jon. And I'm going to apologize, but I neglected to answer --I'll call it part 2 instead of question 2 of Bill's question. Let me do that first and then we'll answer your question, Nik.

NIK MODI: Sure, no problem.

JON MOELLER: Bill, I apologize. Relative to restructuring, this will significantly accelerate our progress. It doesn't get us fully to where our endpoint is, but we'll continue restructuring the business as we have and we're very confident that we will get there over the right period of time and that we will make dependable progress each year. I'll turn it over to Bob to answer your question, Nik.

BOB MCDONALD: Nik, generally as a headline, I would say that, in all of the places we have entered category white spaces, country-category combinations, of which, as you recall, we laid out that there are 250 new category-country combinations we're entering from 2009 to 2015, '16, all of them continue to be on track or above our expectation. And, examples would be -- if you looked at our oral care business. For example, the expansion of Oral-B paste in Brazil -- as Jon talked about, we're now over a 10% share in the channels where we compete. 5.5% share nationally; trial and repeat rates continue to trend well above target.

In June, the leading business publication in their annual ranking of the most valuable brands in Brazil ranked Oral-B in the top 10 for the first time ever. And, our primary competitor there wasn't even ranked. And, we've grown share there now for 10 consecutive quarters since we launched. I mean I could go on and on, but we purposely set of these plans in a relatively conservative way, estimating what we think the competitive response will be so we can make sure we deliver our results consistent with the progress that we want to make.

JON MOELLER: I will just add one point, Nik, which is, not all, but a significant number of these expansions over the last 18 months occurred in the BRIC markets. And I mentioned in my remarks that we are growing the business 15% in those markets, cumulatively, which is certainly emblematic of continued success. That's about 6 points ahead of market growth rate that we saw in the last quarter of 9% in those markets.

OPERATOR: Chris Ferrara, Bank of AmericaMerrill Lynch.

CHRIS FERRARA, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Thanks, I'm wondering if you guys can give some color around what you think the market opportunity is for something like Tide Pods? I guess what proportion of the total laundry market you think it can take in a market like the US. And if you could just give a little color around the economic environment we're in and how that affects what your launch plans are and what your expectations would be? Thanks.

BOB MCDONALD: Thank you, Chris. Well, we know that the consumer is very sensitive in these economic times to innovation. We've seen that as we launched things like crest 3-D White, Downy Unstoppables, Fusion ProGlide. When we get it right, when we get the consumer segmentation right, when we get the innovation right, consumers are looking for these kinds of innovations to improve their lives. I think when you look at Tide Pods, it's helpful to look at the dish category and look at what we've done with unit-dose in the dish category. Now all unit-dose is not created equal. Our unit-dose has a proprietary technology, a proprietary film technology, a proprietary liquid technology, proprietary making technology that can't be copied. That results in a holistic innovation that we know consumers love.

For example, over 90% of consumers who have tried Tide Pods described it as a significantly better experience. When you look at the auto dish category, we estimate that Tide Pods can grow to about 30% of the market. It's the most concentrated form of laundry detergent you can get, so it is better for the environment, it's better for space in consumers homes, it has great, great cleaning performance. Everybody wins with Tide Pods. So our expectation is, over time you'll see it grow to about 30% of the category. We're launching initially, as Jon said, in February in United States, but obviously we are going to take it global as quickly as possible. And, it will be a major platform on which we will build in the future.

OPERATOR: Wendy Nicholson with Citi Investment Research.

WENDY NICHOLSON, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Hi. It strikes me that the biggest risk to the back half really is on currency because, if you're forecasting a neutral impact on the top line, which I think pretty much translates to the bottom line versus the 2% to 3% lift that you had expected before, I'm not sure why you're sticking with your prior earnings guidance. And I know you are planning on taking some pricing in emerging markets to offset that, but that strikes me as risky given how focused you are in growing your market shares in those emerging markets and it doesn't really sound like commodities are going to provide that much of a tailwind. So, why hold onto the back half guidance as opposed to double down and reinvest more and just say -- hey, currencies our where currencies are, and we are not going to get the lift we thought we were? Thanks.

JON MOELLER: Thanks, Wendy. We're still, you rightly mentioned -- we should be able to price in many cases to be able to help mitigate these currency impacts. Having said that, you're also right -- this is a negative development in our forecast since we last talked. But, we've worked hard on the cost savings and productivity pieces of this and we still feel comfortable with our guidance range.

BOB MCDONALD: Wendy, I'm very encouraged by the work that we've done around improving the productivity of our Company. This has been a leadership effort that our leaders have driven throughout the organization to find ways to flatten the organization, allow people to operate with greater agility. And, I think as we continue digging, we're finding more and more potential to improve the operations of the Company, to shift our center of gravity more to where the growth is, where the babies are being born in Asia, and Africa, Latin America, and to clean up some of the complexity which we inherited when we made a number of acquisitions in prior years. So, I think there's a lot of potential there and I think it's something that we simply have to do and this demonstrates our confidence in being able to do that.

JON MOELLER: I also think, Wendy, that -- you know our philosophy on this in the past and that hasn't changed which is, we're not going to follow short-term fluctuations in either commodities or currency out the window to the detriment of the execution of our strategy. We are going to execute our strategy consistent with the answer to John's question earlier. But, we just feel comfortable at this point that we can do that and deliver somewhere within that range.

OPERATOR: Ali Dibadj, Sanford Bernstein.

ALI DIBADJ, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & CO.: Hey, guys. So I am kind of torn, I guess, because this quarter looks a lot like previous quarters where the top line was good but the margins suffered. Plus, it seems like yes, share losses were concentrated in a few category-country combinations but those lead to, I think, share loss within -- for North America, for Western Europe, your two biggest markets. Now, you continue to expect kind of more of an inflection on margins going forward. So, I guess, I struggle with delineating and actually getting a little bit excited about maybe even -- but how much of that comes from just waiting for commodities to roll over and competitors to catch up on pricing versus the foray you've made into more proactively, much more aggressively pushing on cost cutting.

And, I say that in the context of, $1 billion is a good start, because $1 billion is, call it 120, let's say, to be nice, basis points on sales. But, your competitors like it Kimberly or Colgate or Unilever do that within two quarters, for their scale at lease. So, $3 billion the past few years sounds impressive, sounds good, but call it 350 to 400 basis point is what that relates to, and that's what Colgate does in 2 years. So, it goes back a little bit to the question before -- how much are you proactively going after this? Why not more aggressively? Why not more? Why not more quickly in the competitive context, and frankly, the market conditions that you're facing right now?

JON MOELLER: I think there were about 30 questions there. But, let me start with some of the quarter dynamics and then we'll get to your question on restructuring. You mentioned margin compression in the quarter, that's absolutely correct. Operating margins were down 260 basis points. More than 100% of that, 340 basis points, is our a year-on-year commodity impacts, which should neutralize, assuming current spot prices as we get to the back part of the year. So, a part of the evolution and operating profit growth is, as you say, timing as we wait for those commodity costs to roll over.

At the same time, we are being, as Bob mentioned, more focused on cost and productivity. I think that the question of how much we should spend on restructuring is not really so much -- is not the best question. And I apologize if that came out the wrong way. But the right question is, what is the endpoint. And we are committed to be best-in-class in overhead cost structure within our industry. We feel we have plans to get there. We want to do that in a way that doesn't disrupt the business that enables us to execute the strategy that we've been discussing, but, still makes measured come in year-on-year progress.

BOB MCDONALD: And Jon said, while our goal and our plan leads to best in class in the industry, it's a scale-adjusted best in class. So, we're not giving ourselves the advantage of scale. I think the other thing you have to remember to, Ali, and I know you know this, is as we are restructuring the business, all over the world and in different ways, we're also in the process of one of the largest expansions of the business in the history of the company. We have roughly 20 plants under construction right now, as I said earlier. We're putting a new baby diaper line somewhere in the world every four weeks.

We have to hire the people to run those factories -- and while we hire fewer people to run those factories, because today, for the average factory we have, we are producing 25, over 25 million cases a year versus when I joined the company we were producing about 7 million cases per factory per year. We do have to staff those operations in the parts that we're growing. So, it's not an either/or it's an and. And, we're trying to get the balance right to be best in class, scale-adjusted on the cost side in order to be top third of our peer group in total shareholder returns. We think we've got the balance right. And, time will prove that.

OPERATOR: Joe Altobello, Oppenheimer.

JOE ALTOBELLO, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER & CO.: Thanks, good morning, guys. Just a couple quick ones if I could. First, just to follow up on the discussion of overheads. Could you give us directionally, what was the change in your overhead spend this quarter versus a year ago? It would be very helpful to track that and your progress going forward. And then secondly, and I apologize if I missed this, what was the market growth in developed versus developing markets and how does that compare to what you expected coming into the quarter? Thanks.

JON MOELLER: Joe, overhead in the quarter was down 20 to 30 basis points and that was offset by increases in marketing spending. In prior quarters, we've been down significantly more than that, it is a bit lumpy by quarter. But I would expect quarter-on-quarter progress on overhead as a percentage of sales. Relative to market growth, this is market growth in value terms in the July/September quarter.

Global market growth was around 4% based upon our geographic mix of business. Developed markets grew about 1% and developing markets continued solid growth of about 9%. For the fiscal year, we expect global market value growth of 3% to 4%. This assumes developed markets grow 1% to 2% and developing markets grow 6% to 8%. We're expecting essentially no growth in developed markets on a volume basis with any value growth being driven by higher pricing in our categories. And so, if you look at the last quarter from a P&G growth standpoint, we grew in both developed and developing but the growth was very modest in developed, most of the growth was from developing.

BOB MCDONALD: Thanks, Joe.

OPERATOR: Dara Mohsenian, Morgan Stanley.

DARA MOHSENIAN, ANALYST, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: Bob, it would be helpful to get an update from you on what you are seeing from a consumer spending standpoint in your key regions given macro concerns particularly the US, China, Russia and Brazil, and if you believe consumer spending is slowing at this point and impacting category growth rates in those regions?

BOB MCDONALD: Thanks, Dara. In terms of consumer spending we really don't see much difference today versus what we've been seeing since about 2008, which is, in the developed markets you have a bifurcation. You have, on the high-end people with their incomes continuing to expand and growing very strongly and continuing to spend on premium products. I think the success of our Crest 3-D White, which is a premium-priced product is evidence of that. I think the demand which caused us to delay the launch of Tide Pods is evidence of that. Innovation is very attractive to these people.

On the other end, you've got the people who are unemployed or seeking employment and they continue to find ways -- try to find ways to cope. Interestingly, that is either by shifting a channel or by shifting a brand, and that is one of the reasons it is so important for us to have a vertical portfolio of brands from -- let's take US laundry as an example -- from Tide Total Care on the high end which is an index of 160 versus Regular Tide in price and is the amalgamation of the world's very best technology we have to clean clothes and also care for fabrics, to on the lowest end, Era, which is an index of 60 versus Regular Tide in price, which is sufficient cleaning for like an empty-nested family without a lot of soil on their clothes. And, that's one of the reasons our strategy necessitates us getting our portfolio, vertical portfolio right, as Jon talked about in his remarks in every single country.

In developing markets, we're continuing to see strong growth. As I said earlier in answer to Joe's question, developing market growth of 9% on average is really strong and it's above the 8% historically we had seen in prior consecutive quarters. So, developing markets are continuing to grow very strongly. And, as we continue to rollout our 250 new category combinations in country white spaces for taking advantage of that growth. That's why, of the 20 new plants or so that we have under construction right now, 19 are in developing markets. So it's a key potential for our growth, because we have a much lower footprint -- lesser footprint today than virtually any of our international competitors in developing markets. So our growth potential in those markets is quite higher and we want to realize that.

OPERATOR: Bill Chappell, SunTrust.

BILL CHAPPELL, ANALYST, SUNTRUST ROBINSON HUMPHREY: Good morning. Just wanted to follow back up on the commodity question, just as even this morning, we're seeing markets spike, including oil. Just trying to understand how much cushion there is since you're not hedging anything to the back half. I mean, what do we see if we do see the volatility towards the upside over the next two or three months and how does that affect your numbers?

JON MOELLER: Well, first I would mention that part of the reason that commodities are spiking this morning is because of the currency dynamics and a lot of the global commodities are denominated in dollars. And so, typically, when we see a commodity help, we typically have a currency hurt; typically when we see a commodity hurt, we typically have a currency help. So those things don't completely offset each other, but they are very interrelated. The other thing I would say is, just given the inventories both in raw materials and finished products, if things moved right now, it would be six months in large part -- things like diesel would be sooner than that, but generally about six months before those items would start rolling through the income statement. So, there's not a ton of risk, though clearly there is some as the year progresses.

BOB MCDONALD: I think it's also important, Bill, to realize that we're working very hard to try to substitute for raw materials that have volatility in price. Not that we would move to the substitute wholesale, but what we want to do is have the ability to replace materials that spike in price. And tonight, for example, we've got our major suppliers into Cincinnati from around the world. And, one of the things I am talking to them about is the application of our R&D spend, which is over $2 billion a year, 50% more than our next largest competitor, and a lot of those PhDs that we have are working to find substitutes for oil-based chemicals and other chemicals which are not renewable. We want to get to 100% use of renewable ingredients for our products and we're working very hard on that. So, over time you're going to see a dislocation between the price of oil and our cost of goods sold.

OPERATOR: Edward Kelly, Credit Suisse.

EDWARD KELLY, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Hi, good morning. Jon, you mentioned wanting to get to a best-in-class cost structure. Can you help us understand where you see the biggest opportunities, over what your time you're talking about, and how we, as investors, should measure this?

JON MOELLER: If you go back to our analyst day materials which continue to be on our website, you can see a dimensionalization of the type of opportunity we think is possible here, in terms of dollars. Having said that, we are truly committed to be best in class and that best in class bogie doesn't stand still. So, there are -- it's a significant effort underway; the timeframe that we've talked about is through 15, 16. Again, as Bob mentioned, we don't want to do this in a way that's disruptive. We have significant growth opportunities in front of us and we want to realize those, while at the same time working very dependably and reliably on increasing productivity.

OPERATOR: Javier Escalante, Consumer Edge Research.

JAVIER ESCALANTE, ANALYST, CONSUMER EDGE RESEARCH: Hi, good morning, everyone. I know that a lot of questions have been on the savings and restructuring, but I guess, if you can revisit this in a slightly different way in terms of, what is the target for 2012 relative to what it was in 2011, both in savings and restructuring? And, then, if you can help us understand how much savings you generated in this quarter and, so we understand better these more controlled aspects of your guidance that is not related to commodities, is not related to the sustainability of the price increases -- are these savings coming from the service centers or is it coming from consolidating MDOs? Anymore physical understanding of what you are doing on the savings side would be helpful. And, if you can, comment what you're going to do with razors and the growth on the disposable market would be great, too. Thank you.

JON MOELLER: Okay, so I mentioned in my remarks that I was providing some preliminary perspective on restructuring. We will provide more detailed perspective at -- when we finalize our plans, which aren't finalized yet. And, when we close the Pringles transaction which should be sometime in the month of December. So, I understand the question, I respect the question, I'd like to answer it with the benefit of our full plan in place as opposed to right now. Bob, do you want to talk about blades and razors?

BOB MCDONALD: In Teri's remarks, when she talked about blades and razors, I think she talked about the fact that we're going to be supporting our entire vertical portfolio of razors and blades. We've been doing this. We've been doing it in Asia, we've been doing it in Latin America; we've been successful against new entrants, both new systems as well as new disposables. And basically, that is the way we operate our business is, we have a full portfolio of products and we support each one of those products against its target consumer with marketing support. And so we are going to be doing that. We have a great portfolio in razors and blades everything from Fusion ProGlide on the top to terrific disposables which are superior to competition on the bottom, all of which will be supported with their relevant consumer market segment.

OPERATOR: Jon Anderson William Blair.

JON ANDERSEN, ANALYST, WILLIAM BLAIR & COMPANY: Good morning. Jon, I think you mentioned early in the call that volume and sales growth progressed positively as the quarter went on, with September being a record sales month. Can you just talk a little bit about what contributed to that? The specific product launches, improvement in specific regions and is that expected to persist? Thanks.

JON MOELLER: There was a general strengthening as we went through the quarter. And, it's not surprising given the pricing dynamics. Typically takes us in a three- to six-months both for competitors to follow and for consumers to digest the new pricing and so, we saw positive developments on both of those fronts as we went through the quarter. I wouldn't attribute it to any specific initiative or geography. It's broad-based.

OPERATOR: Jason Gere, RBC Capital Markets.

JASON GERE, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Thanks, good morning. And I apologize if you did talk about this earlier. Can you just talk about the POS trends, retail destocking -- we've heard a little bit about this just in the back half of the year. But I was just wondering in the US, Europe, what categories you might be seeing pressures -- are there anywhere, the retailers are really trying to manage their inventories a bit better and you're seeing a little bit of pushback contributing to the category weakness?

BOB MCDONALD: Jason, we actually work with retailers around the world to help them reduce their inventory while at the same time reducing ours. We work with them as partners to reduce the total inventory in the supply chain in order to free up cash for them to make their stores more shopable, increase their sales, and for us to get the cash out of our supply chain in order that we can pay our dividends and buy back our stock. I'm not seeing anything extraordinary relative to the work on supply chain inventory other than what does occur and it's obvious, which is, in the last month of any quarter, depending upon the quarter our retailers used to close their quarter, they work to get their inventory down particularly low during that month. But fortunately, all of our retailers have different fiscal years and different quarter structures, so we really don't see that as a one-time event.

JON MOELLER: I was a little bit -- and of course we operate in different categories so that can explain the difference, but I have been a little bit surprised by some of the competitive comments on this front. I would just echo what Bob said -- we really haven't seen a dramatic change.

OPERATOR: Tim Conder, Wells Fargo.

TIM CONDER, ANALYST, WELLS FARGO SECURITIES, LLC: Thank you. Sort of a two-part/one question. First of all, when you go into a new market, in the first year or so where do normally the market share gains come from? And then as you progress into that market over the next say years 3 to 5, where do those market share gains, again, generally come from? And then, in that context, can you comment how -- are those trends the holding in what you are seeing in the markets that you've made a push in in the last couple of years. So that's part one.

Just to circle back on the commodity costs in your guidance, in context of your present planned restructuring sand given the commodity cost, do you see operating margins turning positive as far as year-over-year by the back half of this year? Or, at the latest by the beginning of fiscal '13? Thank you.

BOB MCDONALD: Tim, on your first question, it's really not a variable of time or even competitive company, it's more of variable of consumer market segmentation. So for example, when you want to be like Crest 3-D White, let's take North America as example. You're targeting that toward beauty conscious, oral care consumers. Now, they are obviously health conscious oral care consumers, and they like Crest Pro Health. And, Crest Pro Health then grows amongst that consumer group, taking business from those consumers who want a health offering but find that the competitive health offering isn't quite up to the standard they want. In the case of 3-D White, it comes from the beauty care consumer and there have been brands in the marketplace, competitors in the marketplace offering a beauty care solution that frankly hasn't worked.

And so, we look at it on a consumer group basis rather than on a period of time basis or a competitive company base. Relative to whether or not we hold those, the answer is, yes. And again it comes back to how tightly is your -- how knowledgeable are you on your consumer segmentation, how tightly is your brand offering targeted against that consumer segmentation and how innovative is your product and marketing to deliver the benefit that consumer groups look for? When you look at 3-D White regimen for example, the 3-D White regimen alone has contributed 3 share points to P&G's market-leading value share of 38% in the US.

So, it demonstrates that yes, this is something the consumer wanted and, yes, it's doing extremely well and we continue to grow share overtime. Another example would be Fusion razor and blades which is growing share since it was launched and will continue to grow share. Another example is Pantene in Brazil. I mean, or Oral Care in Brazil. These things grow share over long periods of time.

JON MOELLER: And importantly, to the extent that we are bringing innovation to these markets, generally, too, the markets are growing. So, it's not just a share gain. It's a market growth dynamic and that's a significant source of growth if we do it right. So, it's not as Bob said in some of his earlier marks, it is not zero-sum. Relative to operating margin, not only in the second half but on the fiscal year we expect positive operating margin growth. There's no way you can get to our guidance numbers given the first-quarter results and our second-quarter guidance without assuming significant margin accretion in the second half.

OPERATOR: Alice Longley, Buckingham Research.

ALICE LONGLEY, ANALYST, BUCKINGHAM RESEARCH: Hi, good morning. I have a housekeeping question to follow up, and then my real question. You said volume was down low-single digits in developed regions. Was it down in Europe more than the US, less, or in line? And also could you give us price and mix trends in the developed regions alone? That's my housekeeping.

The follow-up is you said that you were going to broaden your innovation in blades including MACH3 and other more value brands. Can we expect some innovation and more marketing sometime this year in the US? And then the final and related question that's more long-term is, your pre-tax margins in the US are very high. They were, I think 29% last year and had gone up. Can you keep -- those are really high with your strategies to broaden out your price points. Can you keep your margins that high or even expand them?

JON MOELLER: Let me just handle the housekeeping question first and I will turn it over to Bob. But what I suggest, Alice, is that you call John Chevalier after the call and he can help you with any housekeeping that's needed.

BOB MCDONALD: Relative to razors and blades, yes, we do have innovation in the US. Fusion share in the US is now about 36% which is up 1point versus a year ago and we remain the market leader with blades and razors at about 73% share. I think we can grow that a lot more and I think we can grow that a lot more with better marketing and more trial of ProGlide, as an example. We are innovating all across the spectrum of razors and blades. In fact, one of our fastest growing razors and played items is Gillette Guard which we launched in India which is the lowest priced system that's available with replacement blades at about 5 rupees. It's off to a great start and we will be expanding that around the world. So again, the way we think about innovation is we innovate for each discrete consumer segment all along that price or value tier portfolio. And as Jon said earlier, our after-tax margins in developing markets are roughly equal to our after-tax margins in developed markets, so we're doing it in such a way that it is accretive to profit and it is at about the same profit margin.

OPERATOR: Mark Astrachan, Stifel Nicholas.

MARK ASTRACHAN, ANALYST, STIFEL NICOLAUS: Good morning, everybody. Building up from earlier questions about developing market, curious how do you weigh which categories and brands are introduced into these markets, particularly what's the thought process behind an introduction to a category like oral care which has some large-share players and beauty which is more fragmented. And sort of related to that, how do you think about growth in these markets over a longer period of time? I know it has been trending at high-single to low-double digits in recent years.

BOB MCDONALD: The way we think about it, Mark, is that -- do we have a right to win in what is the return on investment. So for example, in oral care we have a unique moment in time where we have acquired the Oral-B business, the leading brush business in the world. We have a formula called Pro-Health or Pro-Sante, or Expert, depending upon the market you're in, which is the very best toothpaste formula you can make for a health-conscious consumer. It is the only one that deals with all seven signs that an oral care professional looks for. And, we were able to figure out how to cost save that formula substantially which lowers the break-even point and increases the return on investment when we launch it.

At the same time we've developed new flavor technology which gives us a competitive advantage versus the leading brand in every market and we've figure out how to segment the consumer in such a way to be able to take advantage of the fact that there are health-conscious consumers, there are beauty-conscious consumers. We address the beauty-conscious consumers with 3-D White; we address the health-conscious consumers with Pro-Health; we address the basic consumers, consumers looking for a basic offering in Complete. And that consumer segmentation is a competitive advantage because, for example, we are a beauty company we know beauty and we're able to offer 3-D White product that our competition probably didn't think about until we had already launched it. So, it's an intersection of a number of those things that prove our right to win. And a high ROI that's why we go for it.

JON MOELLER: And I think on the question of sustainable developing market growth -- we're really on the cusp of something here that is pretty exciting. When you talk about the formation of 250 million middle income households in China in the next 10 years. You combine that economic reality that's true across the developing markets with the aspiration levels of these societies and you're at the beginning, potentially, of a significant growth and trade up cycle that I don't see a near-term end to.

OPERATOR: John San Marco, Janney Capital Markets.

JOHN SAN MARCO, ANALYST, JANNEY MONTGOMERY SCOTT: Thanks, I'd just like to follow up on the last question, please -- about how you make decisions on market-category combinations. On both primary considerations, first, how do you define having the right to win? And then secondly, what is the time horizon on which evaluate those returns on investments before introducing a new category combination? Thank you very much.

BOB MCDONALD: John, generally when we talk about the right to win, we look at the Proctor and Gamble Company's five strengths. Those five strengths are innovation -- do we have a winning innovation; there branding -- do we have a winning brand marketing approach; go to market -- are we able to reach the consumers we want to reach and, as you know, we are trying to add 200 million new consumers to the Proctor and Gamble franchise every year. We're up to 4.4 billion consumers in the world using a Proctor and Gamble product, at least one each year. We want to get to 5 billion consumers by the year 2015. We've been successful in adding 200 million a year since 2009 when we were at 3.8 billion consumers.

Global scale -- do we have global scale? I talked about the importance of the Oral-B brush business to give us an oral care platform around the world. I think I cover -- and consumer knowledge -- do we have the right consumer knowledge which leads to the competitive advantage in consumer segmentation that I described earlier. The interesting thing about consumer segmentation is the company that figures out consumer segmentation and innovates to that segmentation, generally wins and the company that does that generally is the one with scale.

So for example, let's take Family Care in the United States. In family care, in the United States, we've got the Charmin brand -- we have a soft version of Charmin; we have a strong version of Charmin; we have a lotion version of Charmin; we have a basic version of Charmin. Now one competitor is large enough to have that consumer knowledge -- we spend $400 million a year on consumer knowledge; we spend $2 billion a year on research and development. No competitor can match that segmentation. No competitor can design the technology to meet the consumer need in that segmentation. That is a competitive advantage that leads to share growth and profit growth over time.

JON MOELLER: So, we are going to close out the call at this point. I want to thank everybody for joining. We're very happy, again, with our first quarter. We think -- particularly given the pricing that we took that both the top line and the marketshare are indicative of success in that regard. And, we continue to be confident in our fiscal year guidance range. I would encourage you to go to our website to access the slides that I mentioned earlier which will give you more detail on the segment results. And if you have any feedback for us on that presentation or the structure of our interaction, please let us know. Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, that concludes today's conference, thank you for your participation. You may now disconnect and have a great day.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
prgml : The Procter & Gamble Company
   IN
i258 : Cosmetics/Toiletries | icnp : Consumer Products | ipcare : Personal Care Products/Appliances
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | china : China | uk : United Kingdom | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020111110e7ar00461
  


 HD
 Q4  2011  Procter  & Gamble Co Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
12,416 words
   PD
5 August 2011
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©011 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day, ladies and gentlemen. At this time, all participants are in listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session. (Operator Instructions).

   TD
UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE, PROCTER & GAMBLE CO: Good morning and welcome to Procter & Gamble's quarter-end conference call. Today's discussion will include a number of forward-looking statements. If you will refer to P&G's most recent 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K reports, you will see a discussion of factors that could cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from these projections.

As required by Regulation G, P&G needs to make you aware that during the call the Company will make a number of references to non-GAAP and other financial measures. Management believes these measures provide investors valuable information on the underlying growth trends of the business. Organic refers to reported results, excluding the impact of acquisitions and divestitures and foreign exchange, where applicable.

Free cash flow represents operating cash flow less capital expenditures. Free cash flow productivity is the ratio of free cash flow to net earnings. Core EPS refers to earnings per share from Continuing Operations excluding certain items.

The effective tax rate on core earnings represents the effective tax rate on Continuing Operations less non-core impacts. P&G has posted on its website, www.PG.com, a full reconciliation of non-GAAP and other financial measures.

Now, I will turn the call over to P&G's Chief Financial Officer, Jon Moeller.

JON MOELLER, CFO, THE PROCTER & GAMBLE COMPANY: Thanks, good morning, everyone. Bob McDonald and Teri List join me this morning. I'll begin today's call with a summary of our fiscal year and fourth-quarter results. Teri will cover business highlights by operating segment. Then Bob will provide his thoughts on our strategy and focus areas going forward.

And I'll conclude the call with guidance for fiscal year 2012 and the September quarter. We'll take questions after our prepared remarks and we'll be available following the call as always to provide additional perspective, if needed.

We entered fiscal year 2011 with 3 clear objectives. First, to continue executing our purpose-inspired growth strategy to touch and improve more consumers' lives in more parts of the world, more completely. Second, to grow market share. By growing organic sales 1 to 2 percentage points ahead of underlying global market growth rates. Third, to grow core earnings per share in the range of 7% to 9%.

We delivered on each of these objectives, despite significant external challenges including a rapid increase in commodity and energy costs, little to no market growth in developed regions, and market disruptions ranging from political instability in the Middle East and North Africa to the natural disaster in Japan. And we did this while strengthening investments in our innovation and advertising programs.

First, relative to our strategy, we've accelerated the expansion of our product portfolio vertically, horizontally and into new geographies. We entered 32 new category country combinations last year. We entered 78 new category price tier combinations. And we entered 75 new category channel combinations.

In addition, we launched a large number of important product upgrades across the world. Each of these moves enables us to serve more consumers in more parts of the world more completely.

We generated strong organic volume growth, growing 5% for the fiscal year. The growth was broad-based, with increases in 5 of 6 reporting segments, 21 of 24 billion-dollar brands and 15 of our top 17 countries. On a 2-year cumulative basis volume growth is up 10%, ranking P&G toward the top of our global competitive peer group.

We grew organic sales over 4% for the fiscal year, roughly 1 point ahead of underlying market growth of about 3%. This top line growth rate was ahead of last fiscal year's growth rate and generally ahead of the growth rate of our competitive set.

Global market share was up for the year, with 4 of our 5 regions holding or growing share. We held or built market share in businesses representing about 60% of sales, on 17 of our 24 billion-dollar brands, and in 11 of our top 17 countries.

All-in earnings per share was $3.93 for the year. Core earnings per share was $3.95, up 8%. At the midpoint of our initial guidance range for the fiscal year, and consistent with our long-term target range for earnings per share growth.

We delivered on each of our key objectives, strategy, share growth, and earnings per share growth, in a very difficult operating environment. Commodity costs were a year-on-year headwind of more than $1.8 billion before tax.

This was about $1 billion higher than we expected at the beginning of the year. And created an earnings per share headwind of about $0.25 per share, or nearly a 7 percentage point drag on earnings per share growth versus our going-in expectations. Said differently, absent these commodity cost increases, core earnings per share would have been up strong double digits.

Global market growth came in at the low end of our initial expectations due to slow growth in developed regions. For the year, developing markets grew about 8%, but developed markets grew only about 1% on a value basis. Despite the cost and market growth challenges, we remain committed to the execution of our strategy.

We continue to invest in new innovations and market expansions that will deliver long-term growth for the business and returns for our shareholders. We invested $2 billion this past year in research and development. A figure that's increased for the past 2 years, even as we've improved productivity.

We invested $9.3 billion in advertising, or 11.3% of sales, to communicate the benefits of our brands to consumers. Advertising spending has also increased each of the last 2 years and is now $1.8 billion or 24% above what we were investing just 2 years ago.

The combination of substantial cost savings, and both cost of goods and SG&A, and a lower than expected tax rate enabled us to maintain investments in our growth strategy and to offset the rapid increase in commodity costs without sacrificing earnings per share growth.

The all-in effective tax rate for the year was 22.3%, and the core rate was 23.5%. These rates were below historic levels due to a number of successful audit resolutions and the mix benefit from faster growth in developing markets where tax rates are generally lower.

Free cash flow for the year was $9.9 billion, yielding free cash flow productivity of 84%. This was a few points below our target level of 90% of net earnings.

Inventory values were up for the year due to the impact of higher commodity costs. Also we saw an increase in trade receivables due to strong shipments ahead of our price increases toward the end of June.

In April we declared a 9% increase in the quarterly dividend, marking the fifty-fifth consecutive year of dividend increase and one hundred twenty-first consecutive year in which we paid a dividend. We paid $5.8 billion in dividends to shareholders last fiscal year.

We also repurchased $7 billion in P&G stock at the midpoint of our going-in guidance range of $6 billion to $8 billion. Over the past 3 years P&G has returned over $35 billion or about 105% of net earnings from Continuing Operations to shareholders through dividends and share repurchase, generating an effective annual cash return of nearly 7%.

In addition to delivering on our growth objectives we, took meaningful steps to focus and improve our portfolio of businesses. The ones which more fully leverage P&G's core strengths, are demographically advantaged and are in higher-growth, more asset-efficient categories. Early last fiscal year we completed the acquisition of the Ambi Pur business. This acquisition accelerated our expansion of air care products into about 70 new markets and creates a platform for growth to build on the billion dollars of annual sales generated by the Febreze brand.

In March, we announced plans to create a partnership with Teva Pharmaceuticals, which will enable us to expand both the categories and the markets in which we participate in the consumer healthcare space. We're excited about the prospects for our partnership.

Teva brings industry-leading capabilities in product development, drug registration, manufacturing, and pharmacy channel sales to the partnership. We bring our core strengths in consumer and shopper understanding, brand building, and go-to-market capabilities in mass, grocery and high-frequency stores.

We think this combination of capabilities is unmatched in the consumer healthcare industry and may be unmatchable. We continue to pass important milestones toward closing the transaction, including the signing of several key contracts in the last few weeks.

We divested several smaller regional businesses including the Zest and Infasil brands which didn't fully leverage P&G's global scale. In April we announced plans to exit the snacks business, our last remaining food and beverage category. Pringles will be an excellent fit with Diamond Foods. And P&G shareholders will benefit from the value derived from this tax-efficient transaction.

We expect to complete both the Teva and Pringles transactions by the end of this calendar year, and for both to be value accretive for shareholders.

Moving now to fourth-quarter results, organic volume growth was 3%, comparing against a base period where organic volume was up 8%. On a 2-year stacked basis, organic volume is up 5.5%, in line with the strong pace of the last 2 quarters. Volume progress continued to be broad-based with growth in 5 of 6 reporting segments, 16 of 24 billion-dollar brands, and 13 of our top 17 countries.

All-in sales grew 10% including a 5% benefit from foreign exchange, and a roughly neutral impact from acquisitions and divestitures. Organic sales grew 5%, our strongest quarter this year.

We implemented a number of price increases in the June quarter. As expected, we saw a spike in sales during the month of June due to retailer inventory increases ahead of our price increases. We estimate that this dynamic increased organic sales for the quarter by about 1 point, which will obviously have the opposite effect on the September quarter.

Pricing added 3 points to sales growth, due a combination of price increases and reductions in promotional spending, mainly to offset rising input costs. The mix reduced sales by a point as developing markets continued to grow substantially faster than developed markets. Earnings per share were $0.84 for the quarter, up 18% versus last year. Earnings growth benefited from strong sales growth, operating profit margin improvement and the profit from a minor brand divestiture.

Operating profit margin was up 10 basis points versus the prior year. Gross margin was down 120 basis points due to higher input costs. Commodity and energy costs hurt gross margin by approximately 350 basis points, but were largely offset by pricing, cost savings, productivity improvements and volume leverage.

SG&A spending as a percentage of sales was down 130 basis points. While advertising spending was up more than $700 million for the fiscal year, fourth-quarter spending compared to a very strong base period that included investments behind a series of product launches including Gillette ProGlide and Crest 3D White.

Productivity improvements, cost savings and sales leverage also reduced SG&A as a percentage of sales in the quarter. The effective tax rate for the quarter was 21.7%, about 2 points below our going-in expectations for the quarter. But still more than 5 percentage points higher than last year's rate of 16.5%.

Stepping back, we're very pleased with our fiscal year results and the trend of the business. We've made significant steps in advancing our strategy and further strengthening our portfolio of businesses. We delivered strong volume, sales and market share growth.

We grew core earnings per share within our guidance range, within our long-term target range and at a higher rate than the prior year. While investing in both our innovation and advertising programs, and despite significant cost and market growth headwinds. We had a solid cash year and returned through dividends and share repurchase more than 100% of net earnings to shareholders.

Now I'll turn the call over to Teri to review highlights of the business segment results.

TERI LIST, SVP AND TREASURER, PROCTER & GAMBLE CO: Given the amount of information we would like to cover during the call, I'll keep the business comments relatively brief, focusing primarily on the results in the biggest businesses. As Jon indicated, we delivered strong top line growth across our businesses this quarter. And very importantly, we returned to positive price mix.

We had requests for a bit more perspective on market growth rates below the Company level. In the last quarter, beauty and grooming market was up about a little more than 4%, while household care grew a little bit below 3%. This averages out to the underlying market growth of about 3% that Jon mentioned earlier.

Touching on each of the segments briefly. Organic sales in beauty grew 3%, on 2% organic volume growth. 2% positive pricing was offset by geographic and product mix. Within the segment, retail hair care volume increased low single digits with value share up nearly half a point.

Volume declines in North America were more than offset by mid single digit volume increases in developing markets, with Asia and Latin America both up double digits. In Latin America, Brazil had another strong quarter with shampoo and conditioner value share increasing more than 3 points, and Pantene shipments growing more than 30%.

Female skin care shipments grew mid single digits with strength in developing markets offsetting modest declines in developed markets. North America volume declined low single digits primarily due to the Olay UV reformulation and restate that began in the March quarter. We now have all Olay UV SKUs back to full supply.

In developing markets, Olay volume nearly doubled in India and Saudi Arabia and more than doubled in the Philippines behind Olay Regenerist and Natural White.

Our Prestige business was mixed. SK-II grew high teens with strong growth in China behind distribution expansion into 5 additional cities. Prestige fragrance volume was flat following the strong sell-in from product launches in the March quarter. The launches are all doing well, contributing to our leadership position in global Prestige fragrance.

Grooming organic sales and volume grew 1%. 2% of pricing health was offset by geographic and product mix. Male blades and razors volume was flat as developed markets declined high single digits but was offset by volume increases in developing markets.

Asia volume grew high teens led by 25% growth in India. Growth was across the price tiers with Gillette Guard now reaching nearly a 4% share and adding 11 million new users.

North America volume was down double digits due to the high base period that included the Fusion ProGlide launch. Western Europe volume was down mid single digits. Continued growth in Fusion from the recent ProGlide launch was more than offset by declines in Mach 3 due to increased competitive activity.

Moving to healthcare, organic sales were up 7%, behind organic volume growth of 4%. Pricing contributed 4 points with 1% unfavorable product mix.

Global oral care volume increased low single digits with North America up mid single. The Crest 3D White regimen continues to be a key contributor to the growth, increasing to nearly 9% of the US oral care market.

Western Europe volume was flat with softness in manual toothbrushes offsetting growth from our Oral-B toothpaste expansion market. These markets continue to perform well with value share up more than 2 points. While it's still early, our UK Oral-B toothpaste launch is off to a strong start with week-3 shares above 16%, and more positive news even this morning.

Developing markets shipments increased low single digits. In Brazil, Oral-B volume was up over 65%, and value share grew for the ninth consecutive month to about 5% on a national basis. Asia volume was up low single digits, led by India, where Oral-B toothbrush shipments increased nearly 30%.

Feminine care volume was up mid single digits with double-digit growth in developing markets, offset by a modest decline in developed markets. Latin America volume was up double digits behind strong growth in Venezuela and in Brazil behind the Naturella launch.

Greater China was particularly strong where we recently relaunched Always, and introduced a Whisper line extension. Naturella volume in Central and Eastern Europe, Middle East, Africa grew nearly 20%. North America and Western Europe volume is flat while Japan shipments were down behind accelerated market decline from the recent natural disasters.

In snacks and pet care, organic sales and volume were down 1%. Pricing behind increased promotions in the snacks business was negative 1. Mix added 3%, largely from the Natura business.

Snack shipments increased high single digits with developing markets growing over 30%, and developed markets growing low single digits. Latin America volume increased more than 50%, primarily behind distribution expansion into new channels and customers.

Pet care organic volume decreased double digits as we continue to rebuild consumer and customer support after several months of supply constraints. Fabric and home care organic sales grew 4% on a 3% organic volume increase. Pricing contributed 3%, while product mix was negative 1.

Fabric care shipments were up low single digits with balanced growth across developed and developing regions. In developed markets, Japan volume increased double digits, primarily behind pipeline volume from the launch of our super-compacted Ariel in June.

North America volume increased mid single digits. The main drivers were powdered detergent forward-buying related to the June price increases and Downy fabric enhancer volume increases behind the Clean Sheet Week campaign.

Western Europe volume decreased mid single digits, due to increased competitive activity and market decline. In developing markets, Latin America grew double digits, primarily behind liquid detergent growth in Brazil, Argentina and Chile. Asia volume also increased double digits with India laundry volume growing nearly 20% and value share up nearly 3 points.

Shipments in the CEEMEA region declined mid single digits, primarily due to larger price gaps versus competition from recent price increases. Home care organic volume increased mid single digits with all regions growing. North America volume grew low single digits, driven by gain in dish care which is approaching a 5% value share in the US, as well as some forward buying by customers due to the June price increase.

Developing market organic shipments grew double digits. Central and eastern Europe, Middle East, Africa all-in volume increased 20% with growth divided between dish care expansion and the Ambi Pur acquisition. Latin America growth continues to be strong behind the Febreze introduction into Mexico, Brazil and Columbia.

Batteries volume was flat on a global basis as value share increased half a point. Strong volume growth and distribution gains in greater China and CEEMEA was offset by volume declines in Western Europe and Latin America, due to competitive activity.

In baby and family care, organic sales increased 10%. Volume grew 8%; price increases added 3%; geographic mix was a negative 1%. Baby care shipments increased high single digits and global value share was up 1.5 points with all regions growing.

Developed market volume was down slightly behind continued diaper market softness. Developing market volume grew about 20%.

In greater China, India and the Philippines, volume was up over 25%, driven by marketing investments in the Golden Sleep initiative, deeper distribution and market growth. In Venezuela, volume grew over 50%, with increased local product capacity supporting strong consumer demand. In Brazil volume grew over 30% behind distribution gains and increased marketing support.

Family care shipments were up high single digits. North America Charmin was up double digits and Bounty grew high singles. The volume increases were due to a combination of product innovation, and customer forward-buying related to the price increases effective in June.

That concludes the business segment review. I'll hand the call over to Bob.

BOB MCDONALD, PRES., CEO, CHAIRMAN, THE PROCTER & GAMBLE COMPANY: P&G is focused on touching and improving lives, now and for generations to come. This purpose is tightly linked with our financial goal of sustainably delivering total shareholder return in the top third of our peer group. It also informs our strategic choices.

Our overarching growth strategy is to touch and improve the lives of more consumers in more parts of the world more completely. This is a demanding aspiration. There are nearly 7 billion people on the planet today and we want to reach all of them with products and services that make their everyday lives just a little bit better.

This strategy is fundamentally right for P&G because it inspires our people and our partners, it focuses us on the greatest growth opportunities and it leverages our core strengths of consumer understanding, innovation, brand building, go-to-market capability, and global scale.

We know that if we execute this strategy well, we will be rewarded with sales and profit growth, market share leadership, a strong Company reputation that attracts partners, employees, and consumers. Ultimately, we will create value that allows our people, our shareholders, and the communities in which we live and work to prosper.

There are 3 important enablers of this strategy, enablers we call How To Win Choices. And they are innovation, integration, and simplification.

Innovation continues to be at the heart of our success. It's how we serve consumers and it's the engine that drives our growth. We spend about $2 billion a year on research and development. This is about 60% more than our next closest competitor and more than most of our competitors combined. We are constantly working to increase the benefits of our brands and the benefits that they provide to consumers, serving them more completely.

In 2011, we launched many important product upgrades which drove growth. These included Crest 3D White, which was rated the most successful new product launch in the United States last year by Symphony IRI in terms of 1-year sales. 3D White is one of the key reasons we have been able to expand our market share leadership in the United States toothpaste category.

We quickly globalized the Pampers Dry Max absorbency and thinness upgrade from last year. This year we added new 3-way fit upgrade that includes new softness, comfort and aesthetic benefits. This combination of upgrades helped Western Europe Pampers add 2 share points to its market-leading position last fiscal year.

We launched new Pantene upgrades in Asia, that have driven brand past $1 billion in sales in the Asia region alone.

Innovation also enables portfolio expansion to new price tiers. In April, we introduced Pampers Economus in Indonesia to add a mid-priced offering to our diaper portfolio.

Last August, we launched Gain hand dishwashing liquid to expand our offerings in the United States. In November, we launched Head & Shoulders in Brazil at a 25% price premium above Pantene and an even higher premium than market average. We also introduced Head & Shoulders in Indonesia just a few weeks ago, again at a significant premium to the market average.

In blades and razors, we continued the expansion of Fusion ProGlide our premium-priced shaving system. ProGlide is now available in 20 markets and we have plans to add many more countries this year.

In India, we introduced Gillette Guard, the lower entry price point for Gillettte shaving systems. We estimate that more than 11 million new consumers tried Gillette Guard within the past 8 months after launch.

We're serving more consumers in more parts of the world by expanding our innovations to new markets. In 2011, we expanded Olay to 16 new countries, including 2 of the largest facial skin care markets in the world, Brazil and South Korea.

In December, we launched Downy fabric enhancers into Indonesia, our first entry in the fabric care category in this market. We also launched Downy in Brazil in early June.

Last July, we closed the acquisition of Ambi Pur which accelerated our air care expansion by several years. We have quickly moved from playing in just 17 markets to nearly 90 markets through a combination of organic expansions of the Febreze brand and the addition of Ambi Pur.

We took another significant step in the globalization of our oral care portfolio with the June launch of Oral-B toothpaste in the UK. Where, as Teri said, we reached above a 16% share in just 3 weeks. And, we launched in July in Nigeria.

Our innovation is winning. In calendar year 2010, P&G launched 4 of the top 10, and 8 of the top 25 most successful new products in the consumer products industry in North America, as measured by Symphony IRI. For the past 16 years, P&G has had 132 products on the top 25 pacesetter list. That's more than our 6 largest competitors combined.

We're improving the creativity and effectiveness of our advertising, which supports our innovation. At the Cannes Festival of Creativity, P&G earned 32 awards, or Lions, nearly doubling our previous record of 17. And more than double the combined number of Lions awarded to our 6 closest competitors.

P&G was also recognized as the most effective advertiser in the world by Effie Worldwide. As Jon mentioned, we invested 11.3% of sales or about $9.3 billion last year to build awareness, drive trial, and create long-lasting loyalty between consumers and our brands.

Most importantly, we continue to have a robust multi-year pipeline of innovation. Some of the new products coming soon are Downy Unstoppables, Tide Pods, Ariel with micro boosters, and the launch of Lenor laundry detergent in Western Europe.

These are just a few examples of new products that we'll launch this fiscal year in the fabric category alone. We have strong innovation plans across all of our businesses.

To maximize the impact of our innovation and to create competitive advantage, we are integrating to operate more fully as one Company. This is the way we turn our size into scale and our scale into faster growth at a lower cost.

One way we're driving integration is the development of strategic coordinated innovation plans across categories and countries. We have integrated strategic plans for our top 11 emerging markets, several of which are just now entering the first stages of execution.

This integrated strategic planning is enabling us to do integrated manufacturing capacity planning. At any point in time, we have roughly 20 new manufacturing plants in some stage of design or construction.

Today, all of these plants are being designed based on the expectation of multi-category production. This wasn't true before we started our integration work. So far, the business units impacted by our integrated one Company growth plans are growing organic sales at nearly twice the rate they were over the prior 3 years.

To continue investing behind our growth strategy while also delivering solid operating profit growth, we know we must improve productivity in everything we do. Simplification is a critical driver of productivity improvement and we are pursuing opportunities in a wide range of areas. We're working to simplify the business and the processes that support the business.

We know we can grow faster and more profitably with fewer manufacturing platforms, fewer material specifications, fewer brands, and with lower overhead spending as a percentage of sales than we have today. To enable simplification, we are making P&G the most technology-enabled Company in the world.

This will enable us to collaborate more effectively and efficiently, inside the Company and outside the Company, with customers, suppliers, innovation partners, and most importantly, with our consumers.

We are entering fiscal 2012 in a strong position. We delivered organic sales growth and core EPS growth consistent with our initial guidance ranges for the year. And we grew market share globally. We are now reaching roughly 4.4 billion consumers, an increase of about 200 million from this time last year. And 400 million since we began following this strategy 2 years ago.

We increased global household penetration of P&G products to approximately 63%, up about 5 percentage points over the last 2 years, and on track toward our goal of 70% by the year 2015.

While we are pleased with progress we made last year, there's still work to do. We want to accelerate operating earnings growth next fiscal year, while maintaining investments in growth to drive total shareholder return. We are focused on 3 simple priorities to do that.

First, we need to deliver our top line growth objectives. This includes restoring growth in the parts of the portfolio that lagged last year, and maintaining momentum in the parts of the portfolio that are already delivering strong growth. Second, we need to get our price increases executed in the market.

In most categories, P&G is the first Company to increase prices or reduce promotion levels, which creates volume and market share risk and volatility. We need to manage through this intelligently.

Third, we need to continue to improve productivity in all that we do and accelerate our cost-saving efforts across all areas of costs. If we execute our purpose-inspired growth strategy with excellence, build on our successes, take the steps necessary to deal with increasing costs and address our execution shortfalls, we should deliver top and bottom line growth at levels necessary to generate leadership returns for our shareholders.

Thank you for listening. And now I'll turn the call back over to Jon to wrap up with our guidance.

JON MOELLER: Before getting into the guidance details, just a few points of context to discuss. This is the first guidance we've provided for fiscal year 2012 and the July-September quarter. We're providing guidance on the basis of our current operations.

We have 2 pending transactions, exiting the snacks business, and creating the new OTC partnership with Teva Pharmaceuticals which will impact fiscal 2012 results. We'll update guidance for these transactions when the deals close.

Our guidance ranges will be a little bit wider than normal this year, reflecting broad policy uncertainty, ongoing high levels of volatility in market growth rates, input costs and foreign exchange. As well as uncertainty, both upside and downside, related to pricing across the portfolio.

For fiscal year 2012, we expect organic sales growth in the range of 3% to 6%. This is based on the assumption of global market value growth of 3% to 4%, comprised of 1 to 2 points of value growth in developed markets and 6 to 8 points of growth in developing markets. We expect to grow ahead of underlying market levels and build global market share.

We estimate the net impact from pricing and mix will contribute between 1 and 3 points of sales growth for the year. Within this, we expect pricing and lower promotion levels will add 3 to 4 points to sales growth, and that mix will continue to be a sales growth headwind of 1 to 2 points. We estimate foreign exchange will add 2 to 3 points to sales for the year. Which will bring all-in sales growth guidance to a range of 5% to 9%.

On the bottom line, we expect earnings per share in the range of $4.17 to $4.33 for the fiscal year. This equates to earnings per share growth of 6% to 10%, versus base period core earnings per share of $3.95. We feel this wide range appropriately and responsibly reflects the range of possible outcomes. But we would not assign the same probability to all points in the range.

Based on current spot prices, we're anticipating a commodity cost increase of about the same level we faced in fiscal 2011. The combination of pricing, cost savings, and use of alternative materials will offset a large portion of the input cost impacts, but we will still expect to see gross margin contraction for the year. Our approach, as we've described in the past, is to price for the dollar value impact of cost increases. We do not price to cover the margin impact of cost increases.

I can provide a simple example. If you start with our $82.6 billion in sales from last year, and our $40.8 billion in cost of goods, we have a gross margin of 50.6%. If you add $2 billion to both costs and sales, gross margin declines to 49.4%. Or 120 basis point margin headwind, despite fully recovering the cost increases on a dollar basis.

We're continuing to increase our focus on productivity and we expect to make solid progress on SG&A costs as a percentage of sales. We will maintain strong investment levels in innovation and advertising, while continually looking for ways to make these investments yield higher returns. Taking all these parts together, we expect to see solid operating profit growth in fiscal 2012.

We expect an effective tax rate of approximately 25% in fiscal-year 2012, compared to the fiscal 2011 rate of 23.5%. The higher tax rate creates a 2 percentage point earnings per share growth headwind. At a flat year-on-year tax rate our core earnings per share growth guidance will be approximately 8% to 12%.

We're forecasting a modest increase in capital spending to between 4 and 5 percentage points of sales. The increase is due mainly to new capacity being installed in developing countries and to support the current growth trends being driven by our innovation and expansion plans. We still expect free cash flow productivity of around 90% of net earnings, but this will be a more challenging year due to the increase in capital spending.

We expect to continue our track record of providing a strong effective cash yield to our shareholders through a combination of dividends and share repurchase. Based on the trends of the past few years, we'll likely pay out around $6 billion in dividends, and we're estimating that we will repurchase around $6 billion in stock during fiscal 2012.

This figure excludes the expected reduction in shares implicit in the Pringles reverse Morris trust split merge. At our current market capital of about $170 billion, the combination of base dividends and share repurchase should generate an effective cash return of about 7% for our shareholders before including any upside potential from stock price appreciation.

Before moving to the September quarter, I want to remind you again that the guidance I've just provided excludes the impacts of Teva and Pringles. As we did with Folgers, we're evaluating a range of options for our base restructuring plan and potential incremental restructuring, which could offset ongoing earnings dilution from the exit of the Pringles business. We'll update guidance for all of the impacts of these deals including our restructuring plans after these transactions close.

Moving to July-September quarter guidance, there are several factors impacting our view of likely top line outcomes. We're building our plans on the assumption of declining decline unit volume in developed markets being roughly offset by higher pricing leading to essentially flat category value growth. In developing regions we expect market value growth in the range of 6% to 8%, consistent with recent trends. Combined, we expect global market value growth of about 2 to 3 points for the September quarter. As I mentioned in the discussion of the June quarter results, volume shift related to recent pricing actions helped the June quarter by about 1 point. September quarter guidance includes the offsetting decline.

You should note we're up against our most difficult volume comparison for the year. Volume was up 8% in the September quarter last year, driven in part by strong shipments of big innovations in baby care, hair care and blades and razors. Taking all these factors into account, we're estimating organic sales growth in the range of 2% to 4%.

We expect pricing and mix to provide combined net benefits of 1 to 2 points. And we're estimating that foreign exchange will help sales by 4 to 5 points, which leads to all-in sales growth guidance in the range of 6% to 9%.

We expect to hold or build market share in the majority of our businesses, but as I mentioned we're planning on an increased level of share volatility due to pricing changes.

In most cases P&G will be the first Company in our product categories to increase pricing which may temporarily put our brands at a consumer value disadvantage. We believe the pricing changes we've announced or will soon announce are necessary to recover higher input costs; however, we won't put our brands at long-term competitive value disadvantage.

If we see this happening, we'll take corrective action. This could include temporarily spending back a portion of the price increase to close a consumer value gap. Or in the most extreme scenario it could include fully rescinding a previously implemented price increase.

On the bottom line, the September quarter will be the most challenging period of the year. We'll face the most difficult commodity cost comparisons without having fully realized the offsetting benefits from pricing. And we will likely have our smallest quarterly benefit from volume leverage.

We expect September quarter earnings per share to be roughly in line with last year, so we're providing a range of $1 to $1.04, or down 2% to up 2% versus the base period of $1.02 per share. As we look beyond the September quarter we expect profit growth to accelerate throughout the year.

We will have an increasing benefit from pricing, an accelerating contribution from savings and the year-on-year gap in commodity costs will narrow, assuming prices stay near current market rates. For example, we expect resins to be up 20% to 30% in the first half of the fiscal year, but we expect these to be up only low single digits toward the end of the fiscal year.

Also, key surfactants used in detergents will be up as much as 40% early in the year but should be up only modestly by the end of the year. As you know, we faced a similar dynamic going into last fiscal year with low earnings per share growth forecast in the first half and higher growth in the back half. We delivered at the midpoint of our initial guidance range despite several unforeseen significant headwinds; we're confident we can deliver this year.

That concludes our prepared remarks and now Bob, Teri and I would be happy to take your questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Bill Smith from Deutsche Bank.

BILL SMITH, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Good morning. Can you just talk about the difference between the US growth and the emerging markets growth? Because it seems like most of the margin challenges relate to the US just being really soft. Because market share-wise, it seems like things are pretty good but then you look at some of the reports of sales growth in the US and it's pretty disappointing. So is there a way to triangulate that because we all know that the US is a very, very high margin business?

BOB MCDONALD: I can comment on the market sizes and maybe Jon can talk about the margins. In the fourth quarter, we said the global market value growth was about 3% based upon our geographic mix of business. Developed markets were flat to slightly positive for the quarter and developing markets continue to have solid growth of about 8% on average. Our expectations for 2012 are to have global market value growth of 3% to 4%, Bill. This assumes developed markets grow 1% to 2%, and developing markets grow 6% to 8%. So we're expecting essentially no growth in developed markets on a volume basis, with any value growth driven by higher pricing, as Jon discussed in his remarks.

JON MOELLER: If you just look at sales for the last quarter, Bill, your observation would be correct. In developed markets we grew about 1 pont. Developing markets, we grew about 14 points. And so that is part of the dynamic going forward.

OPERATOR: Nik Modi of UBS.

NIK MODI, ANALYST, UBS: At a very high level, P&G stock is up about 5% in total over the past 5 years. Granted, the environment's been tough but the stock's underperformed almost every one of its peers and the broader staples universe. Do you think more drastic actions need to be taken to deliver the type of returns you aspire to? Can you just provide any general context around that?

BOB MCDONALD: Nik, I think we have the right strategies now and I think you're seeing them have an impact in the marketplace. Our purpose has always been to touch and improve lives, but I think now we are much more deliberate about executing our strategy in order to reach more consumers, more parts of the world, more completely. And in areas where you see that we're doing that, we're being very successful. As Jon talked about, over the last year we've entered 32 new category country combinations. Wee entered 78 new category price tier combinations. And we've entered 75 new category channel combinations. In addition to that, we launched a number of upgrades. And these things are having a dramatic impact on the competitive situation in the marketplace.

We talked about the recent launch of oral care in the United Kingdom and we talked about the fact that the week 3 share was about 16%. We just got the week 4 share this morning and it's 19.5% for paste, which takes us to leadership of the oral care category for the first 4 weeks with our share up 30%. So these things take time to have action but we're being much more deliberate about it. I'm quite encouraged, actually.

JON MOELLER: We're also, as I mentioned, Nik, looking at opportunities relative to the Pringles divestiture to increase the savings component that's delivered by restructuring. So we're very cognizant of that opportunity, as well. And I apologize, this will sound a little bit defensive, but I can't leave out our significant dividend as you think about returns from our stock. So it's more than just price appreciation. We're throwing off a pretty large chunk of cash here.

OPERATOR: John Faucher with JPMorgan.

JOHN FAUCHER, ANALYST, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: So Jon, in terms of looking at your guidance, there's no question you highlighted the fact that the raw materials should end up being a negative on the gross margin line. And you've got all these below the line items which have been favorable in terms of tax and corporate, and which will probably be less favorable looking forward. So what it really boils down to is FX a little bit but mostly the SG&A ratio. So can you talk to us a little bit about how we should map out the SG&A ratio over the next year in terms of how much leverage do you think you can get there and what's the brand investment growth like relative to some of the cost saves that you think you can pull out? Thanks.

JON MOELLER: I would expect, John, that in terms of -- the last couple years you've seen increases in investment levels in the advertising component of SG&A that are disproportionate to sales growth. Those should be proportionate going forward. So we'll continue to maintain very strong levels of support. But it shouldn't be a drag on SG&A leverage. And then we're going to continue, as we've talked about, to focus on productivity and we expect to be reducing the non-advertising, non-R&D portions of SG&A as a percentage of sales fairly significantly as we move forward here. And then there's obviously sales leverage that drives all of that. So we would expect the SG&A as a percent of sales number to continue to come down pretty meaningfully.

OPERATOR: Lauren Lieberman from Barclays Capital.

LAUREN LIEBERMAN, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Just to follow up on that, when we think about developed markets, when you think beyond 2012, because I know you guys think about the business in more than 1-year increments, for sure, are you starting to build into your assumptions that we are in a sustained very low single digit volume growth, or flat to 2% volume growth environment going forward in developed markets, and that that would inform how you want your cost structure to look going forward? Thanks.

BOB MCDONALD: Thanks, Lauren. We're actually working against 2 plausible scenarios. The obvious thing we're doing is we're continuing to invest in innovation. We talked about that, the $2 billion we spend in R&D which is much more than our competition. And we're working to develop new categories that we aren't even in today. And we know when we do that, our North American, Western European and Japanese businesses grow very strongly. So we are working to innovate in order to get top line growth. At the same time, we're looking at no market growth kinds of scenarios and making sure we put together a cost structure that would allow us to deliver our profit guidance if there is no market growth in these markets. As you know, our goal is to grow 1 and 2 points above the market. But if the market doesn't grow, we've got to have a cost structure that allows us to deliver the kind of returns we're promising.

OPERATOR: Chris Ferrara from Merrill Lynch.

CHRIS FERRARA, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: So Jon, the language you used around the pricing struck me a little and I just wanted to see if it should. The fact that you're reiterating that or noting that you would deal some of this stuff back or you would even rescind the price increases if necessary. So, can you characterize what you've encountered so far? Has pricing been a tougher go than what you thought it would be or has it not?

JON MOELLER: Thanks, Chris. There's been no change in terms of our expectations. So I apologize if I unintentionally communicated that. I'm just stating our 2 points of intentionality. One is to get price increases reflected which we're working to do and making good progress on. And second, that over reasonable periods of time, we have to continue to make sure that we remain competitive in the marketplace. Those 2 things are not opposed to each other. They're part of 1 activity system. And I just thought it was important that both parts be understood. Things are going pretty much as we expected so far. But it's early.

BOB MCDONALD: Chris, as you reiterated the alternatives for effectively moving pricing up, one that you left out is reducing promotion spending. And we are doing that in parts of our business, as well.

OPERATOR: Ali Dibadj from Bernstein.

LI DIBADJ, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & CO.: I just have a quick modeling question and then a real one. On the modeling question, given the kind of repeated, at least for us, unexpected importance of nonoperating drivers like taxes and nonoperating income to your EPS delivery, could you maybe give us more guidance about those going forward? That's the modeling part. Then the real question is, you're big, you're supposed to get scale, but relative to your competitors who are leaner, you're not really on a cost base. So have you thought about going the other direction in terms of becoming more focused? And I understand this is topical. So, in other words, you can choose to get scale leveraged through something like a cost cutting restructuring above what your competitors are doing. That sounds like you're finally contemplating. Or you can choose to be more focused by breaking up. How do you think about that trade-off to better touch and improve investors' lives as well?

BOB MCDONALD: Let me start with the second part and maybe Jon will want to talk about the modeling, Ali. One of the things that we've done over the last few years is we've become much more deliberate about turning our size into scale and turning that scale into growth. I talked about in my remarks integration and the fact that we're going to market as 1 Company. In the categories in country combinations where we've done that, we basically have doubled the growth versus historic levels. I also talked about the fact that now when we build a new factory, and we have 20 under construction, roughly, that they're multi-category factories rather than single category. We're at the early stages of this and I think what you're going to see over time is that this is going to become more and more important to our business.

For example, in 2012, we have our sponsorship of the London Olympics. We'll be sponsoring every Olympic team in the world. We'll be thanking mothers all over the world. And when we did that in Vancouver it was our highest rate of return marketing activity virtually ever. So I think you're going to see accelerated growth.

At the same time, we're working very hard to get this Company restructured and ready for the future. Last year's restructuring spending I think was about $250 million or so. That was relatively low. But we're always looking to flatten the hierarchy of the Company. If you look at what we've done relative to the hierarchy of the Company, we've flattened the hierarchy of the Company. We're trying to simplify our operations. And as I said, we're trying to deliver profitability, TSR in the top third of our peer group, even in a no market growth scenario in developed markets. So I think in the end we will convince you by the numbers we deliver rather than the statements that we make. But we are very serious about becoming the most productive Company and taking advantage of that size to turn in higher growth rates.

JON MOELLER: In terms of the first part of your question, Ali, I talked in my remarks about the impact of tax year to year and the rate that we're forecasting for next year which is 25%. John Chevalier can walk you through more of that as you both have time. And from an other nonoperating income standpoint, we'll continue to have some level of minor brand divestiture activity as we have for each of the last 10 years, so there will be nonoperating income there. I don't expect it to be a big driver of our growth in any way going forward. If anything, it should be down a little bit. Again, John Chevalier can take you through that.

BOB MCDONALD: Ali, maybe give you some more facts on what I was describing. Over the last 3 years we've reduced our general management by about 16%. The next level down, we reduced by about 10%. Certainly we've got more work to do to become more productive. But we've reduced our enrollment by about 5% over the past 5 years. And I think you're going to see us work very, very hard on productivity as we go forward in the future.

OPERATOR: Joe Altobello from Oppenheimer.

JOE ALTOBELLO, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER & CO.: Just a couple quick questions. First for Jon. I'm just trying to put together a few things you said this morning about the higher tax rate next year, et cetera. And Bob mentioned earlier one of his goals this year is to accelerate operating income growth. It was down a little bit last year. It sounds like what you're saying is you're actually expecting operating income growth for fiscal '12 to actually exceed EPS growth. Is that the case? And secondly you mentioned promotion spending is going to be down this year. Can you quantify for us how much roughly promotion spending will be down?

JON MOELLER: On the first one, we would expect operating earnings growth to be about in line with earnings per share growth. Tax will be a headwind and then share repurchase a tailwind to get you back to the EPS numbers. And then we're not going to comment on line items within line items. So we're not going to give guidance on promotion. What I would tell you is that generally we would expect promotion levels to come down as part of the pricing mechanism that Bob described. The reason I'm hesitant to give you an exact number, though, is this is something we look at on a daily basis and it's going to depend in part on how competitors respond to our price increases. There may be situations, as I detailed in my remarks, where we might have to temporarily increase promotion to stay price competitive. So it's something we look at on a daily basis. The general directional trend, certainly the desired trend is down. As we're fond of saying, promotion wins quarters and innovation wins decades. We would much rather spend a dollar on innovation or equity building than we would on promotion.

OPERATOR: Connie Maneaty from BMO Capital.

CONNIE MANEATY, ANALYST, BMO CAPITAL MARKETS: One simple question first and then a real question. What was battery sales growth in the US? I didn't see it in the press release or hear it in the comments. Then on the simplification effort you're going through, what level of restructuring is already embedded in the fiscal '12 outlook? And is it likely that as you close Teva and Pringles, you get to a level of restructuring that envisions a separate restructuring charge?

BOB MCDONALD: Okay. First, on batteries in North America, I honestly don't know that number. Jon will so feel free to follow up with him. In terms of restructuring, as I indicated in my remarks, we're still formulating our restructuring thoughts for the year ahead. I mentioned Folgers for a reason. You'll remember that at that point when we divested the Folgers business we increased restructuring fairly significantly and we did have a separate non-core charge as a result of an effort to eliminate the stranded overhead and minimize dilution. And we're contemplating something similar on Pringles. We don't have it fully baked yet but we'll update you on that when we announce the closure of that deal.

JON MOELLER: I don't think there's any question, given the number of questions we've gotten about this, but I don't think there's any question and if someone looks back at our Company 10 years from now, they'll wonder if the leadership of the Company at this time took the right steps to move the center of gravity of the Company more toward Asia, more toward Africa, where the babies are being born, where the new households are being formed. And certainly we've been in the midst of that and you're going to continue to see us make announcements and do things to get ready for the future, because that's where the future is as we try to get to all the people on the planet and have products for them to improve their lives.

OPERATOR: Jason Gere from RBC.

JASON GERE, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: I wanted to talk about the reduction in the trade spending and obviously it's part of the driver to getting net pricing. Can you talk maybe a little bit about the laundry category? I know that's one area where you're trying to reduce the levels. One of your competitors showed some doubt, whether that's coming through. It's possible that might be just at the low end of the spectrum. But I just wanted to get your thoughts on your goal to reduce some of the trade spending in laundry and how that's playing out.

BOB MCDONALD: Thanks, Jason. I think you're referring to a conversation with Church & Dwight yesterday. They did cite increasing promotion in the liquid section of the laundry market. I believe they attributed that to Henkel. Our desire continues to be, again, from a strategic standpoint, to prioritize investments in equity building and innovation. And really saying anything more than that on a very specific granular question would be inappropriate.

OPERATOR: Javier Escalante from Consumer Edge Research.

JAVIER ESCALANTE, ANALYST, CONSUMER EDGE RESEARCH: If you could please revisit the SG&A line for us for 2011 and what's your plan for 2012. You took out already of advertising, about 8% to 9% in '11, you didn't trigger the volume lift that you expected given the lack of market growth in the US and Europe so that is over. But I would like you to discuss more about the strategic more long-lasting investment that you are making in go-to-market capabilities, as you enter a new channel of categories, all these matrix that you talk about it. And the push in Brazil and India that I believe may not be for free in the SG&A line. So if you could ballpark for us the growth in selling and distribution expenses as opposed to G&A itself in 2011, and how we should think about that in 2012. Thank you.

JON MOELLER: I think in terms of total go-to-market expenses, the selling portion of SG&A, you're absolutely right that we're increasing our investments in markets where we're expanding distribution, expanding our portfolio. You mentioned India. You mentioned Brazil. Those are clearly 2 cases where that's true. We're also working on productivity initiatives, though, in markets that are slower growth. And so net, we would expect to see selling costs increase in line with sales or maybe fall a little bit below the sales line, while building the infrastructure that we need in developing markets.

OPERATOR: [Pur Osman], Jefferies & Company.

PUR OSMAN, ANALYST, JEFFERIES & CO.: Jon, I wonder if you could just provide a little bit of an order of magnitude on the commodity cost headwind. I think on the March quarter report I think you characterized it as about $1.8 billion aftertax hit. I'm just curious as to maybe where that came in for the year and then how you look ahead at where that shapes up currently for fiscal '12. And then where your confidence lies in terms of how it improves in the second half, vis-a-vis the first. Thanks.

JON MOELLER: So, first of all, as has been pointed out many times internally here, I misspoke on last quarter's call and referred to a BT number as an AT number. So the $1.8 billion is the correct number. That's a BT number. My fault for confusing you. We're looking at the same type of impact 2012 versus 2011. So another $1.8 billion, roughly $2 billion, before tax. In terms of how that falls out by quarters, I took you through some of the specific input cost dynamics and how those play through. We basically base our forecasts on spot markets. I'm not talking about spot that happened yesterday but maybe spot of last week. And if you just do the math and take spot in a quarter this year, first through fourth, and compare it to first through fourth last year, you still have a very negative comparison in the first quarter and a very benign comparison in the fourth quarter. One additional piece of perspective, as we mentioned, the commodity cost impact in the quarter we just completed was 350 basis points negative on gross margin. That's the same kind of dynamic you're dealing with in our first quarter. But it should be, again, very minor or even positive by the time we get to the fourth quarter.

OPERATOR: Tim Conder from Wells Fargo Securities.

TIM CONDER, ANALYST, WELLS FARGO SECURITIES: Just broadly a clarification, Jon. In the guidance that you gave you're saying again that you should see operating profit growth in line with EPS. And, therefore, implying operating margin expansion and that is prior to anything that you're doing with Pringles or Teva. So just more of a clarification from that perspective, if you could, sir.

JON MOELLER: Given the gross margin dynamic, while we're expecting operating earnings increases along the lines that you cited, we're not expecting operating margin expansion, again, held back by that gross margin line.

OPERATOR: Alice Longley from Buckingham Research.

ALICE LONGLEY, ANALYST, BUCKINGHAM RESEARCH: My question is about the nature of innovation that you're planning in developed regions where the markets aren't doing so well and the consumer's weak. You've done well over the last couple of years in some categories like tissue, towel, by putting out value versions along with your premium-priced versions. What are you thinking about doing something similar to that in some of your other categories? Blades comes to mind because you're doing so badly in blades now. Also, detergents and shampoos. Might you push mid-priced or value versions ahead more than you have?

BOB MCDONALD: I think, Alice, what we said is we have a stated strategy of our Company to have a value tier of portfolio. So no matter the price point, the consumer wants to spend, we have something there. In the case of blades, we do have a full portfolio, from Fusion ProGlide on the top to disposables on the bottom. All priced very differently. I think what we've done in the past is we've supported the high end probably more than the low end and what we need to do is make sure that we get appropriate support across that portfolio so that every consumer we want to reach gets the appropriate blade and razor. On that one, I think we have the portfolio. But we may not have executed the marketing yet to grow share consistently.

Secondly, in laundry, again, as I said in my remarks, we've got Tide Total Care on the top. We've got Cheer and Era on the bottom. Again, we have the portfolio there. Again, what we need to do is develop the big ideas to get that portfolio into the hands of consumers and grow that business. So in those cases, I think we have the portfolio. In hair care, we probably have the portfolio of brands but I think we need to separate the pricing a little bit more because I think the pricing is probably too bunched up.

So it's rather a 3-step process. One is get the portfolio in, number of brands, number of selections. Number 2, spread the pricing enough that consumers see the difference. And number 3, market those discrete items to the consumer group that it's attractive to. And as you say, that's what we've done in tissue, towel and many of our other categories quite successfully.

OPERATOR: Jon Andersen from William Blair.

JON ANDERSEN, ANALYST, WILLIAM BLAIR & COMPANY: I just had a quick question on the multi-year innovation pipeline. Bob, you talked about the new category, country combinations, price tier combinations and channel combinations achieved in 2011. I was wondering if you could characterize the portfolio expansion plan for fiscal 2012, both in terms of the quantity and the quality relative to what we saw in the last year. Thank you.

BOB MCDONALD: Thank you, Jon. It's very similar to what we have this year. And as we laid out in our analyst meeting, by the time we get to 2015, the average number of categories in each country in Procter & Gamble territory will go from 19 to 24. And we'll be reaching 5 billion people versus the 4.4 billion we're reaching today. And as we increase the number of categories in each country, you should assume that that is a full vertical portfolio of priced products, not just a single product. At the same time, we're also working our innovation program to develop wholly new categories, similar to when we launched Swiffer some years ago.

OPERATOR: Linda Bolton-Weiser from Caris & Company.

LINDA BOLTON-WEISER, ANALYST, CARIS & COMPANY: Just one quick question on guidance clarification. You had said for FY '12 that operating income growth would be roughly in line with EPS growth. How does that work out for the first quarter? Is that the same for the first quarter of FY '12? Also, a bigger picture question, more on M&A. Bob, I was interested in your thoughts on how your home care business ranks these days in terms of strategic priority. Clearly, Beauty and personal care continues to be the top strategic priorities. But given that Clorox seems to be a little bit more in play here, do you think you have adequate scale in home care with the Ambi Pur acquisition? Or do you think that there could be other things that would add scale to that business, which is less big than the other strategic areas? And also, on M&A, maybe you could comment on your organic growth efforts in Prestige color cosmetics and whether you're happy with those efforts or whether you could use some more M&A activity there. There are a lot of brands in that universe and maybe you need to pick up the acquisition activity to start building more presence in Prestige cosmetics. Thanks.

JON MOELLER: So I'll handle the first part of the question. Then I'll turn it back to Bob. We would expect operating margin to be down in the first quarter. And operating earnings to be growing, not as well as on a fiscal year basis, again, given that significant gross margin impact. John can help you more with that as we go through the day.

BOB MCDONALD: Linda, relative to M&A, we don't comment on specific opportunities of either acquisitions or divestitures. What I can tell you is this, is that we work hard to develop growth plans that meet our goals, long-term goals organically. And when I look at the growth potential of the plans we've got, I'm very happy with it. When I look at the innovation program, we've got, I'm very happy with it, as well. While we do do acquisitions, and certainly Ambi Pur was a wonderful acquisition for us because it expanded our footprint in air care from roughly 17 countries to over 80, the acquisitions are difficult for us to do. Typically, we don't do hostile takeovers. Number 2, the value's got to be right because we try to be good stewards of the cash that our shareholders give us. And number 3, it's got to make strategic sense for our business. So acquisitions tend to be a relatively high bar for us. We do do them. But it's a relatively high bar. And certainly it's not an excuse for any of our businesses not to have growth plans that deliver the growth goals organically.

OPERATOR: Mark Astrachan from Stifel Nicolaus.

MARK ASTRACHAN, ANALYST, STIFEL NICOLAUS: One clarification and one question. Jon, is it fair to assume that input cost pressure peaks in the September period? And then on the Beauty business, can you talk a bit about, in the context of mixed results and turnover in personnel, how you think about whether P&G is a net share gainer or loser longer term?

JON MOELLER: So on the first question, yes, the comparison on commodities should be the worst in the first quarter. And then it should improve from there forward.

BOB MCDONALD: Relative to the Beauty business, Mark, I would never say we're doing well enough in any of our businesses, whether it's Beauty or Household. Beauty has delivered 8 consecutive quarters of organic sales growth. Our big brands grew globally in 2011, including Pantene, Head & Shoulders, Olay, Venus and SK-II. Importantly, the global Pantene business continues to perform well. Global shipments grew mid single digits over the year with double-digit growth in developing regions. And market share's growing on a global basis including good share progress in Japan, Brazil and India. And in Japan Pantene just became the leading hair care brand. Olay is also driving strong results outside North America where, of course, we had the UV recall. Skin Care shipments in developing markets increased double digits in the June quarter. As the geographic and portfolio expansions of Olay continue to deliver strong growth.

In the US, where we had a few design and assortment issues on Pantene, we responded by launching 7 new 2-in-1 SKUs and 5 new large size SKUs with a new marketing campaign, which have all gotten strong retailer support so far. And we're also working to rebuild the Pantene equity. But that will take time and it will take time to return share and consumption to historic levels. Olay's driving strong results outside of North America. Skin Care developments in developing markets increased double digits in the June quarter. As the geographic and portfolio expansions of Olay, as I said, delivered strong growth. And as I said, the reason US Olay declined in AMJ was due to the Olay UV reformulation restage that began in the March quarter. But we resumed those Olay UV product shipments by the end of June. So I think overall, we will be a net share gainer in Beauty and Grooming, no question in my mind.

OPERATOR: Caroline Levy from CLSA.

CAROLINE LEVY, ANALYST, CLSA LIMITED: I was just was wondering if I could have a little color on China overall. You did give some category growth. But really if you would compare and contrast China, Russia, Brazil, the total portfolios, if you could talk about how you're doing in those 3 major growth markets.

BOB MCDONALD: In China, Caroline, we are the leading consumer goods company with about, in greater China, about $5 billion in sales. That's about 3.5 to 4 times the next largest competitor. Having said that, we're only in about 15 categories in China. I think we entered 3 over the last year and we have plans to continue to enter new categories there. And the average Chinese spends less than $3 a year on Procter & Gamble products. But in the United States, the average American spends nearly $100. So while we're leading, while we're growing, we're growing strong double digits, we still have work to do to get the rest of our categories in there and to accelerate the growth. Do you want to go market by market?

JON MOELLER: Brazil and India also continue to be extremely quickly growing. They're growing actually faster than China. Think of that as 20% plus growth rates where China's somewhere in the low double-digit to mid-teens level and we continue to see all 3 of those markets as offering significant opportunities for profitable growth going forward.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, that concludes today's conference. Thank you for your participation. You may now disconnect. Have a great day.

BOB MCDONALD: Thanks, everybody.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
prgml : The Procter & Gamble Company
   IN
i258 : Cosmetics/Toiletries | icnp : Consumer Products | ipcare : Personal Care Products/Appliances
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | c32 : Advertising | c15 : Performance | c31 : Marketing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | uk : United Kingdom | china : China | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020110819e7850063h
  


 HD
 Q3  2011  Procter  & Gamble Co Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
12,346 words
   PD
28 April 2011
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©011 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day, ladies and gentlemen. At this time, all participants are in listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session. (Operator Instructions).

   TD
UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: Welcome to Procter & Gamble's quarter-end conference call. Today's discussion will include a number of forward-looking statements. If you will refer to P&G's most recent 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K reports, you will see a discussion of factors that could cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from these projections.

As required by Regulation G., P&G needs to make you aware that during the call, the Company will make a number of references to non-GAAP and other financial measures. Management believes these measures provide investors valuable information on the underlying growth trends of the business. Organic refers to reported results, excluding the impact of acquisitions and divestitures and foreign exchange, where applicable.

Free cash flow represents operating cash flow less capital expenditures. Free cash flow productivity is the ratio of free cash flow to net earnings. Core EPS refers to earnings per share from continuing operations, excluding certain items. The effective tax rate on quarter earnings represents the effective tax rate on continuing operations, less noncore impacts.

P&G has posted on its website, www.PG.com, a full reconciliation of non-GAAP and other financial measures. Now, I will turn the call over to P&G's Chief Financial Officer, Jon Moeller.

JON MOELLER, CFO, THE PROCTER & GAMBLE COMPANY: Thanks. Good morning, everyone. Bob McDonald and Teri List join me this morning. I will begin today's call with a summary of our third-quarter results. Teri will cover business highlights by operating segment. And I will conclude the call with guidance for the fiscal year and the June quarter. Bob, Teri and I will take questions after our prepared remarks, and as always, following the call, will be available to provide additional perspective as needed.

I thought it might be helpful before getting into the details to step back for a minute and start our discussion this morning with a broad view of the state of our business and several of the key factors that have been impacting it, positively and negatively, this quarter and fiscal year.

There are many more positives than negatives. Our innovation and expansion efforts have created strong, broad-based organic volume growth momentum. Fiscal year to date, five of six business segments, 15 of our top 17 countries and 21 of our 24 billion-dollar brands have grown volume versus the prior year.

This has translated into sales growth ahead of market rates, and in-line or higher market share in businesses representing over 60% of sales. Year to date, market share is in-line or higher in all geographic regions and 14 of our top 17 countries and for 18 of our 24 billion-dollar brands.

Our top line growth in developing markets has been particularly strong. Volume was up double digits through the first three quarters. We are growing sales ahead of underlying market rates and building market share broadly.

Another positive is the early progress we are making to fill in white spaces in our business portfolio across geographies, price tiers and channels. So far this year, we've introduced roughly 30 products into new category country white spaces, 70 products into new category price tiers and have entered 80 new category channel combinations.

Pricing, as we said it would at the beginning of the fiscal year, has turned positive, and is now adding to organic sales growth. We know that there have been investor concerns about either our pricing math or our pricing attentions. Hopefully, the positive pricing impact in this quarter's results and in our guidance for the fourth quarter will resolve any remaining concerns.

We have delivered solid cost savings of about 150 basis points on average per quarter. Cost savings have and will continue to be a key focus for us as they help us buffer higher input costs and provide the fuel for investment and innovation and expansion opportunities.

We've continued to enjoy favorable tax audit outcomes. These are further validation of the sustainability of the organization structure we established several years ago. They enable us to release tax reserves to profit and reduce our ongoing tax rate due to lower reserve requirements. Likewise, the continued mix shift of our business toward developing markets is a sustained change that is resulting in a lower ongoing average tax rate, which I will talk more about later.

We continue to be a very strong cash producer. Over the past three years, we've generated about $35 billion in free cash flow, and we've returned essentially 100% of that value back to shareholders in the form of dividends and share repurchase.

We've taken meaningful steps to focus and improve our portfolio of businesses. We are working to finalize our partnership arrangement with Teva Pharmaceuticals, which will enable us to expand both the categories and the markets in which we participate in the consumer healthcare space.

We've also announced plans to exit the Snacks business, our last remaining food and beverage category. We expect both of these transactions to be completed toward the end of this calendar year and for both to be value accretive for shareholders.

These positives all point to a strategy that is working and to a healthy business with positive momentum. We are, though, managing several headwinds. The first is slower than expected market growth in developed markets. These markets account for about two thirds of our sales, and their underperformance has reduced our total Company growth rate by nearly a full percentage point this fiscal year. The best response to slow market growth is innovation. We are very well-positioned here, which is enabling us to grow faster than underlying market rates.

In Western Europe, for example, we've grow market share for 15 consecutive months. This compares to retailer brands, which offer less innovation, and have lost share for nine consecutive months.

In the US, we've held or grown market share for 13 consecutive months. And retailer brands, while flat last month, lost share the five previous months.

We are also facing rapid and significant increases in commodity costs. Since the beginning of the fiscal year, the year-on-year impact from higher costs has more than tripled. We now estimate that materials and energy costs will be up roughly $1.8 billion before tax for the year. In the March quarter alone, input costs are up more than $400 million before tax versus prior year, or about $0.10 per share.

We are taking a holistic approach to the commodity cost increases we are facing. First, we are turning up the dial on our productivity and cost-savings initiatives. As I mentioned earlier, for the first three quarters of this fiscal year, we have generated an average of 150 basis points of cost savings per quarter.

Second, we are using feedstock and raw material alternatives at lower prices. Third, we are reducing our dependency on commodity and energy costs through our sustainability efforts. We just launched compacted powder detergents in the US, for example. These use less packaging material and require less energy to transport.

Fourth, where necessary, we will look to price. We will couple pricing with innovation wherever possible to positively impact consumer value.

In the US, we increased prices on Gillette shaving cartridges and disposable razors in February. In March, we increased prices on Duracell batteries. We've announced several additional price increases. In early June, price increases will go into effect on laundry detergents, hand and auto dishwashing products, Iams pet nutrition, Head & Shoulders and Metamucil.

Effective in late June are price increases on Bounty and Charmin. And effective in early July are increases on Pampers diapers and wipes.

Outside the US, we've raised prices on select products in Western Europe, Eastern Europe, Latin America and parts of Asia. Most of these pricing actions will go into effect in June or July, so we will see the vast majority of the benefit in fiscal year 2012.

A third headwind has been negative market events in Egypt and the Middle East and Japan. These are large markets for Procter & Gamble. We are overdeveloped in these markets compared to nearly all of our multinational competitors. While our businesses are fully operational, these disruptions reduced organic sales by about half a point on the quarter versus our going-in expectations.

The last challenge we are managing is supply, where we face shortfalls in the Blades and Razors, Pet Care, personal cleansing, Skin Care, Hair Color and Oral Care categories. We underestimated the strength of new initiatives such as Fusion ProGlide, Crest 3D White and Old Spice Body Wash, and have proactively made interventions to improve reliability and ensure quality in several categories, which temporarily reduced supply. We are back in full supply across most of these businesses, but are still working to catch up in several.

In summary, we are executing our strategy, and it's working. Top-line growth fundamentals are strong despite the challenges presented by slow developed market growth and crises in the Middle East and Japan. We are growing core earnings per share, but the rate of operating earnings growth is being held back by commodity cost increases. We are offsetting these cost impacts with positive tax developments in the near term and with pricing going forward.

Hopefully, this provides helpful overall context as we discuss our results, which I will move to now. Our third quarter was another period of solid volume and market share growth. Volume increased 5%. The growth was broad-based, with all six business segments, 16 of our top 17 countries and 20 of our 24 billion-dollar brands increasing volume versus the prior year.

We've built market share broadly, holding our growing share in businesses representing approximately two thirds of global sales. Share was in line or higher in all geographic regions and 14 of our top 17 countries, five of six reporting segments and for 18 of our 24 billion-dollar brands.

The strong volume and share progress continues to be driven by innovation and expansion programs. We are serving more consumers by expanding our portfolios to higher and lower price points, with new product launches, such as the mid-priced Olay Age Protect line and the restage of Pantene Shampoo sachets to the 1 rupee price point in India; Downy Single-Rinse in Thailand; Fusion ProGlide in Germany, France and Japan; Tampax Pearl in France; Naturella Pads in Holland; Era Ultra-Powder Laundry Detergent in the United States; and the launch of the Wella Pro Series Hair Care line in Western Europe.

We are expanding our portfolio to more parts of the world and entering new country category combinations with initiatives such as the launch of Downy Fabric Enhancers in Indonesia; the introduction of Olay skin care in Venezuela, Finland and Slovakia; and the expansion of Olay Men Solutions to Australia and New Zealand.

Many of these new price tier and country expansions also give P&G new presence in retail channels. For example, the Olay expansions give us our first skin care presence in the perfumery channel in Venezuela and Slovakia.

In addition to these portfolio expansions, we are serving consumers more completely, with improvements to existing products, such as powdered detergent compaction in North America; Nice 'n Easy foam haircolor in North America; Pampers diapers and wipes upgrades in the CEEMEA region; and the launch of Pantene Nature Fusion in new markets in Latin America and Asia.

Our innovation and expansion program is supported by a strong, multiyear pipeline. Two examples. Early next fiscal year, we will launch Oral-B Pro Expert toothpaste in the UK, entering a very large and important market and taking a significant step forward in the globalization of our Oral Care portfolio.

We will also launch revolutionary Tide PODS in North America, a highly-concentrated, new unit dose, three-in-one laundry detergent that offers consumers great Tide cleaning, brightening and stain fighting in an ultra-convenient form.

Getting back to the March quarter, organic sales grew more than 4%, about a point ahead of global market growth rates. This result included a half point headwind from the market disruptions in Egypt, the Middle East and Japan, and roughly another half point headwind from supply shortfalls.

All six reporting segments delivered organic sales for the quarter that were in line or higher than prior-year levels.

Global market growth remained at about 3% on a constant dollar basis. We continue to see healthy growth rates in developing markets, in the range of 6% to 8%. Developed markets grew about 1% for the quarter, which was a modest improvement versus the December quarter. However, growth remains very choppy from month to month.

For example, the US market grew nearly 2% in the month of January, but was essentially flat in March.

Pricing and mix combined to reduce sales by less than a full point for the quarter. Pricing added 1% to organic sales growth; mix reduced sales by approximately 2 points. The mix impact was due to a combination of geographic and product mix.

All-in sales grew 5%, including the 1 percentage point benefit from foreign exchange. Earnings per share were $0.96, an increase of 16% versus prior-year GAAP earnings per share of $0.83, and up 8% compared to prior-year core earnings per share of $0.89. Recall that our all-in results last year included $0.06 of non-core charges, primarily related to the passage of the Health Care Reform Act in the United States.

Our core earnings per share growth was driven by a combination of organic sales growth, cost savings, a decline in the effective tax rate and a reduction in shares outstanding. These benefits were partially offset by negative impacts from higher input costs, higher marketing and portfolio expansion investments and the impact of the market disruptions I mentioned earlier.

Gross margin decreased 140 basis points due to higher commodity costs. Higher year-on-year commodity costs reduced gross margin by more than 200 basis points. This equates to over $400 million of higher costs year-on-year, or about $0.10 per share. Compared to our going-in guidance for the quarter, commodity costs were a hit of about $100 million before tax, or about $0.03 per share.

We highlighted the worsening commodity cost impact at the CAGNY conference in late February. We indicated we were comfortable with our earnings per share guidance range, but that we were not going to abandon our strategy and chase commodity costs simply to deliver a top-of-range or consensus number.

Geographic and product mix reduced gross margin by approximately 150 basis points. The higher input costs and mix impacts were partially offset by pricing and strong savings programs, which contributed roughly 230 basis points positive to gross margin.

Operating margin declined 210 basis points, due mainly to lower gross margin. SG&A spending as a percentage of sales increased 70 basis points versus prior-year levels due to higher investments to support our innovation and expansion plans and foreign exchange impacts. The increase in investments more than offset roughly 50 basis points of overhead cost savings benefit.

Our effective tax rate was 21.1%. This rate is below historic levels due to a combination of favorable audit resolutions and the benefit of the mix impact from faster growth of our business in developing markets, where tax rates are generally lower.

The validation of our structure on audit and the continued mix shift of our business towards developing markets are sustained changes that affect our ongoing tax rate. As a result of these two factors, we now expect our long-term underlying tax rate will be in the neighborhood of 26%, which is down from our historic rate of 27% to 28%.

We generated over $3.2 billion in free cash flow in the quarter, with free cash flow productivity of 113%. We continue to return value to shareholders at an aggressive pace. Fiscal year to date, we've paid $4.2 billion in dividends to shareholders and repurchased over $4.5 billion in stock. Earlier this month, we increase the quarterly dividend by 9%, making this the 121st consecutive year in which we've paid a dividend and the 55th consecutive year in which the dividend has been increased.

In summary, despite several headwinds, the growth fundamentals of our business are strong. We are delivering broad-based volume, sales and market share growth across businesses and geographies. Core earnings per share increased 8% and we increased the dividend by 9%. We are continuing to advance our purpose-inspired growth strategy behind our innovation and our portfolio expansion programs.

Now I will turn the call over to Teri to review highlights of the business segments.

TERI LIST, SVP, TREASURER, THE PROCTER & GAMBLE COMPANY: Thanks, Jon. Beginning with the Beauty segment, organic sales increased 4% versus year ago behind 6% organic volume growth. One point of positive pricing from increases in Latin America and Prestige were offset by three points of geographic and product mix. Value share for the segment was consistent with prior year.

Retail Hair Care volume grew high single digits, with developed markets up mid-single digits and developing markets up double digits. Asia led the growth, with both Head & Shoulders and Rejoice shipments increasing in the mid-teens and Pantene shipments increasing over 20%.

In Latin America, Brazil was particularly strong, with Pantene volume up over 40% behind the successful Gisele Bundchen celebrity endorsement, and Head & Shoulders, which was introduced in November, delivering ahead of target.

In developed markets, Western Europe shipments were up double digits and value share grew nearly half a point. The growth was widespread across multiple countries and brands. Pantene volume increased double digits in the UK, Germany and Spain. And Head & Shoulders volume increased mid to high teens in the UK, Italy, Spain and France.

The new Wella Pro Series that was introduced in several countries across Europe is shipping ahead of expectation.

North America Hair Care volume was flat, with strong growth in Head & Shoulders offset by soft Pantene shipments. Upgrades to the Pantene product lineup and communication have recently been implemented.

Female Skin Care shipments were flat on a global basis. Developing markets increased high single digits, as the geographic and portfolio expansions of Olay continue to deliver strong growth.

Latin America grew nearly 30% behind the expansion into Brazil and commercial innovation in Mexico. In Asia, both the Philippines and India more than doubled shipments versus year ago as we expand the Olay portfolio horizontally in the markets.

Developed markets Skin Care shipments declined high single digits. North America volume declined double digits due to a temporary stop shipment of the Olay UV line in advance of a reformulation and restage, which we expect to launch in the next few months.

Partially offsetting this, Western Europe grew low single digits, with a combination of strong growth in the UK and Germany and declines in Italy and Spain.

Prestige organic volume grew mid-teens. Prestige Fragrances was up mid-teens, with strong growth across all regions. Initiatives such as Gucci Guilty, BOSS Bottled Night and Lacoste were strong contributors to the growth.

Prestige Skin Care volume grew high single digits behind continued SK-II strength and overall market growth. Salon Professional shipments were down high single digits due to market softness in Western Europe and continued streamlining of the portfolio.

In Grooming, organic sales increased 7% on organic growth volume growth of 2%. The benefits from list price increases and lower year-on-year promotional spending contributed an additional 5%. Global value share was up slightly in a growing market.

Male Blades & Razors shipments increased low single digits. Asia and Latin America led to growth, both up mid-teens. In Asia, India Blades and Razors volume increased over 25%. India Mach3 volume grew nearly 40% behind the Mach3 Sensitive Razor, and Gillette Guard continued to perform well.

In Latin America, Mexico Mach3 volume grew nearly 50% behind our sensitive skin initiative, and Brazil Mach3 volume grew more than 50% behind the multi-category Gillette Megabrand commercial innovation.

In developed markets, Western Europe and North America volume was down mid-single digits. Western Europe volume decreased as volume gains from the launch of Fusion ProGlide were offset by blade market contraction and a volume shift between quarters, as expected, due to a January price increase.

North America volume was down, as strong volume growth in Fusion was offset by softness in Mach3 and Gillette legacy Blades and Razors, per our business model of trading up consumers to premium systems.

Full supply capacity for Fusion was online March 1 and full commercialization begins in April.

Male Personal Care shipments increased high single digits. North America volume grew double digits behind strong deodorants growth and full supply capacity for Old Spice Body Wash.

Latin America volume grew over 20%, with Brazil up more than 40% behind the Gillette Megabrand and Guy Aisle executions and expansion in deodorants.

Appliances volume was down high single digits, largely due to softness in Europe.

Healthcare organic sales increased 5% behind 4% volume growth. Price increases in developing markets added 1% to sales, and mix was neutral. Global value share was up nearly half a point.

Global Oral Care unit volume increased mid-single digits, and global value share increased more than a point to 23%. North America shipments were up mid-single digits and share increased over 2 points. The main driver of the growth was the 3D White initiative, including the 2-Hour Express Whitestrips, which launched in December.

Western Europe volume was also up mid-single digits, and share increased nearly 2.5 points. Toothbrush share grew more than 3 points across the region, driven by the powered brush business. In Belgium and the Netherlands, Oral-B toothpaste continues to perform ahead of target, with share above 12% in both markets, up more than 4 points versus year ago.

Developing markets increased mid-single digits. Latin America shipments were up mid-teens and value share was up nearly a point. Brazil Oral-B paste and brush volume increased more than 30%, and value share was also up nearly a point.

Mexico Crest volume increased more than 10%, and value share was up nearly 4 points. In Asia, both the Philippines and India volume increased nearly 25% behind successful toothbrush initiatives.

Feminine Care volume grew low single digits. Naturella brand shipments increased nearly 20%, up high teens or more in all regions. All recent expansions, including Greater China, Brazil and most recently Holland, continue to perform well. The Always and Whisper volume grew low single digits. India Whisper volume increased over 40% behind the Whisper Choice restage. And Germany volume was up mid-teens behind the CEVA endorsement and a product restage.

Personal Health Care shipments increased high single digits, with developed markets up double digits and developing markets up low single digits. North America volume grew double digits, and value share was up nearly 1 point, mainly behind Vicks growth from a strong cough and cold season and product initiatives.

Snacks and Pet Care organic sales were flat versus year ago. Organic volume growth was offset by geographic and product mix; global value share was down slightly. Snacks volume increased double digits, with all regions growing, and share was up. Developed market shipments grew high single digits, with both Western Europe and North America gaining strong retailer support. Developing market shipments were up nearly 25%. In the CEEMEA region, Turkey and Russia increased shipments more than 80% versus year ago behind increased distribution within the markets.

Pet Care shipments, excluding the Natura acquisition, were down mid-single digits. Full supply capacity was restored within the quarter and merchandising support began in March. We expect it will take several months for customer and consumer support to return to normal levels.

Fabric and Home Care organic sales were up 3% behind 5% organic volume growth. Pricing was neutral and mix was negative 2% impact. Global value share increased half a point. Fabric Care volume increased mid-single digits and global share was up nearly half a point. Western Europe volume was up mid-single digits and share grew nearly 1 point.

In France, Ariel Liqui-Tabs shipments grew midteens, and in Italy, Dash Liqui-Tabs shipments grew nearly 25% behind commercial innovation and customer support. In the UK, Ariel volume increased over 30% due to the laundry additives launch, and Lenor increased over 25% with the introduction of a new large size and increased customer support.

North America volume was up slightly, and share increased nearly 1 point. Strong growth in Downy was offset by a declining laundry market.

In developing markets, the BRIC countries had strong performance, growing volume more than 15% on average. In Brazil, Ariel volume more than doubled behind strong support of liquids. In Russia, Tide volume increased more than 15%, and Downy volume increased more than 35% due to Fabric Enhancer compaction and increased media support across Fabric Care.

In India, Tide volume grew more than 60% with the continued success Tide Naturals. And in China, Ariel shipments increased nearly 25%, driven by the strong growth of both liquids and powders.

Home care organic shipments grew high single digits, with volume up across all regions, and global value share was up nearly 1 point. North America volume increased mid-single digits, and value share was up nearly a point. Febreze shipments grew mid-single digits behind the Febreze Set & Refresh and Noticeables initiatives. And Gain Hand Dish volume shipped more than double expected levels.

Japan volume increased double digits as the expansion of the Febreze portfolio into aerosols continues to drive growth. Developing market organic shipments grew high teens. The Central and Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa volumes increased more than 30%, with a large portion of the growth coming from Dish Care expansion into markets including Turkey and Morocco, and the balance from the Ambi Pur acquisition.

Asia volume was up over 40%. The growth was a combination of volume from the Ambi Pur acquisition and organic increases.

Batteries volume was flat on a global basis and value share grew nearly 1.5 points. Developing market shipments increased high single digits. India volume more than doubled through increased distribution and marketing support. And Russia volume increased nearly 20% behind recently introduced product upgrades and strong focus on in-store sales fundamentals. Developed markets declined low-single digits, driven North America lapping a high base period, driven by the introduction of value pricing in March of last year.

Baby and Family Care organic sales grew 5%. Organic volume increased 7%. Pricing increases in Latin America added 1% and product mix was a negative 2 impact. Global value share was up over half a point, on top of global market growth of approximately 3 points.

Baby Care shipments were up high single digits and global value share increased nearly a point. Developed market volume was up low single digits. North America shipment trends reflect the lapping of the pipeline volume from the Dry Max launch in fiscal year 2010. This was more than offset by mid-single-digit growth in Western Europe and more than 30% growth in Japan.

Western Europe growth was broad-based across Germany, the UK and France behind the Dry Max initiatives and the new Golden Sleep commercial innovation. Japan growth was a combination of increased customer support, a new consumer loyalty program and some pantry-loading driven by the natural disaster. Developing market volume increased high teens. Latin America shipments were up more than 20%, and value share grew over 2.5 points.

Venezuela volume increased more than 40%, benefiting from local market production. And Brazil volume increased over 25% through distribution gains and commercial innovation. Greater China shipments were up over 25%, and India shipments were up nearly 50% behind strong market growth and the Golden Sleep commercial innovation.

Family Care volume grew mid-single digits, and value in share increased half a point. US Charmin shipments were up mid-single digits and share grew nearly 1 point in a growing market. The base Charmin business volume was up due to product upgrades and commercial innovation, and Charmin Basic shipments were up more than 20%, mainly from distribution and shelf space gains.

That concludes the business segment review, and now I will hand the call back over to Jon to discuss guidance for the June quarter and for the fiscal year.

JON MOELLER: Thanks, Teri. The perspective I provided at the beginning of the call is relevant to both our results and our outlook for the balance of the year. Starting with guidance for the June quarter, we're estimating organic sales growth in the range of 4% to 6%. We continue to expect to grow volume and sales ahead of underlying market growth rates, building market share. Market growth itself remains a key source of volatility in our top and bottom-line results. Our fourth-quarter outlook is based on 2% to 3% constant currency global market value growth.

We expect all-in sales growth of 8% to 10%. This includes a benefit from foreign exchange of approximately 4 points. Earnings per share are forecast in the range of $0.80 to $0.85, up 13% to 20% versus prior-year earnings per share of $0.71. The very strong bottom-line growth is expected to be driven by a combination of solid top-line growth and modest operating profit margin expansion. The bottom-line comparison also benefits from high advertising investment levels in the base period.

We are keeping a wide earnings-per-share guidance range to reflect ongoing volatility in market growth rates from crises affecting large markets and in commodity and energy costs.

Moving to the fiscal year, we are tightening our organic sales growth guidance to a range of 4% to 5%. This compares to underlying global market growth for the year of about 3% and reflects our expectation to grow 1 to 2 points ahead of market levels and grow market share. We expect all-in sales growth of 4% to 5%. This includes a roughly neutral impact from foreign exchange and the net effect of acquisitions and divestitures.

We are also tightening the core earnings-per-share guidance range to $3.91 to $3.96, which equates to growth of 7% to 8% versus prior-year quarter earnings per share of $3.67. This compares to our previous outlook for 7% to 9% growth and reflects the impacts of higher commodity and energy costs, market disruptions, and our intention to maintain strong investment levels behind our innovation and expansion growth opportunities.

For perspective, the disaster in Japan will affect fiscal-year earnings by about $0.02 per share, with a large majority hitting the fourth quarter. Our revised energy and commodity cost outlook results in roughly a negative $1.8 billion before-tax impact on fiscal year 2011. This is about $500 million worse than we predicted at this time last quarter, which equates to roughly $0.13 per share. About $0.03 of this hit in the March quarter and the balance will affect the June quarter.

As I mentioned earlier, we've announced a large number of price increases in markets around the world to help offset these cost increases. The majority of these recently-announced increases will go into effect in June or July and will primarily affect fiscal year 2012.

All-in GAAP earnings per share is now expected in the range of $3.89 to $3.94. This range includes the impacts of the non-core tax benefits and legal charges from earlier in the fiscal year.

As I mentioned earlier, we're now projecting a long-term underlying effective tax rate of around 26%. We expect to end this fiscal year with a core tax rate of around 24%. This is lower than the long-term rate due to the large number of favorable audit results we received during the year.

Free cash flow productivity should be around 90% for the fiscal year and we continue to expect share repurchases to be within our $6 billion to $8 billion target range.

We've already received some questions on when we might provide guidance for fiscal 2012. Our plan is to provide our 2012 outlook on our next earnings call, which is scheduled for Friday, August 5.

We are currently in the midst of our detailed financial planning process for next year. While we are not in a position to provide an outlook today, our eventual targets for sales and earnings per share growth will be driven by a combination of base business growth and investment choices to support our innovation and portfolio expansion plans. They will also reflect our emphasis on cost savings and productivity.

We want to assure investors that our overriding objective remains to simultaneously grow market share and operating profit to deliver leadership levels of value creation for the owners of this Company.

We are confident that our growth and operating strategies are the right ones to deliver top and bottom line results that we and our shareholders expect. Now Bob, Teri and I would be happy to take your questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions) Nik Modi, UBS.

NIK MODI, ANALYST, UBS: Good morning, everyone. It strikes me as one of the key issues that P&G has been facing over the last few years has been some of the higher-margin businesses have been struggling, whether it be the US, Beauty, Grooming and China, which is obviously one of your highest-margin emerging markets.

Can you just provide any perspective on those three businesses and kind of where we are right now and where you expect it to be, and the challenges you face and if you are correcting those challenges? Thanks.

BOB MCDONALD, CHAIRMAN, PRESIDENT, CEO, THE PROCTER & GAMBLE COMPANY: Relative to the higher-margin businesses, as you describe them, in North America in particular, the issue in North America is the lack of market growth rate. Jon talked about the fact that the market growth rates we've seen in North America have been below our going-in expectation. And that actually, in the last -- in the quarter that we are reporting, the market growth rate has actually decelerated throughout the quarter.

We are growing market share in North America, and many of those market share increases are on the businesses that you describe as higher-margin. So we are happy with the fact that we are growing market share, even though we wish that there were more market growth.

For perspective, we've grown -- held or grown market share for 13 consecutive months in North America. Having said that, within that, one business that we are working hard to improve is our Pantene business. We've talked on previous calls about Pantene North America and that our restage earlier in the fiscal year did not go as well as we wanted. We've had a few design and assortment issues that we are working to correct. And in mid-February, we launched seven new two-in-one SKUs and five new large-sized SKUs with a new marketing campaign, which have all gotten good, strong consumer support and customer support.

The brand is going to continue to strengthen plans in the US over the coming months, and we have a breakthrough commercial innovation that will hit the market in the September quarter, reinforcing Pantene's health equity.

So in terms of the US, I'm expecting North American Pantene, which has been the hole in the bottom of the bucket, so to speak, to improve.

Relative to China, we continue to have accelerating top-line growth rates in China. In fact, through the last quarter, we actually have grown our Asia business substantially. We've grown our Asia market share 0.6 points, and our top-line growth in Asia has been double digits. So we are happy with what is happening in Asia.

What we need to do there is we need to get our Olay business and our Olay market share growing more strongly. And we are working very hard on that as we speak.

So I expect you are going to see over the next few months improvement in the North America Pantene business, improvement in the China Olay business, and that will lead to better results for the Company.

OPERATOR: Bill Schmitz, Deutsche Bank.

BILL SCHMITZ, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: So you broke out the volume kindly, developed versus developing markets. Can you just take a stab at what the total sales growth was by both regions?

And then the real genesis of that question is why is the promotional environment still so intense, when you have all this pricing coming through, but it seems like most of it is being mitigated by extremely high promotional levels, which I think are chunky categories?

BOB MCDONALD: Relative to the volume in sales by region, Bill, let's start with North America. We grew our organic volume in North America 1%. We grew organic sales -- organic sales were basically flat. In Western Europe, we grew organic volume 4%. Organic sales were up 4%. In Japan, we grew organic volume 8%. Organic sales were up 7%.

So in the developed markets, as we consider them, we grew organic volume 3%, organic sales were up 1%.

In the developing markets, in Central Europe, Middle East and Africa, we grew organic volume 3%; organic sales were up 3%. Latin America, organic volume up 9%; organic sales up 19%. Asia, excluding Japan, organic volume up 15%, organic sales up 12%. As I alluded to in the answer to Nik's question, China is a big part of that. So in the developing markets, organic volume was up 9%, organic sales were up 10%. Total Company -- total quarter organic volume up 5%, organic sales up 4%. Price/mix, minus 1 point.

Relative to promotion spending, I am not seeing the acceleration in promotion spending that you are describing. In fact, what I am seeing is a deceleration. And in terms of the pricing that we are seeing, we are seeing that some of the deceleration in promotion is resulting in higher pricing -- higher effective pricing in market. So I am not seeing the effect you describe.

JON MOELLER: Just to build on that, Bill, our volume sold on promotion in the last quarter was 3% lower than year ago.

OPERATOR: Wendy Nicholson, Citi Investment Research.

WENDY NICHOLSON, ANALYST, CITI INVESTMENT RESEARCH: My first one is just a little follow-up to Nik's question. Because, Bob, you talked about Pantene. And one of the things you said that caught my ear was the large size was going to be reformulated. And I don't think you called out Pantene as one of the brands that was going to have a price increase. So I'm wondering if just you are trying to narrow the price gap and make that less of a sort of premium, superpremium brand, in an effort to gain share.

But my bigger question is on the SG&A spending, because that was up, it seems like a lot more -- certainly a lot more than I expected. And I am trying to figure out how much of that was plain old advertising. Was there something else in there that was sort of unusual this quarter? And I guess specifically, did you know that the tax rate was going to be a lot lower than we had all modeled and so you threw stuff in there to sort of depress the operating income growth so your EPS came in line with the target? Thanks.

BOB MCDONALD: On Pantene, Wendy, there is no intention to reduce pricing on Pantene or anything like that. Really, the reaction was that when we did the relaunch last year, we went to a new architecture for Pantene that was around hair type. And when we did that, we took out -- in North America we took out SKUs that were two-in-one SKUs or that were large-size SKUs. So we are, in essence, replacing those. And we are doing that with a new marketing campaign, as we described, because the previous marketing campaign wasn't effective enough.

So we think that these are going to strengthen our plans in the coming months and will lead to growth in the future. Jon?

JON MOELLER: The SG&A question, it is largely advertising, which is in support of our innovation and portfolio expansion plans. There is a small amount of that X impact in there as well, but simplistically it is advertising.

I talked at CAGNY about the fact that our operating margin -- our operating earnings progress was going to be skewed towards the fourth quarter. And we talked very explicitly, I think, in the Q&A session at CAGNY about a lower tax rate. So yes, we were aware of the lower tax rate. We planned on that basis. And we, as we said we would, adhered to our strategy, despite the increasing commodity costs, and spent to support our innovation programs.

BOB MCDONALD: And that is the reason we are holding or growing share in two thirds of our business globally.

OPERATOR: Lauren Lieberman, Barclays Capital.

LAUREN LIEBERMAN, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: First is a follow-up on the advertising question. Because I think one thing that has been interesting so far in the few earnings reports we have from both your direct kind of competitors and others within staples is that companies are tapping into their advertising budgets as a source of offsetting cost inflation. So can you (inaudible) say at this point that as we look -- I know you're not giving guidance for fiscal '12 -- but is it safe to assume your advertising budget will be sacrosanct as we look ahead over the next 12 months?

BOB MCDONALD: Lauren, if you look historically, our advertising spend, our media spend, has been generally around 10% of our sales. And I don't expect that to change. I mean, we are going to continue to invest in our brands.

Now, as we do that, you have to understand while the gross percentage will stay to be about 10%, which is what it has been, 9% to 10%, the internals change quite dramatically as we move more and more to our advertising spend to digital and other forms of media which may be more effective and more efficient.

So we are actually getting a lot more for our advertising spend than we ever have before. And we have a marketing mix modeling technique that tells us the ROI of each medium. And as a result, we can move money to the more effective medium. So we are getting a lot more for the money that we are spending, but the amount we are spending as a percent of sales is about the same. Obviously, given the size of our Company, we have a scale advantage versus our competitors who may be smaller and spend less money.

JON MOELLER: I think the notion of sacrosanct is probably right on, Lauren. I think you see strong evidence of that in this quarter. We are going to execute our strategy. It is working. And I am not going to worry about a penny below consensus on earnings per share, cut back advertising and affect the long-term health of this business. That is not what we are about.

OPERATOR: John Faucher, JPMorgan.

JOHN FAUCHER, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: As I look at this, Jon, you and Bob have talked about profitable share growth as the metrics. And I think as we look at it, the share growth has been there and the profit hasn't. So -- as much as we would have liked, at least.

So as you look out over the last sort of 12, 15 months in this change in strategy, can you talk about maybe what iterations you need to make, what changes you need to make in terms of how it is implemented? And then also talk about that in the context of, well, we don't need to make changes; it is simply the category. The category growth hasn't been there, which has basically kept us for having this virtual cycle of being able to fund the reinvestment more from upside as opposed to through the lower tax rate, like you've mentioned in the last couple of comments. Thanks.

JON MOELLER: I think, John, there is one variable which has kept us in the last couple quarters from having very strong top-line and very strong bottom-line progress, and that is the commodity cost increases, which have just been significant. Obviously, as we articulated our plan, we knew there would be volatility in commodity costs. We didn't expect this kind of runup.

I mentioned it in my remarks that the amount of increase we've seen this year is triple what we expected going into the year. And it simply takes some time to get the pricing in place to offset that and bring through the cost savings that we are very focused on doing. You do see, at least from a guidance standpoint, very strong top- and bottom-line growth in the fourth quarter. And we tried to acknowledge at the end of our remarks that we are very committed to delivering both of those.

OPERATOR: Chris Ferrara, Bank of America.

CHRIS FERRARA, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: I know you just talked about balance, Jon, in particular, I guess, around when you started talking about 2012 a little bit, in that you expect to grow both top and bottom line. And I guess I just wanted to understand, without delving too far into fiscal '12 -- it does seem like there has got to be somewhat of a prioritization, right? Because with commodity costs, to your point, doing what they are doing and the fact that the pricing is going to lag that pretty significantly, I guess, can you talk about conceptually how you think about the commitment to the reinvestment you guys have been making and the strategy that has been working, and the commitment you made to investors to deliver that high-singles to low-doubles number? Because it just seems like both would be pretty difficult next year, especially with a 3-point drag from the tax rate normalized. Thanks.

JON MOELLER: I would say a couple things. One, the tax rate will continue to be lower, as I talked about. So it won't be a full annualization the benefit from this year.

The question behind the question in terms of are we willing to make priority calls to be able to deliver both the top and bottom line, the definitive answer is yes. We have many more things that we'd love to spend on that we are not simply to try to be -- to try to deliver both top- and bottom-line growth, and I expect that will continue to be our approach going forward.

And you also have to be careful about looking -- as I know you know -- at just one variable, which is commodity costs. We also have, on the other side of the equation, relatively favorable foreign exchange development as well, which should enable us to deliver both top- and bottom-line growth and support a number of investments, though not all we'd like.

BOB MCDONALD: Chris, I would say that one of the reasons that Procter & Gamble is one of the most admired companies in the world for the development of leaders, and that many Procter & Gamble leaders lead Fortune 500 companies around the world, is because of their ability to lead during times of uncertainty and deliver balanced results, both on the top and the bottom line.

And any leader at Procter & Gamble knows that they have to deliver top-line growth and bottom-line growth. And the way to square that circle is to make sure that we are constantly and consistently working to make the Company more productive. And over my 30-year career, every year, we have increased the productivity of the Company 4% to 6%.

So we got to have the cost-savings programs in place. We've got to go after headcount. We've got to reorganize the Company. We've got to do the things necessary to make sure we can deliver that bottom- and top-line growth.

Remember, our overarching objective is to be in the top third of our peer group in terms of total shareholder return. It is really that simple. So a simple focus on a single metric is obviously not sufficient for the leaders of our Company.

OPERATOR: Joe Altobello, Oppenheimer.

JOE ALTOBELLO, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER: First, one question on the new Tide PODS. How patent-protected is this? What has been the response from retailers, competitors? And what is sort of the margin pickup versus baseline Tide? And then maybe another question on the relaunch of Fusion ProGlide, how is that going?

BOB MCDONALD: Relative to the patent protection on Tide PODS, Joe, you can imagine it is quite strong. If you look at our dishwashing business and you see what we have been able to do with the single unit dose in dishwashing, you look at what we've been able to do introducing automatic dishwashing on top of the strong hand dishwashing businesses we already have, it is one of the reasons our Home Care business has been one of our fastest-growing businesses around the world. And Teri reviewed those results.

All of that patent protection exists in the laundry form as well, not just on the chemistry and the film and how that is done, but also on the manufacturing process. Because many of our manufacturing processes are also patented and protected since there is intellectual property there. So I don't imagine that this is going to be able to be copied in any way that it will become a threat.

We are expecting this form to be a big success. We think it will be up to 30% or more of the volume in the United States. And importantly, even though we didn't mention it in our remarks, this is really a good thing for the environment and it is a good thing for retailers. The liquid form within the pouch, within the packet, is twice as concentrated as liquid laundry detergent. So you are going to do a lot better for the environment, a lot better for retailers, a lot better for homemakers in terms of using this product.

JON MOELLER: Your question on Fusion ProGlide and the relaunch there, we really just began that. So we expect very good things, but it is too early to quote a result.

BOB MCDONALD: I was at Boston yesterday, and I reviewed the relaunch plan, and I am very excited about it. We've gotten great customer support. The inventory is back in the stores. We've restarted advertising back at the launch weight. And we have some new campaign executions which you will be seeing very soon that I think you will really like. So please continue watching.

OPERATOR: Connie Maneaty, BMO Capital Markets.

CONNIE MANEATY, ANALYST, BMO CAPITAL MARKETS: Could you give us your perspective on these declining category growth rates, when the last time was that you saw them, how long you expect it to continue? And with a flat to down birth rate in the US, what is the likelihood that the categories can pick up without that?

BOB MCDONALD: Connie, I think that what we are seeing is, at least in part, the effect of the increasing gas prices. I think what -- the volatility that Jon talked about month to month from January to March is in part, at least, affected by gas prices. I also have to say I think it is affected by consumer confidence.

And as you see, for example, the S&P rating of the United States being lowered, as you hear politicians fighting with each other rather than getting after what the problems are, that affects consumer confidence. And as Larry Summers once told me, consumer confidence is the cheapest stimulus that can be bought. So we are all hopeful that we will get back to a situation where the markets will be growing at past rates, and we are ready for that.

Relative to birth rates and other things, I continue to believe the US is a growthful market, and it is up to us to make it that way. We have to do that through our innovation. I think you are going to see that Tide PODS, as an example we just talked about, will return market growth to the laundry category. I think you will see that Fusion ProGlide will return market growth to the Blades and Razors category.

And so we take responsibility for delivering market growth. Relative to birth rate, the birthrate of the United States is shifting. The minority will become the majority by 2040, 2050. And we are still counting on a growing Baby Care business.

OPERATOR: Bill Chappell, SunTrust.

BILL CHAPPELL, ANALYST, SUNTRUST: Just one quick follow-up and then one question. On the tax rate, Jon, did you say you don't expect the tax rate to get back to 26% next year?

And then the actual question was just trying to understand pricing, as we look into next year. And with so much of the pricing being weighted towards kind of the June/July timeframe in terms of passing it through, do you expect accelerated purchases from some of your retailers in front of that, or should that pretty much even out over the next three, four months anyway?

JON MOELLER: Relative to the tax question, you are right. The rate will increase from 24% this year to 26%, roughly, on a going basis. I don't know exactly what it will be next year. We haven't gotten that far in our planning process.

My previous answer referred to it not going back to the historic rate. So I'm sorry if I caused any confusion there. Bob, do you want to talk about pricing?

BOB MCDONALD: We are pricing broadly across all regions and across all brands. Basically, the pricing that we are taking is not as much as it was in the 2008 period. But nevertheless, it is still across many brands and across many categories.

Our intention, obviously, is to take price increases to offset increasing commodity costs, where we can't cost saved. We've already implemented new price increases across US Batteries and Blades and Razors in J/F/M, as Jon and Teri talked in their remarks.

And earlier this month, we announced to our customers that we are taking price increases across many businesses in North America -- powdered detergents, Bounty, Charmin, Pampers, just to name a few. Taken together, we have implemented or announced price increases across brands representing about 50% of our US sales this calendar year. And we are also taking foreign exchange price increases, which is what we normally do to protect the fundamental financial structure of our business, and -- such as in places like Venezuela. And we've increased prices where necessary in emerging markets. We've talked, for example, about Tide Naturals, and Tide Naturals in India, where we increased the price 8% in the quarter that we are reporting on.

JON MOELLER: I wouldn't expect the pricing moves to have a dramatic impact on the year-to-year volume trends.

OPERATOR: Jon Andersen, William Blair.

JON ANDERSEN, ANALYST, WILLIAM BLAIR & COMPANY: I just wanted to touch quickly on some of the supply constraints that you've been experiencing. It sounded like that was a drag of about 0.5 percentage point to the top line in the current quarter. Where are you still working to get supply back online, how quickly can you do that, and does that drag diminish going forward? Thank you.

JON MOELLER: The drag clearly diminishes going forward. As I mentioned, we are back in full supply on most of the items. There are a few we are still working on. And you can imagine from a competitive sensitivity standpoint why I might not want to get into the specifics there. But that should be a tailwind going forward.

OPERATOR: Jason Gere, RBC Capital Markets.

JASON GERE, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Just going back to the pricing front -- and I know your comment now is you don't really see the price increases that you are taking to have much of an impact of the volumes. But I was just wondering in terms of the conversations you're having with retailers, some of them, we are hearing, are a little hesitant about taking price increases with the consumer still pretty strapped.

So I was just wondering about the merchandising side, if you think all that pricing is going to stick, if you think there is going to be a little bit more incremental merchandising. I was just wondering if you could give a little perspective on that.

BOB MCDONALD: Jason, as we referred to earlier, the pricing gets executed in many different ways. Some of it is a deceleration of promotion spending. And I said that we've seen some of that from our competition already. Some of it gets executed in new items. For example, if you buy a Fusion ProGlide, there is a pricing impact of that versus regular Fusion.

Some of it gets executed in different sizing and pricing. We've reduced -- we've condensed our powder laundry detergents. We have Tide PODS going out.

So this isn't just like you walk up to the shelf and you see the same old package and suddenly the price is a little bit higher. As a result of that, we are able to get these price increases through, we are able to get them to the shelf. And I actually don't expect them to affect merchandising very dramatically at all. The key is we've got to continue to innovate.

OPERATOR: Doug Lane, Jefferies.

DOUG LANE, ANALYST, JEFFERIES: Getting back on the margin question, we've seen the core operating margins down a couple hundred basis points for two quarters now. So I guess should we look at this as potentially a reset of some sort on the margins off of recent peaks in the 20% to 21% range? Or are you fairly confident you can get back to holding operating margins in the next couple of years?

JON MOELLER: We would expect to hold or build operating margins over the next couple years.

BOB MCDONALD: It is basic leadership of our Company, Doug. There is a difference between our guidance on the top line and our guidance on the bottom line. And in order to square that circle, you've got to improve the productivity and the profit margin quarter to quarter. And if you are an effective leader of Procter & Gamble, you do that, and if you are not an effective leader at Procter & Gamble, you don't do that.

OPERATOR: Tim Conder, Wells Fargo.

TIM CONDER, ANALYST, WELLS FARGO: Just a couple here. Just maybe a little bit of clarity. Can you talk a little bit more about the Female Beauty part, the volumes here? Was that impacted by the decreased shipments ahead of the North America Olay reformulation and restage launch, and especially in light of your international expansion with that product?

And then secondly, pricing in Asia, you gave some color there. To what degree you can or want to comment about China specifically, and how those pricing actions are holding.

BOB MCDONALD: Specifically on the Female Beauty and the Skin, Teri talked in her remarks -- I have to find it -- but that we had to withdraw a number of products that were in the North American market because of the UV protection technology that we were using. We withdrew those products, and that had a big impact on the volume for Olay for the quarter, as well as for North America for the quarter, as well as, obviously, for the Olay North America combination for the quarter.

We have worked very quickly to reformulate those products at a record pace, and we are in the process of getting them back into the market and -- to mitigate the impact of this. But that was a very big impact on the quarter.

JON MOELLER: But overall, I think it is important just to repeat that we grew organic volume in Beauty on a global basis 6% on the quarter. So that total business is really accelerating.

In terms of the question on China pricing, we obviously can't talk about pricing plans that we haven't announced, and we haven't at this point announced anything in China.

OPERATOR: Alice Longley, Buckingham Research.

ALICE LONGLEY, ANALYST, BUCKINGHAM RESEARCH: I have a follow-up question to the comment that you made a few minutes ago that you would expect operating margins to hold or increase for the next two years.

In this third quarter, did you expect the SG&A ratio to be up as much as it was, or did you have to increase your marketing more than you originally planned in order to generate that 4% organic sales growth? Because this was the first of the easy comparisons for intensified marketing before, and it raises questions about whether you can generate that 4% to 6% top-line growth rate without continuing to increase the marketing ratios.

JON MOELLER: The SG&A number isn't significantly different than what we would have assumed. And again, I tried to be very clear about this during our dialogue at CAGNY, saying that we didn't expect to see operating margin growth -- or operating earnings growth in the quarter, that that would be skewed to the back half.

And as I mentioned earlier, this entire dynamic is driven really by commodity costs, and we've talked about the multi-pronged approach both increasing productivity, increasing pricing where we need to to offset that commodity cost increase.

And I don't want to get into should have, could have, would have, but if you step back -- if we didn't have $1.8 billion in commodity cost increases this year, we would have a fantastic bottom line. And it is our job to deal with that and we are doing that, and doing that successfully should lead to operating earnings growth in the future.

OPERATOR: Ali Dibadj, Sanford Bernstein.

ALI DIBADJ, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: Just, I guess, two very quick follow-ups and then a kind of core question. One of the follow-ups was just around commodities. Jon, you said commodities, particularly for this quarter, were a little bit higher and we were unexpected. I guess I am still confused about why that keeps happening -- not just to you, but to everybody -- given that there is such a -- call it three-months lag on commodities, and so you kind of knew it three months ago. So that is one.

Number two is, from an advertising spend perspective, is this year going to be higher than your typical run rate, and so there is some room there as you go forward?

And then my core question is from the sounds of the call and from your last answer, it sounds like if it weren't for commodities, if it weren't for some of these really horrible things happening around the world in some places, things are great. The strategy is working.

But even if you back those out, the growing share and profitably growing share, that last part, doesn't necessarily seem to be coming through. And look, it may be temporary. And maybe in response to the first two questions, you can kind of clarify this part.

But I guess as you look forward, are there any elements of the strategy you have been implementing that you are changing, that you are modifying? Because one could say the ROI hasn't been there. Sure, it's been there from a volume perspective. But you are kind of -- particularly on a stacked basis, top-line growth is slowing a little bit. And I think most importantly for the audience on this call, investors are saying this is not enough for us.

So thanks for the two quick ones up front, but then the core question is, again, are you changing anything going forward, given of the some feedback you've gotten, both from your results and also from the marketplace? Thanks very much.

JON MOELLER: In terms of first the commodities question, not everything runs through three months of inventory. So for example, one of the biggest increases and one of the biggest surprises was the escalation in diesel costs quarter-to-quarter and as we went through the quarter. And that flows pretty much straight to the bottom line.

And some of the increases, as well, are in businesses where we historically carry less inventory; for instance, our Fabric and Home Care business. And those have come through to the bottom line of the quarter as well. But it's really things like diesel.

And if anybody on the line can help me with how to forecast commodity costs, just give me a call; I would be glad to talk.

Advertising this year will be in line, in terms of the percentage of sales figures that Bob quoted earlier. And then in terms of what we are changing to ensure that we deliver both top and bottom line, I will provide some commentary and I'm sure Bob will want to provide some perspective as well.

But we are trying to get even more productive, as Bob mentioned, in everything we do. And that is a very intentional discussion that we have at all levels of the Company. And I would argue, as I mentioned in my remarks, that we are turning up the dial on that, and that will give us the ability to do what we need to do here.

BOB MCDONALD: I think what we call our purpose-inspired growth strategy of more consumers, more parts of the world, more completely, is working. I think we have evidence of that in the market share growth and in the improving profitability of the business, as we've guided for the next quarter.

And I think, as Jon says, every year, we make changes to our strategies. Every year, we get together, we review what we've done in the past and then we make changes going forward. Certainly, the intentionality around cost savings and productivity is high and will be heightened because we've got to be able to deal with the volatility that we face in commodity costs and in lack of market growth.

But I think we are on track. I think we are on track with where we want to be, given to headwinds that we've seen. We may be delayed from the kind of profitability we want to deliver quarter to quarter -- we may be delayed by either the lack of market growth in developed markets, the commodity cost increases or some of the natural disasters that have occurred. But I think we are on track, and we are going to continue to pursue the track that we are following and be able to have greater agility in dealing with these one-time disasters that occur.

OPERATOR: Javier Escalante, Weeden & Company.

JAVIER ESCALANTE, ANALYST, WEEDEN & COMPANY: With organic growth volume growth of 5% lapping 7%, which is very respectable given the environment, I would like to dive a bit more in the offsetting being the negative mix. Would it be possible to revisit this negative mix and to the extent possible quantify a breakout of the mix between growth in emerging markets and consumer tradedown in developed markets, mainly the US and Europe?

I think that you mentioned in the call that you entered 70 new price tiers. Are these tiers more in the value tiers, I would suspect? If consumers are trading down, I guess you would rather have them trading down within your portfolio. But if you could please comment on mix -- basically, emerging markets versus developed markets, how much is tradedown in developed markets, how much is volume expansion in developing markets? That would be very helpful.

JON MOELLER: Sure. About half the mix impact is the faster growth of the business in developing markets. The other half is really product category form mix. It is really not driven by consumer tradedown.

The 70 price tiers that we are entering, category price tiers, are split between higher-price entries and lower-price entries, so it is not all lower-price entries. And the best data I can give you to show you that we're not seeing a lot of tradedown right now is the marketshare contrast, us growing market share and private label largely losing market share. That is not symptomatic of an environment in which a lot of tradedown is occurring. So it is really just driven by a different combination of products and categories growing at different rates.

OPERATOR: Linda Bolton Weiser, Caris & Company.

LINDA BOLTON WEISER, ANALYST, CARIS & COMPANY: One little simple question. Do you have any forecasts about what the other nonoperating income might be in the fourth fiscal quarter? Do you think it would be over $50 million?

BOB MCDONALD: I apologize -- I'm not operating at that level of detail. But why don't you give Jon a call following this and he can help you with that?

OPERATOR: Mark Astrachan, Stifel Nicolaus.

MARK ASTRACHAN, ANALYST, STIFEL NICOLAUS: Are there specific categories, like Oral Care, where you guys are a bit more constrained in your ability to take pricing? Or put differently, will you take pricing based on how much input cost you are seeing on a specific product? And if that's not the case, can you give a bit of color on what factors you take into account before taking pricing?

BOB MCDONALD: Well, I apologize for kind of repeating what I said before, because the answer is not going to be very different. Certainly, the input costs are in an impact in deciding whether or not to take pricing. Whether or not you have innovation, what the consumer value impression of your current offering is, what the sizing and pricing differences might be. There are a whole number of things that we take -- what the competitive situation is -- whole number of things that we take into account. But they really don't differ category by category or even country by country. I would say that it is a relatively common algorithm that gets used everywhere and in every category.

JON MOELLER: If you look at Oral Care as one category you mentioned, we've actually taken a lot of pricing in Oral Care behind strong innovation. So the Crest 3D White line, as an example, is a premium price line. Bob talked earlier about pricing taking many different forms. It is not all list price increases on existing products.

BOB MCDONALD: Crest Pro-Health or Oral-B Pro-Health is a price premium to the other items in the line. When we introduced Oral Care paste in Brazil, we introduced four different price points, with Pro-Health or Pro-Sante on the top. So we take pricing in a lot of different ways.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, that concludes today's conference. Thank you for your participation. You may now disconnect, and have a great day.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
prgml : The Procter & Gamble Company
   IN
iprscp : Personal Care Accessories | i2581 : Soap/Cleaning Products | ihair : Hair Care Products | i25 : Chemicals | i258 : Cosmetics/Toiletries | icnp : Consumer Products | inondhg : Nondurable Household Products | ipcare : Personal Care Products/Appliances
   NS
cbrand : Branding | e211 : Government Taxation/Revenue | c151 : Earnings | gcon : Consumer Affairs | c11 : Plans/Strategy | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | c31 : Marketing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e21 : Government Finance | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | glife : Living/Lifestyle | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | uk : United Kingdom | ven : Venezuela | fra : France | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | lamz : Latin America | medz : Mediterranean | namz : North America | samz : South America | weurz : Western Europe
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020110512e74s004h5
  


 HD
 Q2  2011  Procter  & Gamble Company Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
12,673 words
   PD
27 January 2011
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©011 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
OPERATOR: Good day ladies and gentlemen. At this time, all participants are in listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session. (Operator Instructions).

Before we begin, the Company has asked the following statement to be read.

   TD
UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: Good morning and welcome to Procter & Gamble's quarter-end conference call. Today's discussion will include a number of forward-looking statements. If you will refer to P&G's most recent 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K reports, you will see a discussion of factors that could cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from these projections. As required by Regulation G, P&G needs to make you aware that, during the call, the Company will make a number of references to non-GAAP and other financial measures. Management believes these measures provide investors valuable information on the underlying growth trends of the business. Organic refers reported results, excluding the impact of acquisitions and divestitures and foreign exchange, where applicable.

Free cash flow represents operating cash flow less capital expenditures. Free cash flow productivity is the ratio of free cash flow to net earnings.

Core EPS refers to earnings per share from continuing operations, excluding certain items. The effective tax rate on core earnings represents the effective tax rate on continuing operations less non-core impacts.

P&G has posted on its website, www.PG.com, a full reconciliation of non-GAAP and other financial measures.

Now, I will turn the call over to P&G's Chief Financial Officer, Jon Moeller.

JON MOELLER, VP, CFO, PROCTER & GAMBLE CO.: Thanks and good morning, everyone. Bob McDonald and Teri List join me this morning. I'll begin today's call with a summary of our second-quarter results. Teri will cover business highlights by operating segment. I will conclude the call with guidance for both the fiscal year and the March quarter. Bob, Teri, and I will take questions, as usual, after our prepared remarks. Following the call, we will be available to provide additional perspective as needed.

Our second quarter was another period of solid volume and market share progress. We grew organic sales ahead of market growth rates, we built share broadly, and we delivered core earnings per share growth above the high end of our guidance range.

Volume increased 6%. The growth was broad-based with all regions, 16 of our top 17 countries, five of six reporting segments, and 19 of our $23 billion brands delivering volume growth versus the prior year. Global marketshare on a constant dollar value basis grew again this quarter and is now up versus the prior year for the past 12, six and three-month periods.

Share growth in the quarter was also broad-based. We grew market share in all geographic regions and held our built share in 12 of our top 17 countries and 16 of our $23 billion brands. Overall market share is in line or up and businesses representing about 60% of global sales. The strong volume in share progress continues to be driven by innovation and expansion programs that flow from our overarching growth strategy to serve more consumers and more parts of the world more completely.

We are extending our existing category portfolios to reach more consumers with innovations such as Naturella feminine care pads and Head & Shoulders shampoo in Brazil, Gain hand dishwashing liquid in North America, Naturella and the Gillette Fusion shaving system in China, and Gillette Guard in India. We are serving consumers in more parts of the world by entering new category/country combinations such as the launch of Olay skincare in Brazil, Febreze air care in Colombia and Brazil, and Downy fabric care in Indonesia.

We are serving consumers more completely by leveraging and expanding recent innovations, such as Pampers Dry Max which we have now expanded to more than 50 countries; tide Acti-Lift, which is driving solid market share growth in the US; Crest 3D White and Crest Clinical, which have driven US toothpaste market shares to near record levels of over 38%; and Gillett Fusion ProGlide, which started shipping to Germany and France in December. Organic sales grew more than 3%, about 1 point ahead of global market growth rates, albeit at the low end of our guidance range.

Markets for our products continue to grow at a healthy rate in developing markets in the range of 6% to 8%, consistent with our projections. However, developed market growth rates were essentially flat for the quarter compared to our expectation for growth of about 1%. Considering that developed markets account for two-thirds of our sales, this difference in market growth was enough to round organic sales down to 3% versus being a solid 4%.

Pricing and mix reduced sales by 2 points. Mix reduced sales by approximately 2 points and pricing was down only slightly for the quarter. Versus the July/September quarter, price mix improved by more than 0.5 point and price mix improved sequentially each month during the December quarter.

The price mix and related organic sales improvement was broad-based. Five of the six reporting segments had a smaller price mix impact in the December quarter than in the September quarter, and five of the six segments delivered quarter-to-quarter improvements in organic sales growth.

The improvements in price mix came mainly from pricing as we continue to annualize adjustments taken early last fiscal year. Pricing rounded to 0 for the quarter and will turn positive in the second half of the fiscal year. We've now lapsed the adjustments we made to brands such as Duracell, Cheer, and the large sizes of Tide and the multiple brands in the Central and Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa region. The mix impact was due primarily to geographic mix of about 1 point as the developed market volume grew 3% and developing market volume grew 10%.

Product mix and price-tier mix each affected sales growth by about 0.5 points. All-in sales grew 2%. This includes a 2% negative impact from foreign exchange and a modest benefit from the net impact of acquisitions and divestiture.

All-in GAAP earnings per share were $1.11, down versus the prior-year GAAP earnings per share of $1.49, which included the large gain from the divestiture of the pharmaceuticals business. Core earnings per share were $1.13, $0.02 above the top end of our guidance range and up 3% versus prior-year core earnings per share of $1.10. Our core earnings per share results benefited from organic sales growth, cost savings, a decline in the effective tax rate, and a reduction in shares outstanding, which more than offset negative impacts from higher input costs and higher marketing and portfolio expansion investments. The $0.02 difference between current-period GAAP and core earnings per share reflects charges taken to update legal reserve balances, which were largely offset by a non-core tax benefit from the pending settlement of tax litigation primarily related to the deductibility of technology donations. The legal item relates to the inquiries being competition authorities in Europe, including the European Commission, which we and a number of other manufacturers in our industry have previously disclosed.

Gross margin decreased 190 basis points due to higher commodity costs. Higher year-on-year commodity costs reduced gross margin by 160 basis points. For perspective, on a weighted average basis, spot prices for our key materials and energy inputs are up more than 20% versus last year's levels.

Geographic and product mix reduced gross margin by approximately 100 basis points. The higher input costs and mix impacts were partially offset by strong savings programs and cost of goods, which contributed roughly 140 basis points positive to gross margin.

Operating margin declined 210 basis points due mainly to lower gross margin. SG&A spending as a percentage of sales increased 20 basis points versus prior-year levels due to higher investments to support our innovation and expansion plans.

The effective tax rate on all-in earnings was approximately 18%. This includes the benefit of the non-core tax item which reduced the all-in tax rate by about 4.5 points. The effective tax rate on core earnings was 22.4%. This rate reflects the benefit of a favorable mix impact from the faster growth of our business in developing markets, where tax rates are generally lower, and the impact of the two-year extension of US tax laws which passed in late December. Given our fiscal year reporting calendar, the US tax extension causes a catch-up adjustment for the September quarter to get our year-to-date rate in line with average rates expected for the full year. The rate also reflects the successful audit defense of our tax status in several markets.

We generated over $2 billion in free cash flow in the quarter. We continue to expect free cash flow productivity of 90% or more of net earnings for the year as operating profit growth increases in the second half. So far this fiscal year, we've returned $6.4 billion of cash to shareholders, comprised of over $2.8 billion in dividends and over $3.5 billion in share repurchases.

In summary, we are pleased with the progress we've made in the first half of the fiscal year, despite slower-than-expected market growth rates and significant increases in commodity costs. We are growing market share broadly behind our innovation and expansion efforts. Volume growth remains very strong and core earnings per share growth for the first half is slightly ahead of our going-in expectations.

Now, I'll turn the call over to Teri to review highlights of the business segment results.

TERI LIST, SVP, TREASURER, PROCTER & GAMBLE CO.: Thanks John.

Starting with beauty, organic sales increased by 3%. Organic volume contributed 6 points of growth. Developed markets were flat and developing markets increased double digits contributing to 2 points of geographic and product mix (technical difficulty) pricing was down 1 point.

Retail Hair Care shipments increased high single digits with developed markets growing low single digits and developing markets growing midteens. Asia led the growth, increasing shipments by about 20% and growing share by over 1 point. Both Pantene and Head & Shoulders shipments grew over 25% in China, the Philippines and India.

Latin America also had strong volume growth. Brazil shampoo value share increased over 1.5 points with the launch of Head & Shoulders and with Pantene shipments growing more than 50%. Female skincare volume grew double digits and market share was up nearly half 0.5 point. Olay skincare volume in India and the Philippines more than doubled versus year ago, and Russia shipments increased by about 80%. In Brazil, the Olay expansion continued ahead of expectations.

In developed markets, female skincare volume increased high single digits. US Olay skincare shipments increased high single digits behind strong marketing and sales fundamentals and the launch of Olay Regenerist Night Elixer and the new Olay Pro-X cleansing device. Female blades and razors continue to deliver strong results, growing volume by high single digits in both developed and developing markets, and increasing global market share for the third consecutive quarter.

Prestige organic shipments increased low single digits. Prestige skincare volume was up double digits but by China, where SK-II was up more than 60%. Prestige Fragrance organic shipments were up low single digits behind the success of recent initiatives, including Gucci Guilty and Dolce and Gabbana The One Gentleman.

Salon Professional shipments were down double digits due to the decline of nonstrategic businesses and continued streamlining of the portfolio. The Grooming segment organic sales were up 6% and volume growth of 5%, and 1% contribution from price increases on blades and razors. Male blades and razors global shipments increased mid-single digits, developing market volume grew high single digits led by Asia and Latin America. India blades and razors share increased almost 4 points to over 45%, driven by continued strength of the Mach 3 brand and the Gillette Guard launch. Mach 3 shipments grew over 70% in Mexico and over 20% in Brazil, driven by the launch of Mach 3 Sensitive as well as marketing and trade programs to increase consumer awareness.

Developed market volume was up low single digits, including the impact from constrained supply of Fusion and Fusion ProGlide. North America shipments were down slightly with volume and share growth in Fusion offset by softness in Mach 3, in line with our trade-up strategy which delivers positive sales mix. Western Europe volume increased high single digits driven by strong Mach 3 growth in Germany ahead of a price increase in January, and from Fusion ProGlide pipeline shipments in Germany and France prior to launch in January.

Male personal-care unit volume increased mid single digits. North America volume increased high single digits, driven by continued strength of the Old Spice brand which shipped more than 15% ahead of year ago.

Healthcare organic sales increased 5%. Volume grew 5% as well and pricing and mix were neutral. Oral Care grew shipments high single digits and global value share over 0.5 point. North America Oral Care increased volume double digits and value share by 1.5 points to over 38% behind the continued success of Crest 3D White, the Crest Clinical line, and the Crest For Me innovations. Western Europe grew volume high single digits and value share by nearly 1.5 points, driven by Oral-B Power Brush and Oral-B toothpaste success in Benelux.

Developing market unit volume increased mid single digits. Latin America shipments grew more than 25% versus year ago. Brazil Oral-B volume was up nearly 50% behind the continued expansion and support of Oral-B toothpaste. Mexico was also very strong with Crest volume up nearly 50%, Oral-B up nearly 30%, and toothpaste value share increasing over 3.5 points.

Feminine care unit volume increased mid single digits with developing markets up high single digits. Naturella volume grew about 30%, driven by expansion into Brazil in October and China last March. India and the Philippines both increased Always volume shipments over 35% behind recent initiatives on both mid- and premium-tier products.

Developed market shipments grew low single digits. Western Europe shipments were up low single digits and value increased -- value share increased by 1.5 points. Always shipments in the UK increased over 15% behind the Always Simply Fits mid-tier initiative that launched in January 2010.

Personal healthcare shipments were up low single digits with developing markets growing more than 15% versus year ago. Both Mexico and Brazil mix shipments grew over 30% behind strong commercial innovation and expectations of a strong cold and flu season.

Snacks and Pet Care organic sales declined 8%. The solid growth in Snacks was more than offset by sharp declines on Pet. Organic volume was down 6% with product and geographic mix down 1%. Snack shipments grew mid single digits and with growth across all five geographic regions.

Latin America grew volume by about 20% behind the Extreme Pringles initiatives and holiday-focused commercial innovation. Central and Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa region, as well as overall developing markets, grew volume nearly 20%. Developed market shipments increased low single digits with North America returning to share growth behind improved customer support.

Pet Care volume is down due to the temporary supply disruption mentioned last quarter. The restructuring and process improvements are nearing completion. We expect to restore full supplies and merchandising capability within the next two months.

Fabric and Home Care organic sales increased 2%. Organic volume growth was 5%, with developed markets up mid single digits and developing markets up high single digits. The positive volume was partially offset by 3 points of geographic and product mix and 1 point of pricing.

Fabric Care grew unit volume mid single digits with developing markets up high single digits. Value share grew across all geographic regions and was up 0.5 points globally. US laundry value share increased over 1.5 points with growth in Tide, Gain an ERA. US fabric enhancers value share increased over 2.5 points with all brands growing.

Japan also had strong growth with volume increasing over 15% due to a combination of sustaining and commercial innovations on Bold, Ariel, and Lenor.

Developing market shipments were strong in many markets. In India, Tide shipments increased about 60% behind the continued growth of Tide Naturals and total laundry value share increased by 2 points. In Russia, Tide unit volume was up over 35% due to strong marketing support and Lenor Fabric Enhancer unit volume was up over 50% due to a consumption increase from a product compaction introduced in October. In Brazil, Ariel shipments almost doubled behind the growth of liquid detergents, and total laundry value share increased more than 2.5 points.

The Home Care segment increased organic unit volume high single digits, with all regions growing. Global value share was up over 1 point to 18%. North America grew shipments mid single digits and value share over 2 points behind the success of the recent Gain Hand Dish brand and Febreze Set 'N Refresh innovation. Japan grew shipments about 40% and value share over 5 points to a 20 share, driving overall market growth in the region. With success behind several Febreze product innovations and the launch of Joy Hand Renewal, P&G is now the number one company in both dish care and air care categories in Japan.

Home Care developing markets grew organic shipments in the mid teens. The Central and Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa region increased organic volume by more than 15% and grew value share 2 points. Dish care was the primary driver of the growth with Russia ferry shipments increasing 25% behind the "winter hands" commercial innovation and with volume continuing to grow in recently expanded markets such as Turkey and Egypt. The Asia region also experienced very strong growth with Philippines hand dish and Korea air care both increasing volume about 30% and share over 4 points, driven by increased levels of marketing support to drive trial and excellent in-store execution.

Battery's unit volume increased high single digits. Developed markets shipments grew high single digits behind a very strong holiday season. In developing markets, volume increased mid single digits. India shipments of Duracell were up about 70% due to increased distribution to more retail outlets.

Baby and Family Care delivered 6% organic sales growth behind volume growth of 8%. Mix reduced sales by 2 points as developing markets grew about three times faster than developed markets as well as disproportionate growth of mid-tier and large-size products. Pricing was neutral. Baby Care shipments were up high single digits and global value share increased more than 1 point with all regions growing share. Developed market shipments increased low single digits. US diaper value share was up nearly 1 point on a declining market and volume was flat. Luvs volume was up mid single digits, driven by the "Heavy-Duty Protection" initiative. Western Europe increased volume low single digits and value share over 1.5 points behind the Dry Max launch and an overnight dryness initiative on Pampers Baby Dry.

Baby Care increased developing market shipments in the mid teens. India Pampers shipments grew more than 50% and share grew 1.5 points in a fast-growing market. Papers Brazil volume grew over 25%, and China volume grew nearly 20%, driven by distribution gains, marketing investments and market growth.

Family Care grew volume high single digits and increased value share by almost 0.5 point. Developed market shipments were up high single digits. US Charmin volume increased over 10%, driven by success of recent product improvements, strong marketing support and distribution gains in Charmin Basic. Developing market shipments increased more than 30% driven primarily by improved value impressions in Mexico.

That concludes the business segment review. Now, I'll have the call back to Jon to discuss guidance for the fiscal year and the March quarter.

JON MOELLER: Thanks Teri.

Our guidance for organic sales and earnings per share growth for the fiscal year is unchanged. Our outlook for organic sales growth remains at 4% to 6%. We're also maintaining our guidance for all-in sales growth of 3% to 5%.

As we said last quarter, where we land within this range will be driven by two factors, underlying market growth rates and our ability to grow ahead of market rates. As I mentioned earlier we are delivering growth ahead of the market and we are growing share. However, underlying market growth rates in North America and Western Europe have been lower than expected so far this fiscal year.

The core earnings per share guidance range stays at $3.91 to $4.01, which equals growth of 7% to 9% versus prior-year core earnings per share of $3.67. While we are not changing our core earnings per share guidance, there are two items worth noting. First, we now expect commodity costs will be an earnings headwind of about $1 billion after-tax. This is roughly double the impact we expected at the start of the year. Second, we now expect the effective tax rate will likely be below 26% for the year, due to the ongoing shift of our geographic mix, the positive progress we've made in resolving outstanding audits, and the extension of US tax laws.

The volatility we are experiencing in market growth rates, input costs and foreign exchange drive an approach of providing reasonable and appropriately wide guidance ranges for sales and earnings per share growth. As we've said on a number of occasions, we will not chase foreign exchange or commodities or back off on investments simply to deliver a top-of-range number or an external estimate. Our actions will continue to be guided by our desire to advance our strategy and by our overriding objective of creating long-term value for shareholders.

On the bottom line, all-in GAAP earnings per share range is now $3.89 to $3.99, which includes the $0.02 per share impact from the non-core legal and tax items in the December quarter.

Regarding share repurchase, we continue to outlook a range of $6 billion to $8 billion for the year.

Before going into the March quarter details, I want to address a few points on front-half versus back-half trends. Our fiscal year guidance implies acceleration in organic sales growth, operating profit, and core earnings per share in the second half. We are comfortable with this guidance for several reasons.

On the topline, there are three factors worth noting. First, and most important, we have strong momentum in volume and market share growth, and we are confident that our innovation and expansion plans will sustain solid volume growth rates. We will continue to leverage the innovations and expansions that first reached the market last year, and we have plans to enter 12 new category country combinations, 40 new category price tier combinations, and 25 new category channel combinations in the second half.

Second, as I mentioned earlier, we will have a better pricing comparison than we have had over the last four quarters. Pricing will swing from negative to positive by the end of the fiscal year, moving from a 1 point drag in the first half to up to a 1 point help in the second half.

As we discussed on the call last quarter, if we simply hold the average sales per unit flat at the level we just delivered in the December quarter, the year-on-year price and mix impact should improve by as much as 3 points by the end of the year, from down about 2.5 points this quarter to neutral to positive in the June quarter.

Third, the supply constraints that created the topline headwind in the first half of the year in oral care, blades and razors, body washes and pet care should largely be behind us. We've announced to retailers that we should be back to full supply and merchandising capability on these businesses in the near future.

On the bottom line, we're forecasting core earnings per share growth in the range of 10% to 16% in the second half. This rapid EPS acceleration is heavily influenced by dynamics in the base period, not by unusual trends in the current year. In fact, the front-half versus back-half balance of earnings this year is very similar to what we've delivered on average over the past five years. Last fiscal year was the anomaly with lower-than-normal operating profit in the second half. The challenges we faced in the second half of last year from higher commodity costs, foreign exchange and increased marketing investments all lead to easier comparisons in the second half of this year.

Now moving to the March quarter, we are estimating organic sales growth in the range of 4% to 6%. We expect all-in sales growth of 5% to 7%. Within this, we expect foreign exchange to add about 1% to sales growth and the net impact of acquisitions and divestitures to be roughly neutral to sales growth.

On the bottom line, earnings per share is estimated in the range of $0.95 to $1. This translates to core earnings per share growth of 7% to 12% for the quarter versus base period core earnings per share of $0.89. We expect strong operating profit growth in the quarter.

In closing, as I said earlier, we're pleased with the progress we've made in the first half of this year. We are touching and improving the lives of more consumers in more parts of the world more completely and we are seeing the result in broad-based volume and market share growth. We are better integrating our plans across categories and geographies to operate more fully as one company, and we are simplifying our operations, reducing costs while increasing our productivity, efficiency and agility.

To be clear, there is still more work to do. We need to deliver the price mix improvement we are forecasting while sustaining solid volume growth. We need to grow market share on more brands and in more markets. We need to improve our demand forecasting and supply planning so we can more fully leverage our new innovations and portfolio expansions. And given the rising input cost environment, we need even more focus on identifying and delivering cost savings in all parts of the business. We are confident that, through our growth and operating strategies, we will deliver the acceleration in topline and bottom-line results that we expect.

Now, Bob, Teri, and I would be happy to take your questions.

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Lauren Lieberman, Barclays Capital.

LAUREN LIEBERMAN, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Thank you. Good morning. I just wanted to ask a bit about the commodity sort of surprise, both for the rest of the year but also particularly in the quarter. So at what point in the quarter were you guys realizing that commodities were a much bigger headwind than expected? I would assume that's the case based on the gross margin performance. I'd love any commentary you can offer very specifically around pricing initiatives related to the greater gross margin pressure than you'd expected before. Thanks.

BOB MCDONALD, CHAIRMAN, PRESIDENT, CEO, PROCTER & GAMBLE CO.: Commodities really continued to -- the pricing on commodities continued to accelerate throughout the quarter. But I would tell you that it's more of a year-ago comparison than it is a sequential increase in commodities. Commodity costs increased 6% versus the September quarter, but as we said earlier, they are up about 20% versus year ago.

You're absolutely right to ask the question on how we manage -- how we plan to manage those increased commodity costs going forward. I mentioned continued focus on cost savings, which will clearly be part of this. We'll also look at pricing in commodity exposed businesses where that's appropriate.

The last thing I would say is, as we've talked before, just on a comparative basis, we should have a much better commodity comparison in the second half than we had in the first half, as this long run up that we've been on really started in the second half of last fiscal year.

OPERATOR: Chris Ferrara, Bank of America.

CHRIS FERRARA, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Thanks guys. I guess I wanted to get into market growth rates. It seems like maybe US and Western Europe I guess slowed a little bit more than you had expected in the end of the quarter, maybe in December, maybe post-analyst day. Can you talk about how the market growth rates progressed and how you see that playing out into the beginning of the calendar year 2011? Then I guess whether you think there are going to be tools to sort of get growth going to drive growth higher in those categories. Thanks.

BOB MCDONALD: We began the fiscal year expecting a global market growth rate of 3% to 4%. This assumed developed markets grew 1% to 2% and developing markets grew 6% to 8%. Developing markets have grown, as we expected, but developed markets, particularly in the United States, have underperformed. For the first half of the fiscal year, developed markets grew only about 0.5%, and we continue to expect to grow 1% to 2% above market growth rate levels due to our strong multi-year innovation program expansion programs, which Jon and Teri talked about.

For the specific quarter, in terms of value growth, North America, Western Europe and Japan were all flat. The developing markets were up about 8%.

Importantly, we grew share in North America, Western Europe and Japan even though the -- partly because the markets were flat but also because of our high-volume growth rates. In North America, we grew share in December higher than we've grown it in four years. In Western Europe, we've had 12 consecutive months of share growth. In Japan, we are the only company in our industry growing share, and we're growing share in about 90% of our business.

In terms of the evolution of the market growth through the quarter, there was a pretty significant drop-off towards the end of the quarter. While it's qualitative judgment, it looks like what may have happened is that consumers, as you saw in the retail sales figures, actually spent on Christmas, and by the end of the month, there wasn't a lot left.

OPERATOR: John Faucher, JPMorgan.

JOHN FAUCHER, ANALYST, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: Thank you. Jon, you talked a little bit about the pricing comparisons and how those are going to play out over the course of I guess calendar 2011. It looks -- it sounds as though you're expecting a similar level of volume share performance in 2011 versus 2010. So despite the fact that you won't have the pricing advantage, can you talk a little bit about the volume comps and the way they play out in a similar way, and how you expect your volume share performance to be in 2011 versus 2010. Thanks.

JON MOELLER: Sure. We do expect similar levels of volume growth in the second half as compared to the first half. So that assumption is correct. It really would be driven by two things, one, the continued expansion of our investment and expansion program. I talked in my comments about the number of category country -- category price tier and channel entries, which is very significant in the second part of the year, so that will be a big driver of continued volume progress.

Then I also mentioned -- I mentioned it in the sales context but it is relevant in a volume context that we had, because of more demand than we expected for a number of our innovations, we were supply constrained pretty significantly on a number of categories in the first half. That situation is largely behind us, so as we are able to fully leverage those innovations, we should see more growth.

I'll just give you one example. On Fusion ProGlide, where demand was much higher than we expected in North America, we effectively had to make significant reductions in merchandising as we went through the back of the year, and will essentially be, if you will, relaunching Fusion ProGlide in North America as well as expanding it across the world.

BOB MCDONALD: I think I'll just comment on Fusion ProGlide, if I can, John, because if you simply look at the market share, you may get the wrong impression. Fusion ProGlide is performing really well, and we're pleased with the initial results after only seven months in market. The Fusion shares in the US have reached 34%, which is up 3 points versus year ago. But regarding comparison to competitive launches, you can see where it looks like we've lost some share on blades and razors in the US. That's because of the supply constraint and because we've had to cancel merchandising of [it exists]. But we're confident that once we put that merchandising back in place, which we are now doing, that the sales will take off. What we know from our research is that sales of US Fusion ProGlide cartridges have been at the rate of more than six times the rate of Fusion ProGlide razors, while the competitive replacement cartridges are only selling about two times the razor sales. That's a key metric for us.

OPERATOR: Andrew Sawyer, Goldman Sachs.

ANDREW SAWYER, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: I was hoping you guys could just talk a little bit about the Fabric and Home Care numbers, and I guess what's driving the sales slowdown there and if anything there surprises you.? Also if you could shape up how you're performing from a market share perspective, both on the volume and the dollar sales side.

JON MOELLER: We are growing market share in Fabric and Home Care. We have a number of terrific innovations in market, things like Ariel and Tide Acti-Lift, things like the line of additive products which we've now launched in many countries around the world. So, we are happy with our share growth in those markets. I think the thing that's probably affecting us more than anything else is a lack of market growth in this market because we are growing share.

OPERATOR: Nik Modi, UBS.

NIK MODI, ANALYST, UBS: Good morning everyone. I just wanted to get a little more context on the developed markets. You talk about market growth rates being lower than you expected. Can you decompose that? Is this from the unit side or is it because there are still a lot of promo spending out there that's been inefficient? Can you provide any context on the general market growth environment in Japan, Western Europe and North America?

JON MOELLER: The promotion volume, just answer that part of the question, are -- the promotion levels are actually reducing or narrowing sequentially, so that is not what's driving this. It's more fundamental consumer demand.

BOB MCDONALD: I think, for example, look at Western Europe. When you look at the UK, for example, which had a negative economic situation, we are still growing share in the UK on a large segment of our business. In Japan, it's basically a story. Since the burst of the economic bubble, as you know, Japan's had trouble creating macroeconomic growth, particularly given the demographic problems they have. But we are growing share, as I said, there. 90% of our business we're growing share, and some of the strongest growth rates that we've had in Japan since we entered Japan in 1973.

In North America, as I said, as Jon indicated, we think there was a slowdown in consumer spending on our products after the holidays. We are seeing that pick back up, but the good news is we, again, we had our highest share growth in December in four years in North America. So, again, we think we're doing the right things and the innovations we are marketing are selling.

JON MOELLER: On the macro level, as Bob indicated, we are seeing -- and it's early, but in January, the markets are improving a little bit, particularly in North America. We really haven't seen the impact on market growth rates yet of the pretty significant stimulus, if you will, in the context of the income tax extension that happened at the very end of this quarter.

OPERATOR: Bill Schmitz, Deutsche Bank.

BILL SCHMITZ, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Good morning. Did you announce any list price increases? I know you said if you just held the price per unit flat, you get 3 points (inaudible). So I'm kind of confused about it also because if the price per unit is the same this year as last year, I'm not sure how you get that 3 points. But the other question is do you have any big list price increases? Then as a side question, housekeeping-wise, can you give us guidance for the tax rate for the March quarter?

BOB MCDONALD: On pricing, Bill, we recently announced pricing effective mid March on Duracell in North America. We've taken foreign exchange related price increases to protect the structural economics of our business in places such as Venezuela. We've increased pricing in India one Tide Plus in July, and again we did that in October. In September, we increase prices on feminine care and diapers in India to recover changes in excise duties. We are also taking some actions in Oral Care in Western Europe, some in Baby Care in Central Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa. I've talked about India laundry, and I've talked about Venezuela. So that's generally the pricing that we have taken.

Part of the Duracell pricing is of course returning to the pre-value plan pack sizes on affected AA and AAA packs, and we are increasing the pricing across much of the balance of the battery portfolio. The battery announcement affects about 70% of our business.

JON MOELLER: On the tax rate, Bill, the two items that I mentioned of the three that affected our tax rate in O&D, those are the core items, will carry forward. So to the extent we continue developing disproportionately, growing disproportionately in developing markets, that will continue to have a tax benefit that is sustainable going forward. Obviously, the US tax legislation is sustainable going forward. We've given you a tax rate on the year. You can get pretty close to the quarter with the actuals in that number. Tax is an area of volatility, but I think you can get pretty close.

I just want to dwell on that point for one more minute. If you look at the drivers of the organic tax rate on the quarter, I do want to reiterate the point that we really view two of those as completely sustainable going forward. So really there is, if you will, a one-time item related to successful defense of tax audits. That's $0.03 to $0.04 on the second quarter.

OPERATOR: Joe Altobello, Oppenheimer.

JOE ALTOBELLO, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER & CO.: Thanks, good morning guys. I just wanted to follow-up on the answer you gave to Bill Schmitz regarding pricing. Are those pricing changes incremental to your business model? The reason I ask is because (inaudible) you're talking about roughly and incremental $0.16 or $0.17 headwind from commodities. I'm just trying to figure out how you're making that up. It doesn't sound like you're pricing commentary is all that different on a full-year basis. So I'm just trying to figure how those two statements equate to each other. Thanks.

BOB MCDONALD: We haven't taken yet -- Bill, you're absolutely right -- Joe, sorry -- commodity related pricing increases to any large extent. Obviously, it would be inappropriate for us to comment on future pricing activities, but we'll continue to stay committed to a healthy economic structure, both through cost savings as a way to offset commodities and, where appropriate, we will take price increases.

OPERATOR: Connie Maneaty, BMO Capital Markets.

CONNIE MANEATY, ANALYST, BMO CAPITAL MARKETS: Good morning. Could you talk in some detail about the profit dynamics in the Fabric and Home Care segments again? Because as I am looking at the quarter, are we headed for another period where the profit will have declined for an extended period of time? What do you think would start to turn that in a more sustainably healthy direction?

BOB MCDONALD: As we tried to explain at a company level, but it's clearly true in Fabric and Home Care, we get into a much better comparative cost situation in the back half across the board. The commodity costs index in the second quarter is much higher than it will be in the back half of the year, again because commodities in the base period started their ramp-up in the back half.

You will recall last year that we had significant -- that our marketing expense was significantly back-half loaded. This year, it's more evenly distributed. Foreign exchange was a hurt and the first half of this year is a help at current spot rates and the back half of next year.

What you're seeing on the income statement for Fabric and Home Care in the second quarter reflects all of those dynamics, but also reflects the fact that Fabric and Home Care is one of our most commodity-exposed businesses. So that commodity increase that occurred has a disproportionate impact on that segment. Typically, where we have commodity-exposed categories and at the appropriate levels of commodity price increases we would look to price to recover.

OPERATOR: Dara Mohsenian, Morgan Stanley.

DARA MOHSENIAN, ANALYST, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: Good morning. Clearly, you've sacrificed some profitability here in the short-term over the last few quarters as you focused on volume growth, and yet your organic sales growth is coming in at the low end of what you expected and is pretty muted on a year-over-year basis. At the same time, commodity costs are now re-inflating. So I'm just wondering if, conceptually, we should expect to see more of a focus on profitability and pricing going forward, and if you'd expect any adjustment to that strategy.

BOB MCDONALD: When we started on the strategy back in the April, May, June quarter of 2009, we talked about the fact that we needed to grow market share profitably. At that time, we were growing market share in about a quarter of our business, and we had suffered one of the worst quarters in a few decades in our company. What we've been doing is, following that glide path towards our guidance for this fiscal year which is 7% to 9% core EPS growth for the fiscal year and 5% to 6% -- I'm sorry, 4% to 6% organic NOS growth. We are on that glide path. We are now growing market share or holding market share in about 60% of our business globally, and we think the strategies are working.

JON MOELLER: Just to build on that, we are actually, on an earnings per share standpoint, ahead of the glide path in terms of slightly over-delivering the first half of the year. So just to reiterate Bob's point, we're right on track in terms of what we expected to deliver, which involves a significant amount of earnings per share growth this fiscal year.

OPERATOR: Doug Lane, Jefferies.

DOUG LANE, ANALYST, JEFFERIES & CO.: Good morning everybody. Just looking at changes since the September quarter, I notice that, on your market share progress, there is one less of your top 17 countries and one less of your $23 billion brands growing market share. I just wondered if you could update us on the current market share trends accounting for that differential.

BOB MCDONALD: What I would say is that our market share is stronger today than it even was in the last quarter. You know, metrics may look otherwise, but the point that we made which I think it significant is for the first time in some time, we are now growing market share over the past 12 months, past nine months, past six months, past three-month period. That's a very difficult thing to do -- and past one-month period. If you go across our regions, every region is growing market share over every one of those time periods. So in other words, let's take North America as an example. The past three months, we are up 0.1%, past six months we are up 0.1%, past 12 months, Asia the past three months up 0.6%, past six months up 0.6%, past 12 months up 0.4%. So as we look across the regions, our market share growth is strengthening. As we look across our businesses by business unit, our Household Care market share is strengthening, our Health and Well-Being market share is strengthening, and our Beauty market share is strengthening from what we would argue was a pretty unacceptable level over a year ago now. So, we feel like the market share is growing and that it's going to continue to grow. Further evidence of that is the fact that private label shares are down versus year ago for three straight reporting periods in the US and six consecutive periods in Western Europe. I understand the volume results of some of our competitors have not been very good.

OPERATOR: Ed Kelly, Credit Suisse.

ED KELLY, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Good morning. I'd like to get back on the commodity headwind issue. Could you just discuss your confidence in the ability to pass through commodity-based price increases in an environment where the consumer is clearly a little bit weaker than what you thought? Will the consumer and even the retailer for that matter accept them? Then on the cost savings side, how much of the incremental commodity hit will be absorbed by cost saves? Is that in COGS, SG&A or both? Thank you.

JON MOELLER: In terms of ability to pass through, we are really in a very good position in that regard. You may recall us talking historically about our desire always to link pricing, when it's necessary, to innovation. With our focus on innovation and a very strong portfolio of innovation in the second half, we are actually at a pretty good place. These commodity cost increases, where they are occurring, are broad-based. In other words, they are affecting not just ourselves but they are affecting private label brands. So, we don't expect there to be a surprise in the context of retailer receptivity. They're going to have a need here as well to the extent these trends continue.

BOB MCDONALD: We'll obviously be working to develop substitute materials for those that are rising quickly. Some of them are very, very specific, like lauric acid, and we know what those chemicals are and we will work to obviate the cost increases while as John says, if we can't offset it, we will price for it.

JON MOELLER: To the question of how much we can offset, if you look at the second quarter, we offset almost all of the commodity cost increase. We had 140 basis points of savings that offset most of the 160 basis points of commodity cost increases. As we talked about on analyst day, we will continue focusing on SG&A savings as well, so it will be a combination of all of the above.

OPERATOR: Jason Gere, RBC Capital Markets.

JASON GERE, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Thanks. Good morning. Just a question I guess on total marketing spending, really tradesman versus advertising. So we are hearing right, it sounds like you're saying that promotional spending is starting to narrow a little bit. I was wondering if you could kind of talk about some of the categories where you are starting to see that trend.

Then just when we think about the back half, the advertising, I know you have a really tough comparison versus last year, and I don't think you were really planning on a major step-up. Hopefully, that plays into some of the stronger operating profit in the third quarter. But with -- it seems like there's a little bit struggling of demand in North America and your competition, as you pointed out, their volumes have not been good. I was just wondering about the need to even increase the advertising beyond what you stated at your analyst day. Thanks.

BOB MCDONALD: The marketing spend that we are seeing around the world, and I think North America is similar as well, is we are seeing somewhat of a deceleration of temporary price reduction or discounting. We are also seeing around the world, as Jon mentioned earlier, our comparisons in marketing spend are going to work to our favor in the second half. Certainly, that's part of the margin improvement in the second half as we come off of those higher marketing spend levels, yet we expect to tend the year about where we've ended every other year, which is about 10% or so of sales, which of course will be a higher number than the previous year since the sales number will be higher.

JON MOELLER: With the broad market share progress that Bob talked about, that's I think symptomatic of really having our marketing program where it needs to be. So, I don't expect to see significant increases going forward. As a result, as Bob rightly described, on a comp basis, that should pick us up some earnings headwind -- or tailwind in the back half.

BOB MCDONALD: I should say that our marketing effectiveness, we measure marketing ROI and marketing spend. Our marketing effectiveness is at all-time high levels. Part of the reason for that is we are doing a better job operating as one company, as we talked at the analyst day. When we operate as one company and take advantage of the full portfolio of brands that we have, it results in greater growth and it results in much better efficiency of our marketing spend.

OPERATOR: Jon Andersen, William Blair.

JON ANDERSEN, ANALYST, WILLIAM BLAIR & CO.: Good morning. I was wondering if you could compare and contrast perhaps the performance of some of your newer premium items versus mid-tier value offerings. I am just trying to get a sense of whether you're seeing any differences in the strength of your portfolio at a premium versus kind of value end. Thank you.

BOB MCDONALD: Thank you Jon. We already talked Fusion ProGlide, which I think is a wonderful example of, when you innovate at the high end, there is a lot of consumer demand. Just to reiterate because it's a key metric, the sales of the Fusion ProGlide cartridges have been at a rate that's more than six times the rate of ProGlide razors. That means people are coming back and buying more cartridges because they like the shave so much. In fact, as Jon said, we have not been able to supply them all. While our competitor replacement cartridges of their new item are only selling at about two times the razor sale.

Another great example is what we are doing on Crest Clinical Sensitivity and Crest Clinical Gum Protection, both of which are premium priced. They began shipping in August, and they're off to a great start. While early, the current in-market results have doubled our share in the sensitivity space. As opposed to a competitive product called Pro-Relief, Pro-Health is already FDA approved, and therefore it's in the US now. With this launch, we have two sensitivity SKUs in market, both Crest Pro-Health Sensitivity Shield and Crest Clinical Sensitivity. Both are doing extremely well despite the fact that they are premium priced.

Pampers Dry Max is another premium priced item. It's holding or growing share in 13 of our top 17 markets around the world. It's now in more than 50 countries worldwide. The results in Europe have been very strong with cumulative shipments up double digits since launch since last May, and value shares are up strongly versus year ago. Diaper value shares in Western Europe, for example, are 58%, which is up 2 full points versus year ago. In the US, Pampers shares are up 1.31%, and the vast majority of consumers who've tried Dry Max are very happy with it, with the comfort, with the dryness, and with their baby using it, and it's going well. So, the premium price innovations are doing extremely well and they are doing well because there is a lot of demand out there when you innovate.

JON MOELLER: On the lower end, as Teri mentioned in some of her discussion, we are seeing significant growth, for instance, in India Fabric Care, plus 50%. We are continuing to innovate very successfully at the low end as well. We wouldn't be generating the kind of volume growth, 10% volume growth, in developing markets if we weren't being successful really across the portfolio in terms of our innovation efforts.

OPERATOR: Bill Chappell, SunTrust.

BILL CHAPPELL, ANALYST, SUNTRUST ROBINSON HUMPHREY: Good morning. I'm sorry if I missed this, but you talked a lot about developed markets being below expectation. Did you say anything about developing markets, and maybe how they came in versus expectations and maybe how that's progressed throughout the quarter and into this year?

BOB MCDONALD: Just to make sure I'm clear on my articulation, what I said was that the market growth rate --

BILL CHAPPELL: Right, that's what I'm talking about.

BOB MCDONALD: (multiple speakers) was not to as high as we expected. In terms of developing markets, they are right on. They grew about 8% in value terms, and pretty consistently. Greater China was 8%; Central Eastern Europe, Middle East, Africa 6%; Latin America 8%; the Aussie end markets and Korea about 8%. So you see a real consistency there that averages about 8%. That is exactly what we projected at the beginning of the year. We said at the beginning of the year 7% to 8%, and it's right about there. It's really in the developed markets where we had projected higher numbers, and we had projected 3% to 4% and we're basically seeing, well, in the last quarter flat. But we -- I'm sorry, 1% to 2% is what we had projected and what we are seeing is flat.

Our expectation is that chances are that will pick up in the second half because we are seeing an economic recovery in these markets. But there still are some concerns out there, whether it's the fiscal and financial situation in places like Ireland, Spain or Greece, those are -- and the tax situation in the US, which we kind of dodged a bullet in December. We have to work with the US government to get the US corporate tax rate down. We now have the second highest corporate tax rate in the world. In the spring when Japan lowers theirs, we will have the highest. So we are working hard to help the US government understand that US companies, multinationals, need to be competitive. Lowering the corporate tax rate is one way to do it, and moving to a territorial versus worldwide system is another way to do it.

JON MOELLER: Just a question of our own growth trends in developing market, those are accelerating as we bring more of our portfolio to bear, so we are very optimistic in our view for our business in developing markets.

BOB MCDONALD: Yes, when you look at the number of opportunities that Jon talked about in his message that we are closing in the next half, it speaks to the kind of fundamental systemic sustainable growth we are going to create as we enter these new category/country combinations around the world. That's what we've done in the last six months. We are going to continue doing that.

OPERATOR: Tim Conder, Wells Fargo.

TIM CONDER, ANALYST, WELLS FARGO SECURITIES: Thank you. Could you give us a little more color on the developing and emerging markets? Where are you taking share? Is it coming from local competitors, larger competitors? Just by region maybe answer that question. Thank you.

BOB MCDONALD: With the kind of share that we are growing right now, Tim, where you're growing across all time periods, across most geographies, across most business units, the answer would have to be all of the above, because it's taking bits of share from every competitor rather than necessarily targeting a single competitor, while at the same time we have to say that our accelerated volume growth rate is also because we are in many categories where there virtually is no competitor. If you think about India diapers, for example, the competitor there largely is the bottom that's not diapered at all. When you think about even hair care in China, getting the consumer to wash their hair more than once a week. There's huge opportunity out there that isn't about just share growth, and that's why the 8% growth in developing markets is so critical.

OPERATOR: Caroline Levy, CLSA.

CAROLINE LEVY, ANALYST, CLSA LIMITED: Good morning. Thank you. I'm looking at price mix, and I'm wondering if you can articulate -- and I'm sorry if you have already -- but how much of the negative was country-driven versus the faster growth in lower-priced items. I'm also wondering, with Wal-Mart's announcement about its desire for more low-priced product, if you feel you are already where you need to be, or if that's going to put more pressure in the US and other developing -- developed markets on you needing to innovate in the lower price point.

BOB MCDONALD: First, on the specific question on the components of mix, mix had a 2 point negative impact. Half of that or 1 point was country mix. The rest was split across other forms of mix, but it's largely country mix, given the disproportionate growth in developing markets that we've been talking about this morning.

Relative to Wal-Mart, we are growing the business very well in Wal-Mart International and Sam's. The place where we are focusing to help Wal-Mart grow more is in US stores. The issue in US stores is not, for our business, is not largely SKU or price or even brand portfolio driven as much as it is sheer execution. We have partnered with Wal-Mart to create Family Movie Nights, which is a great thing. Our feedback from consumers is outstanding on this. They want to have a night they can get the family together and watch a movie and not have to have the remote in their hands to change channels. But our execution of that has not been as good as we would like. There have not been as many items in the tab as there should be; there haven't been as many displays in-store.

Another example of that is Wal-Mart took the decision some years ago to remove battery centers from their stores, and they lost quite a bit of business in the battery business. We are now working with Wal-Mart to reinstitute those battery centers. Not surprisingly, they are gaining back their closure rate and their market share on batteries. So it's really about our execution with Wal-Mart, Wal-Mart's execution with us, than it is about introducing a bunch of new low-priced SKUs.

OPERATOR: Ali Dibadj, Bernstein.

ALI DIBADJ, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & CO.: Thanks for taking the question. I would love I guess some help maybe, because on the one hand, I'm hearing you saying that the consumer will actually be able to absorb price increases from commodities. But on the other hand, you painted this picture that the consumer found it difficult to buy shampoo or diapers even after Christmas. So I guess, in that context and in the context of all your peers accelerating their own cost cutting to the level that's in line if not more than yours proportionally, I kind of want to ask about one potential way of plugging a hole, which is acquisitions. It seems like you've gone more open about acquisitions over the past little while, so 18 months ago, it was I would be more of a seller than the buyer. 12 months ago, is was bolt-on. In December, it was we would not rule out a big acquisition. It sounds like, this morning, correct me if I'm wrong, it sounds like there was more discussion about we are looking to add to our portfolio. So in all of that, how should we think about acquisition risk, and that essentially when we see that your buybacks dropped off last quarter versus this quarter pretty precipitously? So there's a lot in there, but that's what I'm thinking about.

JON MOELLER: Yes. First of all, acquiring to fill a hole implies you have a hole. As we've been trying to describe, we don't feel we have a hole. We are well on track with our plan at the present point.

In terms our general stance to acquisition, we talked probably four years ago about being a net seller, so that was quite a while ago. We have been focused on acquisitions, which allow us to realize our purposeness by our growth strategy. Ambi PUR is a very good example, allowed us to get from 17 countries in air care to 84 countries serving more consumers around the world. Those are opportunities that we are open to.

I continue to believe that a large acquisition, while never -- while you'd never write it off completely, is not a highly probable event. The buyback pattern really reflects simply our pattern of cash flow across the year. We expect, as I said in my comments, cash flow to accelerate as operating and earnings growth accelerates in the back half of the year. Having said that, we have purchased $3.5 billion of shares against a target of $6 billion to $8 billion, which would lead you right to the middle of the range on a prorated basis. So we are largely, again, on track.

BOB MCDONALD: The way I think of it, and I know Jon shares this, is that we should have growth plans to achieve our goals and our strategies without acquisitions. That's why one of the things we tried to communicate during the analyst day, and I remember you where there sitting in about the third or fourth row, is we now have detailed plans to enter 250 new category country white space opportunities, enter 750 new category country price tiers, enter 950 new category country channels by fiscal year 2015. This is not pie in the sky; this is not something we dream about. These are hard and fast plans and we put up copies of those plans during the meeting. So, any acquisition we would consider has to be measured as a use of cash against those opportunities that we already have. That is a relatively high bar, because we've been so deliberate in following this strategy and staging those opportunities.

OPERATOR: Alice Longley, Buckingham Research.

ALICE LONGLEY, ANALYST, BUCKINGHAM RESEARCH GROUP: Hi, good morning. I have some follow-up questions on the mix, and this is separate from the geographic mix. Can you tell us within the quarter in which regions your mix was negative? Was it negative within all of the major regions?

Number two, in which regions do you expect region mix, excuse me, to improve in the second half?

Then thirdly, you said one of the offsets to commodity cost pressures is innovation. How can this be helpful if the mix is still negative? Thank you.

BOB MCDONALD: First of all, as we just stated, the country price mix being 1 point, that leaves 1 point of mix across the geographies that isn't related to differential sales growth across those geographies. That is fairly consistent across the world. There are major differences in countries that we are seeing in terms of either brand mix or size mix that drives the rest of that. As I mentioned earlier, on our premium items, we've actually been supply constrained, which has held back our ability to fully leverage those initiatives both from a topline and a bottom-line standpoint. Now, we expect that to improve starting now, so that should be a help to price mix going forward.

OPERATOR: Linda Bolton Weiser, Caris.

LINDA BOLTON WEISER, ANALYST, CARIS & CO.: Hi. It just strikes me that your commentary about your earnings performance in general from a big picture perspective really relates a lot more to macro factors these days than it did ten years ago, you know, commodities and overall category growth. On the idea of category growth in developed markets, the only way to do that is through innovation, to expand the categories and then you'll have category growth. So can you -- it seems the innovations you are coming out with are not truly innovations in the sense like when you first came up with teeth whitening. That was expanding the Oral Care category. 3D White Express is not really a true innovation, just as an example. Can you kind of give us some comfort that, in FY 12 or FY 213, there's going to be more category expanding innovation that will help the growth in developed markets?

BOB MCDONALD: Well, the way we look at it is that we need to innovate in everything we do. So many of the innovations we do are category expanding. In other words, if you can get someone to wash their hair one more time a week -- for example, Head & Shoulders works better to prevent dandruff and to take care of your scalp the more frequently you use it. So as we advertise Head & Shoulders around the world, the number one selling shampoo around the world, we obviously work to get people to wash their hair more frequently because they get a better end result and the product works better. So we do work in existing categories to expand them.

Separately, we work to create new categories. We said in our analyst day that we are really ramping up our efforts to do more discontinuous innovation. Bruce Brown talked about this. We set up new business development units under each one of the vice chairs, and we are doing a lot of work. In fact, you may have seen the Fortune magazine article about the $2 a day consumer in China. We're doing a lot of work to figure out how to create new categories where categories don't exist.

I think, frankly, we would all argue with you a little bit as to whether something like Crest Pro-Health or 3D white is an innovation. I would simply point to the way the consumer votes, which is look at our market share, look at our volume results, look at our profit result in Oral Care, and that's how the consumer is voting. I think they are voting it's an innovation.

OPERATOR: Mark Astrachan, Stifel Nicolaus.

MARK ASTRACHAN, ANALYST, STIFEL NICOLAUS: Thanks and good morning everyone. I'm curious whether the supply constraints in the December quarter were more pronounced than they were in the September quarter. Then just unrelatedly, curious how you can effectively balance these rising commodity costs and your need to offset those cost savings with your focus on going after market share. It would seem like, to some extent, it sort of constrains one versus the other, so any sort of color there would be helpful. Thank you.

BOB MCDONALD: On the supply constraints, it would be true that, over the time that you're supply constrained, you're exacerbating the volume versus the potential because you're cutting featuring, you're cutting merchandise, you're cutting displays. That obviously has a cumulative impact. So could we -- if we could have, for example, have the features on Fusion ProGlide in the United States, certainly the business in December would've looked much better than it does today.

Relative to cost savings, cost savings is endemic in our culture. We talked at the analyst day about simplifying the organization. We talked about simplifying the number of SKUs, simplifying the number of colors of plastic, operating in different ways in logistics. So simplification is big for us.

The other thing that's big for us is digitization, where we are doing more of our R&D using simulation and modeling. We are doing more of our demand planning using simulation and modeling. We're doing a lot more in digitizing our business from end to end, from molecule creation to running our plants off of the point-of-sale data of our retailers. So that's critically important to us.

Then the third area of cost savings that we are working as well is to get more from the size of our company as operating as one company, because there is tremendous synergy in a company this size, and have not mined at all. So we are working to do that. So we've got quite a strong program within the Company around simplification, around savings, and that's enabled by digitization. We're going to keep after that.

JON MOELLER: Basically, the way we look at it is are those things that Bob described provide the financial fuel to invest, and commercializing and marketing our products. So I would not expect us, as part of squaring this circle, to be reducing investments in that area. We plan to continue to invest very strongly there, fueled by cost savings in other areas.

Only one other point that I would give you, Mark, to your question on the supply constraint, just trying to dimensionalize that, we think that was about 30 to 40 basis point impact on the topline in the second quarter. So that is significant. That's the difference between, in our case, a 3 and a 4. Again, it should turn into a tailwind in the second half.

OPERATOR: Alec Patterson, RCM.

ALEC PATTERSON, ANALYST, DRESDNER RCM GLOBAL INVESTORS: Thank you for hanging in there. Just as you guys are trying to illustrate how you believe you're succeeding on your long-term goals of growing in excess of the categories and filling out white space and all that, it would be helpful if you could provide some sort of measurement of that success in market share and category growth that aligns with the way you guys report your results. So I was wondering. Do you have market share and category growth rates by your GBUs, by the six basic segments, that you can share with us?

BOB MCDONALD: We have -- I'm sorry Jon, go ahead.

JON MOELLER: No, go ahead.

BOB MCDONALD: Alec, we have market share by GBU, and I tried to refer to that earlier, that it's an improving situation across each one of the GBUs. Household Care, for example, has gone from plus 0.6 over the past 12 month to plus 0.8 over the past three months. Health and Well-Being has gone from flat to plus 0.1, flat over the past 12 months to plus 0.1 over the past three months. Beauty and Grooming has gone from flat to positive over the past six months plus 0.1 to about flat now, but they are impacted probably more than the other GBUs by lack of supply. We talked about Fusion ProGlide as an example. So, that's becoming more and more positive, particularly as I look at the numbers by country around the world. So those are the shares by business unit.

JON MOELLER: This is John. I think that you ask a good and fair question. I think that where we can help you and others more in the future is to build in some of the commentary you're suggesting in Teri's segment commentary. There's no reason we can't talk about market sizes and market share in that context. So thanks for raising that as an opportunity, and we will follow-up on it.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, that concludes the question-and-answer session. I would like to turn the conference over to Jon Moeller for closing remarks.

JON MOELLER: I would just reiterate what we've been talking about all morning. In our view, we had a very strong quarter, strong volume and market share momentum, sales growth within our guidance range, albeit at the low end, earnings per share ahead of guidance albeit with some tax help. We continue to feel we are right on track towards delivering 4% to 6% organic growth sales growth on the year, 7% and 9% core earnings per share growth, and 90% or better free cash flow productivity. Thanks for your time this morning.

BOB MCDONALD: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, that concludes today's conference. Thank you for your participation. You may now disconnect and have a great day.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
prgml : The Procter & Gamble Company
   IN
ihair : Hair Care Products | iface : Facial Care Products | iprscp : Personal Care Accessories | i258 : Cosmetics/Toiletries | i2583 : Skin Care Products | icnp : Consumer Products | ipcare : Personal Care Products/Appliances
   NS
e211 : Government Taxation/Revenue | cbrand : Branding | c151 : Earnings | gcon : Consumer Affairs | c11 : Plans/Strategy | ntra : Transcript | c32 : Advertising | c15 : Performance | c31 : Marketing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e21 : Government Finance | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | glife : Living/Lifestyle | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | phlns : Philippines | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | namz : North America | seasiaz : Southeast Asia
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020110210e71r0015r
  


 HD
 Q1  2011  Procter  & Gamble Company Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
10,964 words
   PD
27 October 2010
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©010 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
OPERATOR: Welcome to Procter & Gamble's quarter-end conference call. Today's discussion will include a number of forward-looking statements. If you will refer to P&G's most recent 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K reports, you will see a discussion of factors that could cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from these projections.

As required by Regulation G, P&G needs to make you aware that during the call the Company will make a number of references to non-GAAP and other financial measures. Management believes these measures provide investors valuable information on the underlying growth trends of the business. Organic refers to reported results, excluding the impacts of acquisitions and divestitures and foreign exchange where applicable.

   TD
Free cash flow represents operating cash flow less capital expenditures. Free cash flow productivity is the ratio of free cash flow to net earnings. Core EPS refers to earnings per share from continuing operations, excluding certain items. P&G has posted on its website, www.peg.com, a full reconciliation of non-GAAP and other financial measures.

Now I will turn the call over to P&G's Chief Financial Officer, Jon Moeller. Please proceed.

JON MOELLER, VP & CFO, PROCTER & GAMBLE COMPANY: Thanks and good morning, everyone. Bob McDonald and Teri List join me this morning. I will begin today's call with a summary of our first-quarter results, Teri will cover business highlights by operating segment, and I will conclude the call with guidance for the fiscal year and the December quarter. Bob, Teri and I will take questions after our prepared remarks. Following the call, Teri, John Chevalier and I will be available to provide additional perspective as needed.

Our first-quarter results marked a strong start to the fiscal year. We maintained strong volume momentum. We grew organic sales ahead of market growth, building market share, and exceeded our earnings-per-share growth objectives. Volume increased 8% on an all-in basis and 7% organically, driven by our strong multiyear innovation program and continued marketing investments. This is the first time we have delivered three consecutive quarters of 7% or better organic volume growth in five years. The growth was broad-based with all regions, 16 of our top 17 countries and 20 of our $23 billion brands delivering volume growth versus a year ago.

We are continuing to leverage the innovations we launched last fiscal year such as Pampers Dry Max, Fusion ProGlide, Crest 3D White, and our new Pantene lineup in the US where they were first introduced.

We have also started to expand some of these initiatives to new markets, which create new sources of incremental sales and share growth. We have already expanded Dry Max to more than 50 countries around the world. We have continued the global expansion of our best-in-class Pro Health toothpaste formula, we have launched 3D White in Europe, and ProGlide is scheduled to expand to over 40 countries in the next 18 months.

In addition, we have a full pipeline of new products that we are launching this fiscal year, including Crest Clinical toothpaste, Tide Acti-Lift laundry detergent, Gain Hand Dishwashing Detergent and our upgrade to Downy fabric softeners, all of which started shipping in the September quarter. And we just announced the new Gillette Guard razor launch in India, which is designed and priced to stimulate market conversion from double-edge blades to Gillette shaving systems. The Guard razor is priced at about INR15 or roughly $0.33, and the refill blades are priced at about INR5 or $0.11. In our testing with thousands of Indian men, Gillette Guard was a 6 to 1 winner versus double-edged blades, and it delivered important advantages in areas such as safety, trust and value.

We have also continued to expand our existing portfolio into new markets. In the September quarter, we started the expansion of Febreze air care into Latin America, and we began the launch of the Naturella feminine care brand in Brazil. Organic sales grew 4%, ahead of market growth rates and in line with our expectations. Pricing and mix combined to reduce sales by 3%, which is a sequential improvement of 1 point versus the June quarter.

As expected, pricing was a modest production to sales growth, due mainly to adjustments made in earlier periods which have not yet annualized. Going forward we expect the pricing impact on sales to turn positive as we lap these adjustments.

For perspective, the pricing changes we made to brands such as Duracell, Cheer and the large sizes of Tide will be fully in our base by the end of the December quarter as will many of the structural adjustments we have made in the Central and Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa region.

Mix reduced sales by 2 percentage points, driven primarily by the differential volume growth rates of developed and developing markets. Geographic mix accounted for a point of the 2 point mix impact. In the first quarter, organic volume in developed markets grew 4%, and developing markets grew 12%. Product mix and price tier mix each affected sales growth by about .5 point. All-in sales grew 2%. This includes a 3% negative impact from foreign exchange. The net impact on sales growth from acquisitions and divestitures rounded to a 1 point help for the quarter.

Global market share is up versus prior year on a past six- and three-month basis. Share growth in the quarter was broad-based. We grew share in all geographic regions and held our built share in 13 of our top 17 countries and 17 of our $23 billion brands.

Earnings per share was $1.02, up 5% versus prior year core EPS and $0.01 above the top end of our guidance range of $0.97 to $1.01.

We continue to high investment levels to support our innovation and portfolio moves. Advertising levels remain strong to drive awareness and trial of our new innovations. Consumer impressions were up double digits versus last year.

Gross margin decreased 70 basis points, due mainly to higher commodity costs. Category mix also resulted in lower gross margin as the household care business, which is more cost of goods intensive, grew volume 10% for the quarter compared to 5% growth for the balance of the business. We again delivered significant cost savings, which contributed nearly 150 basis points to gross margin. These savings were across all areas of spending, including materials, manufacturing and logistics. These savings, along with the benefit of volume leverage, largely offset the commodity and mix impacts.

Operating margins declined 10 basis points due to lower gross margin. SG&A spending as a percentage of sales was down 60 basis points. Within SG&A, overhead savings and lower year-on-year foreign exchange transaction costs more than offset a significant increase in marketing spending. The effective tax rate on continuing operations was up 30 basis points versus last year to 28%.

We generated $1.9 billion in free cash flow with free cash flow productivity of 63%. As expected, these levels were impacted by the reversal of the strong marketing payables increase that we saw in the fourth quarter as we accelerated marketing spending behind innovation launches. We continue to expect strong cash generation and free cash flow productivity in more than 90% of net earnings for the year. With this being the case, we continue to return significant levels of cash to shareholders. In the first quarter, we returned $4.4 billion to shareholders, $1.4 billion of dividends and $3 billion in share repurchases.

In summary, we are very pleased with our first-quarter results. It was a solid start to the year. These results provide continued evidence that our overarching growth strategy to touch and improve the lives of more consumers in more parts of the world more completely is working.

Now I will turn the call over to Teri to review highlights of the business segment results.

TERI LIST, SVP & TREASURER, PROCTER & GAMBLE COMPANY: Thanks, Jon. As Jon highlighted, topline growth was broad-based across business segments and geographies. Developing markets continue to lead the growth, which generally results in negative sales mix. You will see that these trends are driving segment and category growth rates.

Starting with beauty, organic sales increased 3% behind 4% organic volume growth. Geographic and category mix reduced sales by 2%. Retail Hair Care unit volume grew in the mid-single digits led by developing markets, which increased double digits. Global value share was up almost .5 point. Head & Shoulders volume increased in the mid-teens, and Pantene shipments increased mid-single digits.

In female skin care, Olay unit volume was up double digits, and value share increased almost .5 point. Shipments of Olay within the Central and Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa region increased over 50% versus prior year, driven by continued geographic and product portfolio expansion.

Female blades and razors had another strong quarter. Venus unit volume was up almost 20% with global value share growth of more than 3 points to 42%. The strong growth is a combination of initiative launches such as the Premium Embrace and Simply Venus disposable razors.

Prestige organic volume declined mid-single digits. Strength in the SK-II business with shipments up over 20% versus year ago was more than offset by weaknesses in fragrances in Western Europe. Salon Professional volume was also down as we continued our efforts to streamline the portfolio.

Grooming segment organic sales were up 6% on volume growth of 5% and positive pricing of 1% mainly on blades and razors. The male blades and razors business grew organic shipment volume mid-single digits. Fusion unit shipments increased by high single digits, and global value share grew by over 2.5 points.

In the US Fusion blades and razors value share increased more than 5 points to over a 35 share behind the continued strength of the Fusion ProGlide initiatives. Global Mach3 shipments were up low single digits as strong growth in developing markets was partially offset by the impact of consumers trading up to Fusion in developed markets. Mach3 volume in China increased over 30% and almost doubled in India with the launch of the more affordable Mach3 razor and commercial initiatives encouraging trade in and trade up.

Male personal care unit volume increased mid-single digits, growing across both the Gillette and Old Spice brands.

Appliances unit volume increased high single digits led by double-digit growth in Western Europe. Braun dry shaving value share grew over 2% globally.

Healthcare organic sales increased 4% on a 6% increase in organic volume. Pricing reduced sales by 2%. Oral Care global shipments increased high single digits. US unit volume increased high single digits behind the Crest 3D White initiative that launched in March and the Crest Clinical line that launched in August. US all-outlet Oral Care value share is up nearly 1.5 points to almost 38%.

Oral Care unit volume increased double digits in developing markets with Latin America up almost 20%. Brazil Oral-B volume grew by a more than 40% behind our Oral-B paste initiatives. Mexico Crest volume grew almost 40%, and value share increased over 2 points behind the Crest Pro Health and Crest Complete initiatives launched in February 2010. In India Oral-B toothbrush unit shipments increased over 50%, driven by the Shiny Clean and CrossAction brush initiatives.

Feminine Care unit volume was up mid-single digits with particular strengths in greater China and the Central and Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa regions, which both grew volume double digits. China volume growth came from a combination of commercial innovation on our Whisper overnight product, growth of Naturella which launched last March, and geographic expansion into additional provinces. Personal healthcare shipments were up low single digits. Developing markets grew midteens. Global growth of Vicks and PUR more than offset declines in Prilosec.

Snacks and Pet Care organic sales declined 9%. Organic volume was down 4%, and pricing declined 2%. Geographic and category mix were a negative 2% impact. Snacks had a strong quarter, shipping high single digits. The growth came from the Xtreme and Multigrain Pringles initiatives in the US and emerging market strength where volume increased over 30%. Pet Care volume was down due to a temporary supply disruption, driven by supply chain restructuring and process improvements and by voluntary product recall impacts. We expect to resume full supply capacity early next calendar year.

The Fabric Care and Home Care segment increased organic sales by 5%. Organic volume grew 9%, led by double-digit growth in developing regions. Mix reduced sales by 2%. Pricing reduced sales by 2%, due mainly to the value corrections in North America, Western Europe and Central and Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa that have not yet annualized. Fabric Care shipments were up high single digits, and value share increased almost have .5 with all regions improving share.

US Downy and Gain laundry detergent both grew shipments double digits. In developing markets Fabric Care shipments increased in the low teens. In Mexico Bold more than doubled. In Brazil Ariel increased more than 50%. In India strong laundry growth continued with total value share up almost 2 points to a 17 share behind the Tide Naturals initiative and the new base Tide restage to Tide Plus, which includes positive pricing.

Home Care had another strong quarter, increasing unit shipments double digits and growing global value share by over a point. North America volume was up in the low teens with double-digit growth across all categories and share increasing 2.5 points. The new Gain hand dish brand, which launched in the US in August, has reached a 5 share in the category as of September. Simultaneously Dawn hand dish has grown almost 3 share points behind improved execution of marketing and in-store fundamentals. US Swiffer volume is up high single digits, and share has increased over a point, driven by go to market executional improvements at the shelf.

Home Care developing markets increased shipments double digits led by the Central and Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa regions with volume up over 30%. The growth was driven by market recovery and geographic expansion such as introducing Fairy dish care in Turkey, Egypt and Morocco and Swiffer in Israel.

Battery shipments increased high single digits for the quarter. Unit volume grew across all regions, and global value share was up over .5 point.

Baby Care and Family Care delivered organic sales growth of 5% and organic volume growth of 10% with developing market shipments up close to 20%. Geographic and product mix reduced sales 3%. Pricing decreased sales 2% behind prior fiscal year value corrections and temporary merchandising spending increases in North America Family Care to support product initiatives.

Baby Care shipments increased high single digits, and global market share was up over 1 point with all regions growing share for the second quarter in a row. Developing markets increased shipments double digits versus year ago with much of this growth driven by distribution expansion in countries such as China where Pampers shipments increased about 30% and Brazil where Pampers shipments increased almost 20%.

Developed markets also had a strong quarter. North America Baby Care value share increased 1 point, and volume was up high single digits. Europe Pampers and Luvs both had strong growth behind solid retailer support. Western Europe value share grew over 1 point, driven primarily by Dry Max and was introduced in the UK, Belgium and the Netherlands in June and expanding into 10 additional countries in the region this quarter. Dry Max, which first launched in North America in March, is currently shipping in over 50 countries around the globe.

Family Care unit volume grew double digits, and value share was up almost .5 point. Charmin volume increased over 20%, and US all-outlet value share grew over 1 point. Growth in the US came from product improvements on softness across the portfolio, supported by strong consumer communication in merchandising programs. Bounty shipments were up mid-single digits behind performance upgrades and the Brand restage focusing on Bounty's clean benefits.

That concludes the segment business review, and I will hand the call back to Jon to discuss guidance for the fiscal year and the December quarter.

JON MOELLER: Thanks, Teri. Our guidance for organic sales and earnings per share growth for the fiscal year is unchanged. Our outlook for organic sales growth remains at 4% to 6%. Where we land within this range will be driven by two factors -- underlying market growth rates and our ability to grow ahead of market rates. Based on the strength of our innovation and marketing plans and our share progress to date, we believe we can continue to grow 1 to 2 percentage points ahead of market growth.

Regarding market growth, our organic sales guidance assumes global market growth 3% to 4% for the fiscal year. This is predicated on developing market growth of 6% to 8% and developed market growth of 1% to 2%. We saw 6% to 8% growth in developing markets in the first quarter. The developed markets were at the low end of the range, up only 1%.

We are updating our guidance for all-in sales growth to 3% to 5%. This range is 1 point higher than prior guidance. We now estimate that foreign exchange will reduce sales by 1% to 2%, and we expect the net impact of acquisitions and divestitures will be a neutral to 1 point addition to all-in sales growth. On the bottom line, we are maintaining our earnings per share guidance range of $3.91 to $4.01, which equals growth of 7% to 9% versus prior year core earnings per share of $3.67.

While we have seen some modest improvement in foreign exchange since the beginning of our fiscal year, we are also seeing as we often do an offsetting increase in commodity costs. We encourage you to consider these countervailing forces as you update your projections for the year just as we do when we provide our guidance.

Also, as we have said on a number of occasions, we provide a guidance range versus a single point estimate for a reason. We will not chase foreign exchange or commodities or back off on investments simply to deliver a top of range number or an external estimate. Our actions will continue to be guided by a desire to advance our strategy and by our overriding objective of creating longer-term value for our shareholders.

As far as share repurchase is concerned, we continue to outlook a range of $6 billion to $8 billion for the year.

Moving to the December quarter, we are estimating organic sales growth in the range of 3% to 5%. We expect all-in sales growth of 2% to 4%. Within this, we expect foreign exchange to reduce sales by about 2%, and the net impact of acquisitions and divestitures to be a 1-point addition to sales growth.

On the bottom-line, earnings per share is estimated in the range of $1.05 to $1.11. This compares to a very strong base period in which core earnings per share was $1.10, up 22% versus the prior year. The base period included very strong gross margin that was aided by favorable commodity costs and marketing spending that was back-half weighted due to initiative launch schedules. In this year's December quarter, we are seeing commodity cost increases, and we are fully invested behind our innovation and portfolio expansion plans.

I mention these dynamics because it is important for our shareholders to understand the core earnings per share growth guidance of down 5% to up 1% should not be interpreted as an absence of savings or a significant step-up in spending. To the contrary, the earnings per share growth rate is mainly a function of the dynamics in the base period.

In closing, as I said earlier, we are very pleased with the start of our fiscal year. Organic volume was up 7% with broad-based growth across our biggest geographies and brands. Organic sales were up 4%, in line with our expectations, and price mix improved sequentially by 1 point. Market share continued to increase on a global basis, and we held our grew share in the large majority of our top countries and brands. Earnings per share was above our expectations, and we continue to fully fund our innovation and marketing programs with our good progress on cost savings.

While we still have more work to do, the solid start of the year is evidence that our purpose-inspired growth strategy is working. We are touching and improving the lives of more consumers in more parts of the world more completely with the continuation of innovations from last fiscal year and a full pipeline of new innovations and geographic expansions. We are better integrating in our plans across categories and geographies to operate more fully as one company, and we're simplifying our operations, reducing costs while increasing our productivity, efficiency and agility.

Now Bob, Teri and I would be happy to take your questions.

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Chris Ferrara, Bank of America.

CHRIS FERRARA, ANALYST, BANK OF AMERICA: I wanted to ask -- I mean obviously there is a lot of focus on topline, but I just wanted to ask about cost savings. So you did 150 basis points to gross margin this quarter. I think about 200 each of the past two quarters. So I mean if this level of savings is sustainable, it obviously has pretty big implications to the competitive dynamic globally, right, not just promo advertising too.

So I guess the question is, how sustainable is the level of savings you are seeing? And then what was the prior run-rate before the last few quarters that you guys have disclosed because it probably was not zero. Maybe it just was not big enough to disclose, but can you just put some context around that and how you would plan to deploy those savings when you think about where advertising is today relative to historical levels?

JON MOELLER: First, let me comment on the overall levels of savings. The 150 basis points savings is a cost of goods number. As you know, our savings program is comprehensive across our various spend areas. We also had about 60 basis points of savings in SG&A. So, in total, over 200 basis points in savings. That level of savings should be sustainable in the near to mid term because of our intentionality of focus in those areas.

And in terms of our desire to -- what are we going to use those savings for? We will continue to use them to successfully execute our strategy, expanding the geographic portfolio, expanding the product portfolio and investing behind that, while delivering the earnings per share growth rates that we talked about both this fiscal year and on an ongoing basis.

OPERATOR: Bill Schmitz, Deutsche Bank.

BILL SCHMITZ, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Can you just talk with maybe a little bit more granularity about how the topline is going to trend as the year progresses? So I know the volume comps are being pretty tough. I know you also said that pricing starts to roll off. So do you envision further price increases? And maybe just sort of like the pieces to organic growth to get to -- it has to be 5% to 6% growth in the back half of the fiscal year?

JON MOELLER: Yes, we will be pricing in two areas. One, where we have a currency devaluation pressure, and we have been executing that relatively successfully. The other is behind our premium innovations whether that is Fusion ProGlide as that expands globally, Crest 3D White as that expands globally. And but if you just take a look at the math if you will, if you take our unit sales rates in the first quarter, our actual rates that we delivered, and you bring those out across the balance of the quarter and index them to prior year unit sales growth rates, you will see that on the math alone we picked up 3 points of growth in price mix. And that is why we continue to be very confident that the price mix gap will narrow. As I mentioned, most of our price reductions will be annualized by the second quarter. So you should begin to see the full benefit of this pickup in Q3.

OPERATOR: Nik Modi, UBS.

NIK MODI, ANALYST, UBS: A quick question on category growth. It was pretty clear that a lot of the promo spending that has been put in the marketplace has not been as effective as a lot of companies I think had hoped and also the retailers had hoped. And Jon, I'm just curious, when you talk about category growth, especially in the developed world, how much do you think of that category slowdown in the developed world has been due to trade spending? And can you just give us some context of how we should think about that over the next 12 months?

JON MOELLER: Well, I can really only contextualize it in the context of our activity and what we are doing. And we are, as we have said many times, while we are fielding promotions to generate trial on our new brand initiatives, promotion is not a significant part of our overall strategy. If you look at the percentage of volume that is moving on promotion in the JES quarter compared to a year ago, in more categories than not that number is down. So, again, I just don't see that being a big part of either our historical strategy or our going forward strategy.

BOB MCDONALD, CHAIRMAN, PRESIDENT & CEO, PROCTER & GAMBLE COMPANY: As we have said repeatedly, our program about touching and improving more lives in more parts of the world more completely is supported by the best innovation program we can remember in decades. And if you look across our results, you can see that that innovation program, as well as the strategy of moving more categories into more geographies and filling out our portfolios up and down, is working. And promotion spending is not a very good antidote to a strong innovation program.

OPERATOR: John Faucher, JPMorgan.

JOHN FAUCHER, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: I want to ask a quick question. You guys talk about profitable market share growth in the press release. I guess as we look at whether it is -- we look at your overall profit growth on a normalized basis adjusting for the divestiture. Profit grew slower than both organic revenues and volumes. So I guess, one, is that just simply a comp issue? And Jon, you talked about how the marketing and spending comps get easier in the back half of the year. But can you also talk about how you view that phrase "profitable market share growth," and will that change as we look at the more inflationary raw material environment going forward?

JON MOELLER: A fair question. As we talk about, first of all, we structure our plans to deliver in the long-term, and we are currently managing an annual plan. And, as we talk about profitable share growth, it is in the context of that annual plan.

The base period dynamics have a very dramatic effect as we said when we first provided guidance for this year and as we have continued to say in this call. So, as we measure ourselves in terms of delivering profitable market share growth, it is really in the context of being on track for the full fiscal year plan, which is earnings-per-share growth, as you know, of 7% to 9%. If people want to pick on unit profitability this quarter, that is fine. I just hope they are prepared to celebrates in the third and fourth quarters.

OPERATOR: Lauren Lieberman, Barclays Capital.

LAUREN LIEBERMAN, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: I'm still trying to recover from that last little bit of excitement. What I was going to ask about, though, is Beauty Care. In particular, I'm just still sort of surprised to hear that Prestige is soft. I know you have specified Western Europe fragrance, but what we are hearing from other Prestige players is actually that things have sort of stabilized. I know last quarter the answer was well, we were not down as much as they were. We should sort of be through that. So my first beauty question is around Prestige.

The second is US market shares in mass. Maybe too early to really gauge success or not, but it does not look like Pantene is really picking up much ground just yet. So if you can talk a little bit about dynamics there, that would be great.

BOB MCDONALD: Let me start first with Pantene. The Pantene initial sales results in the United States are mixed. In the first month of the launch, which was May, Pantene grew value share in the US and in all key retailers. Both distribution and merchandising support were strong with about six straight weeks of record display levels. More recently, though, shares are slightly down versus year ago, over the past three months, down about a point or a 94 index versus year ago as we have seen heavy competitive promotional activity following our introduction merchandising period. We have identified all the key opportunities to get Pantene growing more strongly and are obviously working to improve awareness, trial and feature levels. We will get it going.

JON MOELLER: And in terms of your Fragrance question, as our data would indicate, that the past three months market growth rate for the five big markets we track is about flat versus year ago. The US and Spain continue to contract, a 99 and 96 index respectively, with Germany, Italy and France showing modest growth. Our share in those markets is roughly flat. My guess is that, if other companies are portraying a more positive outlook, it may have to do with their geographic footprint and being more exposed in fragrance for instance than we are to Asia and Latin America.

OPERATOR: Wendy Nicholson, Citi Investment Research.

WENDY NICHOLSON, ANALYST, CITI INVESTMENT RESEARCH: And just thinking about how the quarters are going to flow through the year, obviously you are off to a great start with an upside surprise in the first quarter. But I think what some of us are struggling with is, if volume growth is going to slow sequentially as we go through the course of the year, which obviously it will with tough comps and with the higher commodity prices and it does not sound like you're taking a lot of pricing to offset that, other than the maybe easy comps on the marketing side, to accelerate your core earnings growth through the course of the year sounds like a stretch. It sounds like the cost savings are going to be sustainable, but they are not going to get a lot better. Your volume leverage is probably going to be negative. So, in terms of your confidence in that back half core EPS growth, what is helping you get there and feel so good today?

JON MOELLER: Well, first, relative to commodities, we have much easier comps on those in the back half. You mentioned we have -- and you're absolutely right -- that we have much easier comps on marketing. And I mentioned the math on the price mix dynamic, which will also improve.

I also think that there is -- it is a little bit dangerous to take current volumes and assume that that is on a unit basis the best we can do. On many of our new initiatives, we are actually supply constrained at the moment. And so that is another thing that as we relieve those constraints and as we expand those portfolios globally, we think gives us continued upside on volume.

BOB MCDONALD: There is a tremendous momentum in the business right now. We tried to suggest that with the fact that our organic volume growth is stronger than it has been in five years and that we're growing marketshare in roughly 60% of our category and country combinations around the world, and we laid out for you the innovation program, most of which launched in the April through June quarter, and we are in the process of expanding that throughout the world because most of it launched in the United States. And then on top of that innovation program, we even have newer innovations like Guard in India and others. So you have this layering of volume growth and innovation that I think bodes well for the year and bodes well for continued market share growth.

OPERATOR: Andrew Sawyer, Goldman Sachs.

ANDREW SAWYER, ANALYST, GOLDMANS SACHS: I would like to get a little more color on the SG&A numbers. As you look at it as a percent of sales, it is one of the lowest -- maybe the second lowest quarterly number we have seen in the last six or seven years. Is that just straight productivity, or there is something going on in the timing of ad spend or some of the geographic expansion that is influencing that?

And then I guess secondarily on the margin side, can you talk about how you're thinking about taking list pricing as we see more commodity inflation flow-through, or is that something you're not really evaluating at this point?

JON MOELLER: Well, relative to SG&A, there are two impacts that are affecting the percent [noise] comparison that you reference. The first are the overhead savings, which we continue to be, again, very intentional and focused on.

The other is, as I mentioned in my remarks, is a transaction impact from foreign exchange related primarily to Venezuela where we had a hurt in the base period as we translated Bolivares to dollars in an attempt to manage our balance sheet exposures down ahead of the devaluation. So there both of those that are going on within SG&A. And I want to avoid, frankly, talking about any specifics on future pricing or how we are thinking about covering commodities.

What I will say is what we have said for a long time. And that is that when it's important to take pricing, we endeavor to couple that with innovation and would expect to continue to do that.

BOB MCDONALD: Andrew, we have been working really hard on developing a cost savings program that continues to produce over a sustainable period of time. We have talked before that we want to make this $80 billion company that is growing operate like a $10 billion company. We have been intentional about reducing hierarchy. We have reduced the number of levels from the lowest in the Company to the CEO from seven to five. Our 2010 enrollment decreased by about 5000 versus the prior year to about 127,000 through a combination of productivity improvements and divestitures, and we have improved sales per employee by about 4% in 2010.

We have talked about the fact that we are digitizing the Company from end-to-end, and an example we have cited is that Pampers Dry Max, the new Pampers diaper, a lot of the R&D work that was done on that diaper was done virtually using modeling and simulation rather than bench scale prototyping.

We have moved to more global standard systems. We have cost saved our logistics operation. I could go on and on, and I think we will have time to do that in the December analyst meeting. But this is a pervasive program that is having an impact and will continue to have an impact.

OPERATOR: Joe Altobello, Oppenheimer.

JOE ALTOBELLO, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER: I just want to go back to the promotion issue for a second. Is there a difference in your marketing and promotion strategy between the developed and the developing markets as you roll throughout the balance of 2011? Should we see an abatement in some of your developed markets and maybe an acceleration in the developing world, or is that the wrong way to think about it?

BOB MCDONALD: Our promotion strategies are particular to our brands. So there will not be any difference developing versus developed. In fact, because of the nature of price promotion where it is retailer, country competitive specific, it really is discrete to a brand category, country combination.

OPERATOR: Ed Kelly, Credit Suisse.

ED KELLY, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Could you talk about the changes that you're seeing at Wal-Mart and the impact that it may have on your business? And then the second part of that, are you seeing changes in trend by channel in the US? So a number of retailers have been looking at getting less promotional. Does that change the way you manage your own promotional strategy at retail?

BOB MCDONALD: I was just at Wal-Mart a couple of weeks ago with Bill Simon, and Bill and I and Doug McMillan and others walked stores together. We are very supportive of the changes that Bill is trying to make in US stores.

Our growth in international has been strong. And where we would like to see greater growth is in US stores, and we are working hard to help Bill put merchandise items back into actionality, to put new items up at the front end, to get better conspicuousness of those promotion items throughout the store rather than having everything colored blue and yellow. So we are working real closely with Bill, with Doug, with Mike Duke in order to help Wal-Mart get US sales growing.

Relative to channel shift, we are seeing some channel shift. Again, it depends upon the category, and it depends upon the item, it depends upon the retailer. But I would say that the dollar channel is obviously growing faster than other channels right now. Although, as Jon has said in his remarks, private-label share is flat to down around the world. So that is probably why you are seeing some abatement in promotion spending.

And, of course, from our Company standpoint, we prefer to see lower to no levels of promotion spending because we would like the consumer to see the very best price they can every single day, and we believe that extreme high lows of promotion spending sometimes erode loyalty to a given brand. But having said that, we help the retailer execute their strategy, and they are in charge of pricing, not us.

OPERATOR: [Darrell Mulsanian], Morgan Stanley.

DARRELL MULSANIAN, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Can you give us an update on your rollout in toothpaste with the Oral-B brands? A) how the current markets are performing? And then B) if you plan to extend into additional geographies in 2011, and what kind of pace we should expect in general for a geographic rollout of Oral-B to more markets over the next few years?

BOB MCDONALD: Well, I don't want to give away competitive information, but I can tell you about how we are doing, for example, in Brazil and Mexico in some of the markets.

The expansion of Oral-B paste in Brazil is very encouraging. Shipment share results are ahead of objective. While national pace share is about 3.5 points, it is significantly higher in the outlets where we compete with multiple retailers in double digits. If you look at the outlets where we compete, our value shares are closer to 8%. We are only in about 30% ECV right now, and we are obviously still expanding that in Brazil.

Our recent share is over 23% in drugstores, which was our original test market. So shares are growing sequentially period to period, and trial and repeat rates are also trending above target.

Where we launched Crest and Oral-B Pro Health in Mexico, it continues to deliver ahead of expectations. The national value share is 11.5%, which is up about 3.5 points versus year ago. In modern retail the value share is at 13.4%, up almost 5 points, and P&G continues to be the manual brush leader in Mexico with shares over 47%.

In Benelux, after 19 months, we launched in February 2009. Oral-B Pro Health is well ahead of target, the past three months value share averaging 11.3%, up over 3 points from the previous three months, and Belgium is at 13.1%, up 2 points, Netherlands at 9.4%, up 1 point.

Crest Pro Health launch in China, we launched in August of 2009. It continues to deliver outstanding results. Volume is indexing at 129, and sales is indexing at 132 versus a pretty challenging goal. Even more promising, trial and repeat continued to outperform expectation, as well as outperform key competition.

In addition, we have got solid plans in place to continue to leverage Pro Health in China and to maintain the strong momentum.

In Germany Blend-A-Med paste momentum continues led by the launch of 3D White this summer. Total Blend-A-Med value share continues to grow, reaching 11 in September. That is up 0.6 points versus a year ago. In Poland we launched Blend-A-Med Pro-Expert in April of 2010. This launch enabled us to further extend our leadership in Poland, leading to an all-time high value share of 27.8%. Both Russia and Turkey launched Pro-Expert nationally in July. Shipments are in line with expectation. We don't have share data yet because share in those markets is very limited.

And you did not ask this question specifically, but Crest 3D White is off to a great start in the US with strong retailer support. After six months in market, 3D White paste has already achieved a 5.8% share in tracked channels, which is more than 5 times ahead of Colgate's launch of Pro Clinical over the same time frame. 3D White contributed to Crest's market-leading value share, which is up 1.4 points to 38.6% in the United States over the past three months. 3D White Rinse and 3D White Pulsar Brush are priced at a premium to Pro Health Rinse and base Pulsar respectively. So that is a little bit of a tour of the Oral Care world without disclosing future plans.

JON MOELLER: Then I just would add to that, much like in the broader innovation program where we are leveraging prior launches and we are globalizing those launches, which we are doing in Oral Care as Bob described, we are also bringing a whole lot of new innovation which has not yet affected those market shares. Crest Clinical, the sensitivity lineup, and a number of other very important innovations still coming.

OPERATOR: Connie Maneaty, BMO Capital Markets.

CONNIE MANEATY, ANALYST, BMO CAPITAL MARKETS: I was hoping to get a little bit more clarity also on SG&A. As I recall, the last couple of years had some stranded overhead from the divestitures of Folgers and the Pharma business. Is the change in SG&A right now reflective -- does it reflect the fact that perhaps all that stranded overhead has been dispensed with? And also, what is the outlook for internal restructuring in 2011, and what was it in the last two years?

JON MOELLER: Let me answer the last question first. We have talked about $400 million of restructuring roughly in 2011. That compares to about $495 million the prior year, $700 million the year before that. The reason that those numbers were higher in prior years was largely because we were dealing with the stranded overhead issue that you described.

OPERATOR: Jon Andersen, William Blair.

JON ANDERSEN, ANALYST, WILLIAM BLAIR: Maybe a little more qualitative question. A concern I hear from some investors is really the organization's ability to manage your change program, bulking up in value tiers, expanding in emerging markets, accelerating cost savings through restructuring. What would you say to ease concerns related to execution risk or the organization's capacity to sustain these parallel efforts, some of which represent a shift from your historical approach?

JON MOELLER: It is a good question. We obviously keep track of that very closely. One of the things that our purpose-inspired growth strategy has done is it has allowed us to focus the organization on what really matters. When you talk about touching and improving the lives of more consumers in more parts of the world more completely, it is very discrete, it is very granular, and it focuses everyone in the organization on expanding categories in the countries, expanding vertical portfolios, and expanding into adjacencies, which we may have heretofore not addressed. That focus results in a tremendous simplification. And, in fact, we have an effort going on within the Company to simplify. We are cutting the number of SKUs. We are changing our business planning process. And so far, as you can see from the results, it looks pretty good.

Also, if you -- every year the Procter & Gamble Company runs an employee opinion trend survey. We have done it now for the last 80 years or so. And the survey this year was a record in all measures. We had record response rates. We surveyed more than 110,000 employees worldwide. That is out of 127,000. The overall aggregate scores increased for the second consecutive year, and they are the highest we have experienced over the past five years. The survey content is comprehensive and robust. We measured 20 categories, including consumers -- including employee pride in Company, an evaluation of meaningful work, feedback on employees personal well-being, and the biggest increase from 2009 was seen in confidence in building unit leadership. And a large number of employees feel that there is a clear and inspiring vision for the future.

So I think the program is working. I think employees are telling us it is working, and that is what gives us confidence in the future.

OPERATOR: Jason Gere, RBC Capital Markets.

JASON GERE, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: I was just wondering, you obviously got a nice lift again on the spending. I was just wondering if you can segregate where you are getting better in ROI between the advertising spending and maybe some of the in-store marketing stuff that is in the gross to net, and how you look at deployings in your capital ahead. I know you are talking about some of the promotional stuff coming back, and advertising obviously has had a nice tick up here. But I was just wondering if you could provide some context.

BOB MCDONALD: Our marketing spend is becoming more and more effective. Marc Pritchard, our Global Brand Building Officer, and his organization and our marketing organization largely is getting stronger and stronger at getting a higher ROI out of our effort.

A lot of it is inspired by our purpose. If you think, for example, of our Old Spice brand, Old Spice defines their purpose is to help guys navigate the seas of manhood. And we think about guys' lives in a larger context than just consuming body wash and deodorants, and this is the power of purpose. And when you think of our advertising, "Smell Like a Man Man" with the former football player Isaiah Mustafa, you see how we have taken an idea, an insight. We have turned it into a superior product. We've turned it into a big idea. We've turned it into consumer engagement, and we've turned it into a movement.

The insight is that guys want to smell like a man, and deep down all guys are scared that they don't smell like men. And so what this ad talks about is now you have a product where that insecurity goes away, and you can smell like a man man. And that is why he says, "Look at your man, now look back at me, now look at your man." And it is such an effective advertising campaign that we are getting impressions that we did not pay for. There are nearly 200 videos that have been shot over the last few days by people, different people -- Ellen DeGeneres, Alyssa Milano and others. There is a Twitter campaign that is created because people are starting to ask the Old Spice guy questions. There's YouTube 20 million times. So I mean what we have done is we have created a movement, and that movement has a really high ROI because we are not paying for all these impressions.

I was in Washington DC not too many weeks ago to meet with the President, and I opened up the Washington Post I think it was. There was a political cartoon of President Obama riding a horse backwards asking if he smelled like a man man. It had something to do with Republicans and Democrats. But anyway when people parody your ad, you know that you're getting a high ROI, and that is what we're trying to do on all of our brands.

OPERATOR: Doug Lane, Jefferies & Co.

DOUG LANE, ANALYST, JEFFERIES & CO.: Looking at gross margins, they were down 70 basis points as you mentioned, and they were up 50 basis points in June. So a pretty big sequential shift. Jon, can you go over maybe the top four or five pressure points as regards to input costs and where you see margin trends over the next several quarters?

JON MOELLER: Well, we don't -- I'm not going to get into providing a specific margin guidance. What I will tell you is that, if you look at the base period dynamics on commodities, this was a harder comp than the prior quarter. Next quarter will be even harder comp, but then it should begin to reverse itself.

The other thing that is important to understand within -- you mentioned the gross margin progress last quarter versus a small decrease this quarter. As I mentioned in my remarks, a big part of that has to do with mix as well. With our Household Care business growing volume at 10%, that is a much more -- that is a lower gross margin business. The rest of our business growing volume at 5%. So that is also driving that mix.

Having said that, looking at it on an all-in basis, our Household Care business was a very profitable business. So, from an operating margin standpoint, that is not something that gets us too concerned.

OPERATOR: Bill Chappell, SunTrust.

BILL CHAPPELL, ANALYST, SUNTRUST: Yes Bob, just a big picture question as we look to calendar 2011. What is your outlook on the consumer spending both for developed and developing markets, and maybe how has that changed over the past two or three months? Has it gotten more optimistic, less optimistic or kind of no change?

BOB MCDONALD: The way I look at an economic recovery from a recession is that it is always uneven. You have a couple of months where things look good; you have a month where things drop backwards. My expectation is the global economy will continue to improve, that we will continue to see the kind of growth we have seen in developing markets. We said this quarter market value growth where we compete was plus 8 points, and I think we will also see improvement in developed markets. But I think the improvement in developed markets will be slower and the kind of 1 to 2 points that we forecast is the kind that we will see.

Certainly over the last four to six weeks, there has been negative news in the US economy. But that is not unexpected because, as I said, recoveries are always uneven. The risks moving forward are what happens with the state of government intervention around the world as it pertains to free trade as it pertains to taxing and changing of tax structure of multinational companies. And we are obviously trying to influence where governments around the world come out on those issues.

OPERATOR: Caroline Levy, Calyon Securities.

CAROLINE LEVY, ANALYST, CALYON SECURITIES: I wonder if you could help on the corporate line just to call out how much Venezuela was a year ago, those trends do you think, because that was such a huge improvement on corporate?

And also just an update on what is going on with blades in the US? Because it does not really look as if the blade sales have picked up yet, and I'm wondering if you're expecting that to happen?

JON MOELLER: I will answer the first one, and I will have Bob answer the second one. The rough impact of the Venezuela item is about $300 million [per] in the base period that is not in the current quarter in terms of corporate.

BOB MCDONALD: Talking about blades in the US, the Fusion ProGlide is doing extremely well in the market. Through September Fusion's past three month all outlet value shares of blades and razors was 35%, up 5.5 points versus a year ago, while the Schick share of blades and razors was flat versus year ago at 16.8%.

The sale of replacement cartridges is probably the best indicator of consumer preference in repeat. And sale of P&G's Fusion ProGlide cartridges have been at the rate of more than 3 times the rate of the ProGlide razors, while Schick's replacement cartridges are only selling at about one time the Hydro razor sales. The ProGlide launch is tracking significantly ahead of our awareness trial and repeat goals. In August ProGlide achieves 76% brand awareness, and this is a full 10 points ahead of our forecast and 11 points ahead of the original Fusion launch. So it is going very well.

OPERATOR: Linda Bolton-Weiser, Caris & Company.

LINDA BOLTON-WEISER, ANALYST, CARIS & CO.: I was wondering if you could comment on how competitors internationally are responding as you move your top innovations and brands into some of these markets? Can you just generally comment both how regional competitors and other multinationals are responding?

BOB MCDONALD: Well, I think what we see is the response that generally we expect, which is the initial reaction of most companies who are challenged by a competitive innovation is to initially price down. And then, as they face the reality of the lower profitability, they tend to price back up. And what we are trying to do is innovate and grow market share profitably, and I think the quarter's results suggest we are doing that. But we have not seen anything extraordinary that we did not expect.

OPERATOR: Alice Longley, Buckingham Research.

ALICE LONGLEY, ANALYST, BUCKINGHAM RESEARCH: I just have another question on SG&A. Could you update us it was guidance on what the add ratio for the year should be for fiscal 2011? Should it be flat versus fiscal 2010, up or down? And I'm assuming it is up through maybe the first three quarters and then down in the fourth. Could you elaborate on that, too.

JON MOELLER: Your quarterly expectations are accurate. We would expect for the full fiscal year we would be up a little bit, but significantly ahead in the first three quarters and then, as you said, down in the last quarter. A number of consumer impressions both through our direct spend, and, as Bob described, as our advertising campaigns get picked up more broadly, we expect a number of consumer impressions to continue to be meaningfully ahead of a year ago.

BOB MCDONALD: But even though the total spend will be up, the percent of sales will be roughly the same as it has been historically.

OPERATOR: Ali Dibadj, Sanford Bernstein.

ALI DIBADJ, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: Just a quick housekeeping one and then just a broader question. The housekeeping one relates to your business segment margins being down about 170 basis points, but it being offset by about 185 basis points on a corporate expense line. Just to get a better sense of how that should trend going forward and you mentioned, Jon, Venezuela, is that all on the 185 basis points or is that hit across?

So just a sense of the negative 170 going forward and the plus 185, so perhaps we can join you in celebrating as that flips.

Then the broader question is, if you look at your results not just this quarter but over the past several quarters, there has been a pretty strong correlation called price elasticity, if you will, between average price down and share growth, sales growth and, in fact, some margin degradation from a business segment perspective. Look at Fabric Care, Home Care, Baby Care, Family Care.

I'm trying to understand how do you think that correlation breaks? You clearly have a better outlook in terms of pricing going forward, but then why then do you have so much confidence on the correlation breaking down? Do you expect that the competitive environment changes from here? Do you expect the consumer changes from here? That is kind of the broader question. The housekeeping question would be helpful as well if you can. Thanks.

JON MOELLER: The housekeeping question, we will continue to have that year-to-year health that you're seeing in the corporate line this quarter through next quarter. But then obviously once we get to the annualization of the devaluation, that stops. But what accelerates the business segment margin, and that impact will more than offset the impact that you're seeing in corporate that will go away. And why do we have -- why do we continue to have confidence in that, and what will break the correlation that you have seen thus far?

First of all, the behavior is different. So we have talked about how in the last three quarters we have initiated more price increases than decreases. I talked about how percent volume moving on promotion in North America was decreasing versus year ago.

And then you get into the math again on the base period with the more favorable year-to-year commodity comparison in the back half and a more favorable -- significantly more favorable SG&A comparison behind the advertising comp. But also realize that as this goes on, we are continuing to go back to something that Bob said, we are continuing to simplify. We are continuing to reduce costs, and that momentum builds as the year goes on as well.

OPERATOR: Mark Astrachan, Stifel Nicolaus.

MARK ASTRACHAN, ANALYST, STIFEL NICOLAUS: On the market share initiative, I'm curious how you measure the success of the cited market share increases. Are there specific amounts in each country and region? And then on an overall basis, at what level do you achieve necessary scale to retain that share?

BOB MCDONALD: Well, we measure market share granularly. We look at market share by SKUs so that we know if an innovation is working. We look at it on a brand basis, we look at it on a category basis, and then, of course, we roll it up companywide.

The same is true -- we look at it by retailer; we look at it by a country; we roll up the geographies. For us success is market share growth. Now when I say that, we hold ourselves to a high standard in the sense that a 0.1 increase or a 0.2 increase is basically flat for us, and we force ourselves to make sure that there is statistical significance in the kinds of differences that we look at. So before we do any kind of celebration, it has got to be a statistically significant difference at a high confidence interval. And we look at it obviously on a sequential basis, which helps us understand, is this a real trend or is it not?

JON MOELLER: And to the point, to the question of sustainability and what share levels you have to get to to be sustainable, in general our approach for years has been and will continue to be trying to be the number one or two player in the market, and generally when you achieve that position, it is sustainable.

BOB MCDONALD: I think one of the things that is compelling about this quarter or even the last six months is no matter how you cut the share it is up. So, in other words, the past six months North America is up, Western Europe is up, Central and Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa is up, Latin America is up, Asia is up. The past three months same thing. North America is up, Western Europe is up by higher amounts, meaning the market share growth is accelerating.

So when you see that kind of pervasiveness of share growth you know that your innovation program is working, you know your go-to-market program is working, and that gives us confidence that we can hold those shares and grow them further in the future.

OPERATOR: John San Marco, Janney Montgomery Scott.

JOHN SAN MARCO, ANALYST, JANNEY MONTGOMERY SCOTT: I think I heard at least two references to supply constraints today. Can you talk about your CapEx needs both near and long-term and whether we should expect any change on that front?

JON MOELLER: For the current year, we expect capital spending to be in about the neighborhood of 4% of sales, consistent with what it has been historically. We do have an ambitious capacity program that we have embarked on. We have been doing this for some time. We have become much more efficient in terms of that program, the capital costs per unit if you will, where the cost of capacity has come down almost by half over the last five years.

But we will do what we need to do to make sure that we are able to serve consumers all around the world. That may result in some increase in spending in certain years, but generally we should be pretty close to where we have been historically.

BOB MCDONALD: As Jon said, our cost per unit in capacity has gone down by about half over the last decade, and we are continuing to make strong efforts to improve the productivity of our capital spending.

For example, this is a great example of operating as one company. When you build a new factory, about 50% of the cost is the infrastructure of the factory, and about 50% are the operating lines. And because we are a multi-business unit company, that 50% of the cost and infrastructure gets spread over many more business units as we locate more and more business units in our new factories. So that reduces the capital requirement.

As we have said earlier, we have got about 19 new factories under construction right now. About five are starting up, and about five are on the drawing board. And we expect to continue that kind of pace of capital spending and construction in order to touch and improve lives in more parts of the world more completely.

JON MOELLER: Before we sign off, we would just like to remind everyone that we will be hosting our 2010 Analyst Meeting here in Cincinnati on December 15 and 16. If you have not already received the electronic invitation and would like to attend, please give John or the IR team a call.

Thanks for your time this morning, and have a great day.

OPERATOR: Thank you for joining today's conference. That concludes the presentation. You may now disconnect, and have a great day.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
prgml : The Procter & Gamble Company
   IN
i258 : Cosmetics/Toiletries | icnp : Consumer Products | ipcare : Personal Care Products/Appliances
   NS
cbrand : Branding | cmarkr : Market Research | c151 : Earnings | gcon : Consumer Affairs | gsocc : Soccer | c11 : Plans/Strategy | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | c31 : Marketing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | glife : Living/Lifestyle | gspo : Sports/Recreation | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter | nrgn : Routine General News
   RE
usa : United States | ven : Venezuela | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | lamz : Latin America | namz : North America | samz : South America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020101110e6ar0015y
  


 HD
 Q4  2010  Procter  & Gamble Company Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
14,000 words
   PD
3 August 2010
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©010 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
OPERATOR: Welcome to Procter & Gamble's fourth-quarter and fiscal year-end conference call. Today's discussion will include a number of forward-looking statements. If you will refer to P&G's most recent 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K reports, you will see a discussion of factors that could cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from these projections.

   TD
As required by Regulation G, P&G needs to make you aware that during the call the Company will make a number of references to non-GAAP and other financial measures. Management believes these measures provide investors valuable information on the underlying growth trends of the business. Organic refers to reported results, excluding the impacts of acquisitions and divestitures and foreign exchange where applicable. Adjusted free cash flow represents operating cash flow less capital expenditures and the after-tax impacts of the global pharmaceuticals divestitures. Adjusted free cash flow productivity is the ratio of adjusted free cash flow to net earnings, excluding the gains on divestitures of our Pharmaceuticals business. Core EPS refers to earnings per share from continuing operations, excluding certain items. P&G has posted on its website, www.pg.com, a full reconciliation of non-GAAP and other financial measures.

Now I will turn the call over to P&G's Chief Financial Officer, Jon Moeller. Go ahead, Jon.

JON MOELLER, VP & CFO, PROCTER & GAMBLE: Thanks and good morning, everyone. Bob McDonald and Teri List join me this morning. I will begin today's call with a summary of our fiscal year and fourth-quarter results. Teri List will cover business highlights by operating segment. Bob will then provide his perspective on our progress against our growth strategies and objectives, and I will conclude the call with our outlook for next fiscal year and the September quarter. Bob, Teri and I will have plenty of time for questions after our prepared remarks.

Following the call, Teri, John Chevalier and I will be available to provide additional perspective as needed.

Last year when we provided our initial guidance for fiscal 2010 we shared our choice to invest behind a strong innovation pipeline and our continued commitment to simplification and productivity. The plans we outlined were focused on executing our overarching growth strategy of serving more consumers in more parts of the world more completely with an objective of returning our business to profitable value share growth. Our going in guidance for organic sales was plus 1% to plus 3%, reflecting both the slowdown in global category growth and our commitment to grow market share. Our initial core earnings per share guidance was minus 1% to plus 3%. We have delivered on each of these objectives.

Global value share is up nearly 0.5 point for the past three-month period. We are growing share in businesses representing nearly 60% of sales, and momentum is building sequentially in essentially every region around the world. All regions held or grew share for the first time in 11 quarters. Organic sales grew at 3% at the high end of our going in expectations. Importantly, the volume growth that underpins this accelerated each quarter from a reduction of minus 2% in Q1 to growth of plus 8% in Q4.

In conjunction with our cost and productivity efforts, our topline progress enabled us to exceed our core earnings per share targets. Against our going in objective of minus 1% to plus 3%, core earnings pressure increased plus 6%, including a negative 2 percentage point impact from Venezuela. We delivered record adjusted free cash flow of $14 billion. Adjusted free cash flow productivity was 125%, well above our long-term target of 90% or higher.

In April we increased our quarterly dividend by 9.5%, making this the 120th consecutive year we have paid a dividend and the 54th consecutive year the dividend has increased. In addition to raising the dividend, we increased our share repurchase levels as our year progressed, repurchasing $6 billion of P&G stock.

Consistent with our strategy, we have accelerated the expansion of product portfolios vertically, horizontally and to new geographies and launched significant upgrades on some of our biggest brands. We have considerably strengthened our portfolio, divesting the Pharmaceuticals business, which did not fully leverage our core capabilities and acquiring Ambi Pur and Natura, which do. We are operating more fully as one Company, coordinating and scaling our activities in markets and across categories. Our overarching growth strategy of touching and improving more consumer lives in more parts of the world more completely is working.

Moving to April/June results, organic volume was up 8%, our strongest organic volume growth in almost six years. All six business segments, all five geographic regions, each of our top 17 countries and 19 of our $23 billion delivered organic volume growth in the quarter.

Shipments also increased to 14 of our top 15 global customers.

All-in sales were up 5%, including a 1 point benefit from foreign exchange. The foreign exchange impact and in turn all-in sales were somewhat lower than our guidance, due to the significant strengthening of the dollar since we provided guidance in April.

Organic sales were up 4% within our guidance range. Pricing changes reduced sales by 1 point, consistent with the impact we saw in our third quarter. Mix reduced sales by 3 points.

Geographic mix accounted for about half the total mix impact as shipments in developing markets grew at a 12% rate compared to a 5% rate in developed markets. The balance of the mix was driven by category and price tier mix, about equally split.

EPS for the quarter was $0.71 in the middle of our guidance range of $0.68 to $0.74. As you know, we intensively provide a guidance range versus a single point estimate and did not chase foreign exchange or commodities or back off on investments simply to deliver a top of range number or an external estimate. Our actions are guided by a desire to advance our strategy and by our overriding objective of creating long-term value for shareholders.

During the last quarter, we chose, for example, to make value corrections in a few key markets in the Central and Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa region to reduce price gaps that had widened due to increased competitive activity. We could have waited to make this investment, but we felt it was right to address this issue right away. We chose to increase our investment behind the Pampers Dry Max innovation, and we increased media and merchandising support across several other brands and markets. We made the choice to call a bond, which created higher expense in the quarter, but will lower future financing costs and its value accretive. These and other choices kept us from delivering at or above the high end of our guidance range, but with the right value accretive choices to make.

As we expected, operating margins were noticeably lower than prior year. This was due to higher marketing and support levels behind the launch of important initiatives such as Pampers Dry Max, Fusion ProGlide, Crest 3D White, and the Pantene restage, which drove essentially all of the SG&A increase for the quarter.

The lower operating results were largely offset by a low tax rate, driven by a number of small items. On the year, the effective tax rate for continuing operations was 27.3%, in line with our beginning of year guidance of 27% to 28% and above last year's rate of 25.9%.

As we have indicated in the past, quarterly tax rates can be more volatile as audits are resolved, as reserve balances are adjusted, and as geographic mix changes. Stepping back, we are pleased with our fiscal year results and the trend of the business. Volume growth and market share have accelerated throughout the year, delivering organic sales growth at the high end of our initial expectations. Core earnings per share grew ahead of going in expectations. We had a record cash year and return through dividends and share repurchase over 100% of net earnings from continuing operations to shareholders.

I will now turn the call over to Teri to provide some additional perspective on our quarterly results.

TERI LIST, SVP & TREASURER, PROCTER & GAMBLE: Thanks, Jon. As Jon indicated, overall marketshare growth was positive with all regions flat or growing share for the first time in 11 quarters. Volume growth was also strong across the Company, up 8% organically with developing markets up 12% and developed markets up 5%. This geographic split was the primary driver of the mix effect on sales growth, and you will see how this impacted the business segments as we go through the results.

Starting with Beauty, organic sales increased 5%, driven by 8% organic volume growth. Geographic and category mix reduced sales by 2% as developing markets grew disproportionately at 14%, and retail Hair Care and Skin Care grew faster than the Prestige and Salon Professional categories. Price reductions, mainly in developing regions, impacted sales by 1%.

Retail Hair Care grew unit volumes low teens with share up slightly, led by the North America Pantene re-stage. Pantene North America shipments grew over 30% behind the base brand re-stage, which shipped in May. The launch is off to a good start with Pantene US all-outlet share up more than 0.5 point for the month of June behind strong awareness and trial building merchandising and consumer commercialization programs. Head & Shoulders delivered high teens global volume growth led by our scalp care innovation in Asia and Central and Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa. Female Skin Care grew volume double-digit with positive share trends. In the US Olay all-outlet value share of the facial moisturizer segment was up almost 2 points behind the continued strength of the Olay Pro-X line and the Olay Regenerist Rollerball eye treatment innovation. Olay also had strong results in developing markets, more than doubling shipments in India, Saudi Arabia and the Philippines.

Female blade and razor global shipments were strong in both developed and developing markets with Venus volume up over 25% and global value share up over a point above 53%. US all-outlet share is up over 4 points to almost 51% driven by recent initiative launches, including the introduction of the premium Embrace Disposable razor and the introduction of the Simply Venus razor, the entry level price disposable razor in the Venus lineup.

Professional Hair Care volume was down, reflecting continued market weakness and impacts from our actions to streamline the portfolio.

In Prestige Beauty, unit volume decreased mid-single digits due to initiative timing.

Grooming segment organic sales were up 12% on volume growth of 9%, positive pricing of 2%, and positive mix of 1%. The male blades and razors business delivered double-digit organic volume growth with all regions contributing. Fusion led the growth with shipments up 40% on a global basis, gaining 2 points of global marketshare and continuing to grow share in every quarter since launch in 2006.

In North America Fusion shipments increased over 70% behind the launch of Fusion ProGlide in June. In the second week of launch, ProGlide became the number one razor in the category. In Latin America strong blades and razor shipments were driven by commercial innovation, which included major sporting event advertising and product tie-ins with Mach3 and Prestobarba disposable razors. In India strong customer programs and continued strength of the new and more affordable Mach3 razor increased shipments over 50%.

Male Personal Care unit volume was up mid-single digits. Developing markets were up double-digits. The US male body wash business delivered 45% share in June with both Gillette and Old Spice growing ahead of competition. US Old Spice increased shipments high single digits, and market share grew almost a point to make Old Spice the number one male body wash brand. This growth has been driven by the "Smell Like a Man Man" marketing campaign, which has generated almost 1.2 billion impressions since February 2010 and with the recent Twitter campaign became the number one all time most viewed sponsor channel on YouTube.

Volume in the appliances category was up mid-single-digits, driven by a combination of strong growth in developing markets where shipments increased over 20%, and global strength in the dry shave category, which grew share about 1.5 points.

Moving to Healthcare, organic sales increased 2% on a 5% increase in organic volume. Mix reduced sales by 3%, due mainly to strong volume growth in developing markets where volume was up high single digits with the Central and Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa region up double digits.

Oral Care shipments increased high single digits. Western Europe delivered strong volume growth behind the continued success of Pro-Health toothpaste in Belgium and Holland, as well as on the base Crest and Oral-B franchises.

In the US Oral Care shipments increased behind recent initiatives and share increased almost 1 point. Crest 3D White launched in March and is exceeding internal objectives. The 3D White regimen has reached an 8% value share of the US Oral Care market. In Mexico the Crest brand grew its toothpaste share by nearly 4 points to 12% behind the Pro-Health expansion. Oral-B toothpaste shares in Brazil continued to exceed expectations, growing in all channels in which we compete.

In India Oral-B volume almost doubled behind our toothbrush distribution expansion program and entry point brush innovations. Feminine Care volume grew low single digits, while global share declined slightly, the business grew in Western Europe behind vertical portfolio expansion in the UK and Belgium with the January introduction of mid-tier Always and premium tier Tampax Pearl.

Personal Healthcare shipments increased low single digits as we held marketshare.

Snacks and Pet Care organic sales were up 3% with organic volume up 7%. Geographic and product mix reduced sales by 4%, but was partially offset by 1 point of positive pricing. Snack volume increased high single digits with growth across all regions. Western Europe and Latin America led the growth, increasing market share about a point each behind strong consumer and customer support of World Cup commercial initiatives.

Pet Care volume was up mid-single digits, driven primarily by solid growth in North America behind the Eukanuba and Iams with Prebiotics initiatives.

The Fabric Care and Home Care segment increased organic sales by 1%. Volume grew 7%, led by double-digit growth in developing regions. Geographic and product mix reduced sales by 3%. Value corrections in North America, Western Europe and Central and Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa impacted sales by 3 percentage points. Fabric Care shipments increased mid-single digits for the quarter behind incremental pricing investments. Tide led the category with double-digit growth. US Tide gained over 1.5 points of market share behind strong retailer support. Western Europe also had a strong quarter, increasing share over 1.5 points driven by the Actilift innovation and the Ariel Professional laundry additive launch. Results in Germany were particularly strong and were driven in part by the endorsement of Germany's consumer testing group getting the StiWa seal of approval.

In developing markets, Fabric Care shipments grew high single digits. Much of this volume was delivered in Central and Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa markets where we invested in pricing corrections to reduce gaps versus competition.

Tide in India was also strong, almost doubling shipments for the quarter, driven by Tide Naturals, our value-tier powdered detergent launched in December. Home Care delivered another strong quarter with shipments up high single digits. Home Care increased US share points to over 30%. Febreze US market share grew by more than 4 points with strong growth on the base business as a result of increased brand support and enhanced distribution. Dawn grew US market share by more than 4.5 points and now has over a 46% share of the hand dishwashing category. Western Europe shipments increased double-digits as we added more consumers to the Home Care portfolio through strong consumer-focused initiatives.

Developing market shipments grew close to 20%. Turkey was a strong contributor to this growth with the recent successful launch of Fairy automatic and hand dish care. Battery shipments increased double digits for the quarter. Shipments in share grew across all regions with global marketshare increasing by almost 1 point to 26%.

Baby Care and Family Care delivered organic sales growth of 5% and organic volume growth of 9%. Mix reduced sales by 3%, due mainly to strong growth in developing markets where unit sales grew close to 20% and faster growth of value tiered products. Pricing decreased sales 2% behind value corrections in Russia, Turkey, Saudi Arabia and Japan. Baby Care shipments were up high single digits, and global marketshare increased over 1 point with all regions growing share. Developing markets increased shipments double digits with China delivering over 30% growth behind continued distribution expansion and a launch of a size stretch initiative in January.

The Central and Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa region also delivered strong growth as countries such as Russia, Turkey and Saudi Arabia each increased shipments more than 15%.

Western Europe Pampers unit sales were up mid-singles, driven by the continued success of Pampers Simply Dry and the initial pipeline shipments for the Pampers Dry Max launch. Pampers' share of the Western Europe diaper market continues to grow, up almost 3 points versus year ago to over 56%. While Pampers shipments were relatively flat in North America as retailers adjusted inventory back to normal levels following the March launch of Dry Max, share increased about 1.5 points.

Family Care shipments were up double digits, driven by midteens growth of Charmin and high single digit growth of Bounty. Charmin improvements were delivered through geographic and portfolio expansion. Shipments of Charmin in Latin America increased over 75% as we filled out our presence in the Americas expanding into six countries in Central America. Charmin Basic shipments increased almost 50% through distribution gains and the launch of Basic in Canada. Bounty shipments were up behind the launch of product upgrades, coupled with the brand re-stage to focus on Bounty's clean benefits. Charmin's all-outlet value share of the US toilet tissue category is up more than 1.5 points to almost 29%, and Bounty's share of the US paper towel category is up about 1 point to over 46%.

That concludes the Business segment review, and I will hand the call over to Bob.

BOB MCDONALD, CHAIRMAN, PRESIDENT & CEO, PROCTER & GAMBLE: Thanks, Teri. P&G's purpose to touch and improve lives now and for generations to come is inspiring, and it is tightly and elaborately linked with our financial goals. P&G's purpose informs our strategic choices. It leads us to bigger and better innovation. It drives quality of its execution. It compels us to make a difference in areas like sustainability and social responsibility.

Last year we updated P&G's growth strategy to overtly connect it to our company's purpose. Simply articulated, our overarching growth strategy is to touch and improve the lives of more consumers in more parts of the world more completely. This strategy unleashes creativity, commitment and peak performance in employees. It attracts talent and partners. It builds goodwill with external stakeholders, and it ultimately drives financial returns and results.

We are executing against all three dimensions of this growth strategy in all of our businesses around the world. In fiscal 2010 we reached an additional 200 million consumers, bringing the total we serve to 4.2 billion on track toward our goal of serving 5 billion consumers by 2015.

We increased global average per capita spending on P&G products by over 2%, roughly on pace with our annual goal of 3% per capita spending growth. We increased global household penetration of P&G products by about 2 percentage points to nearly 61%, on track toward our goal of 70% by 2015.

And, as Jon summarized, we delivered organic sales growth, core EPS growth and free cash flow productivity at or above the high end of our initial guidance ranges for the year.

As I told you on the fiscal year-end earnings call last year, we are not going to accept sustained marketshare losses. Last year at this time our global marketshare was down about 0.5 point versus prior year levels. Today our global marketshare is up nearly 0.5 point and is accelerating. Last year we were building market share in businesses accounting for only about 1/3 of our sales. Now we are building share in brands and countries accounting for about 60% of sales, and, as Jon mentioned, global marketshare is up and accelerating.

Innovation has and will continue to be the heart of our success. In fiscal 2010 we invested nearly $2 billion in research and development. We, again, spent about 50% more than our closest competitor and more than most of our competitors combined. This leadership level of investment is multiplied by our open innovation approach with external partners, which leads to an effective investment in innovation that far exceeds the reported spending.

One measure of the strength of our innovation program is the US IRI Pacesetter Report, the annual list of the biggest innovations in our industry as measured by sales. Over the past 15 years, 125 P&G innovations have earned a spot on the top 25 Pacesetters list, more than our sixth largest competitors combined.

Based on this track record, IRI recognized Procter & Gamble as the most innovative manufacturer in the consumer packaged goods industry for the last decade, presenting the company with its Outstanding Achievement in Innovation Award.

We are leveraging innovation to expand our portfolio vertically, horizontally and geographically and to continually improve the efficacy of our existing product portfolio. I will provide just a few examples of how innovation brings our overarching growth strategy to life starting with male grooming.

We continue to grow the Gillette Fusion brand and have now increased marketshare of this premium-priced offering for 18 consecutive quarters. We recently launched Fusion ProGlide. ProGlide offers a significant advancement in shaving performance and comfort. Our consumer testing shows that men prefer ProGlide over Fusion by a wider margin than Fusion was preferred over Mach3. ProGlide cartridges are priced 15% above Fusion. After just two weeks in market, ProGlide has already taken leadership as the number one razor in the United States with an all-outlet value share of 37%.

We recently launched a new mid-tier Mach3 razor specifically designed to better meet the needs of emerging market consumers. As a result, Mach3 shares are at record levels in India, Brazil and Argentina. In India Mach3 razor value share has grown more than 10 points, and almost half of the incremental growth has come from consumers who have traded up from double-edged blades. We continue to innovate at the low end, as well as to ensure all consumer needs are being properly served and to stimulate future systems growth. Gillette Vector, Prestobarba 3, and Mach3 disposables are all performing well and are being expanded to additional markets.

Several important horizontal portfolio expansions of the Gillette brand in the Male Personal Care are also underway. In February we launched a complete line of Gillette male grooming solutions in Brazil. Based on early results, we are now expanding Gillette Male Personal Care products to more countries in Latin America.

In March we introduced a scientific face care regimen under the Gillette name in China. In June we introduced Gillette Fusion Pro Series in North America. Pro Series is an advanced lineup of Male Skin Care products, which fully leverages P&G's skincare technology for the first time ever. After only the first few weeks of launch, Pro Series has an 11 share of the US Male Skin Care category.

Moving to Fabric Care, we're expanding our portfolio vertically with premium innovations such as Excel Gel in Western Europe. Excel Gel is a new to the world gel that gives superior cleaning performance and saves energy because it cleans well in cold water. It allows for control dispensing and is consumer preferred by a margin of two to one. Excel Gel is priced to a 10% premium and continues to perform well with value shares growing in all major Western European markets.

Our newest laundry brand, Sarasa, was introduced in Japan in September and is off to a strong start. Sarasa is priced at a 15% premium versus the category average and is designed for consumers who want a laundry detergent that cleans well but also provides natural and gentle benefits.

We introduced Tide Naturals in India in December quarter and Ace in Colombia in the September quarter. Tide Naturals is priced 30% lower than regular Tide, enabling us to reach a much broader spectrum of Indian households. Ace or Ace is a mid-tier laundry brand, which complements Ariel's stain removal equity and Bold's softness equity. Innovation and expansion of the Ace brand in Latin America have delivered continual growth for many years. In fact, we are pleased to announce that Ace has become P&G's 23rd $1 billion brand.

We grew our Fabric Care portfolio horizontally with Tide stain release and Ariel Professional in laundry additives and Bounce Dryer Bar in the fabric enhancer segment. Both innovations continue to exceed our expectations.

In our lead market of Turkey, Ariel Professional is over a 15 share. In the United States, Tide stain release release shares exceed 10%, and the year one retail sales will be about $80 million, while Bounce Dryer Bar shares are nearly 6%.

Finally, we expanded our portfolio geographically with the introduction of Ariel into Uganda and Senegal during the December quarter. This follows the launches of Ariel into Kenya during the September quarter and is part of our strategy to dramatically increase our presence in East Africa.

We also continue to expand our Oral Care portfolio. We extended our portfolio vertically in several key markets by leveraging our breakthrough and premium priced Pro-Health technology. Crest Pro-Health is off to a strong start in China with initial shipments ahead of our expectations.

The equity benefit we have created is positively impacting other parts of our Oral Care business in China. Blend-A-Med, which uses the Pro-Health formula, was recently launched in Germany and has pushed total Blend-A-Med value shares to nearly 11%.

In Mexico the Pro-Health expansion has helped the Crest brand grow its toothpaste share by nearly full 4 points to 12% of the market. We expanded our Oral Care portfolio horizontally in North America with our launch of Crest 3D White. 3D White is a new premium price regimen comprised of toothpaste, brush, rinse and white strips that work in combination to clean, whiten and protect teeth while providing significant health benefits.

In fact, when these products are used together, consumers can start seeing results after just one day, a powerful claim for beauty-seeking Oral Care consumers.

Finally, we expanded our Oral Care portfolio geographically with the introduction of Oral-B toothpaste in Brazil, Belgium and the Netherlands. In Brazil toothpaste and toothbrush shares continue to exceed expectations. Based on the success of our launch in the Pharmacy channel, we started the nationwide expansion of Oral-B toothpaste in January. The launch in Belgium and Netherlands is also going well with Oral-B toothpaste approaching double-digit shares and driving P&G to overall Oral Care marketshare leadership in both countries.

I've talked previously about 2010 being a year of big innovation, but this is just the beginning of an incredibly strong multiyear innovation program. Many of our recent innovations including Pampers Dry Max, Fusion ProGlide, Crest 3D White, and the Pantene restage just launched in North America between March and June. They will have a much bigger impact on fiscal 2011 than they had on 2010 as we continue to build trial and repurchase in North America and expand them to additional markets.

Dry Max will expand across Western Europe this year. Our Fusion ProGlide plans call for a geographic rollout to over 40 countries over the next two years. The new Pantene formulations will also follow a staged expansion over the next two years, and we will continue to bring new innovations to market.

In Fabric Care we have just launched Tide Actilift in North America. The Actilift technology is designed to deliver deep cleaning of fibers, break up dry stains and provide a whiteness boost. Actilift is rolling out to nearly all of Tide liquid detergent variants.

We are also launching an upgrade to Ultra Downy April Fresh fabric softener. We have improved the formulation to provide an entire week of motion activated freshness. This improvement lets consumers enjoy the clean sheet day experience for a whole week.

We're planning a 33% compaction across all of our powder laundry detergent brands in the US, as well as formula upgrades on Tide and Gain powders. Compaction is beneficial for our customers, for our consumers and for the environment. Customers will realize supply chain efficiencies. They can use this as an opportunity to drive category growth. Consumers will benefit from improved formulas and more convenience with a lighter, smaller carton.

Compaction is also better for the environment, using up to 33% less corrugate, nearly 6000 fewer trucks, and saving about 900,000 gallons of diesel fuel. The compacted laundry powder product will begin shipping in February 2011.

We closed the acquisition of Ambi Pur in early July. This will expand our Air Care footprint from 17 to 84 countries. Oral Care is introducing a new Crest clinical line of products to treat two of the most common Oral Care problems, gingivitis and tooth sensitivity. The Pro-Health Clinical Gum Protection toothpaste is our most advanced formula, clinically proven to help prevent and reverse gingivitis.

Crest clinically sensitivity toothpaste provides the maximum strength available over the counter. Crest Clinical will start shipping in North America later this month.

These are just some of the innovations we will be launching this year. We are supporting our innovation program with strong levels of marketing investment. We delivered a 20% increase in consumer impressions this fiscal year with most of the increase in the second half behind many of the innovations I just described. To invest, we must save. We are strengthening our efforts in this area with a culture that continually simplifies the way we work and increases productivity.

A good example of how we are becoming more productive is the digitization of P&G. We are standardizing, automating and integrating systems and data so we can create a real-time operating and decision-making environment. We want P&G to be the most technologically-enabled company in the world. We project a 20% to 25% reduction in spending areas that benefit from digitization, and we are targeting a sevenfold increase in real-time data availability. By getting the right data to the right decision makers at the right time, we can become increasingly efficient and productive.

We are increasingly operating and competing as one company. Our individual categories, brands, countries and functions are all critical, and each has the unique value to add. But at the total Company level, we can create scale advantages by allocating resources more strategically and efficiently than any individual business can do on its own. The combination of the individual components is greater together as one company than just the sum of the parts, and we are focused on maximizing this total value.

We're working across our businesses and markets to better coordinate the execution of our innovation program and leverage the scale and breadth of our brand portfolio. P&G's sponsorship of the US Olympic team and the 2010 Winter Olympics is a great illustration. Not only did we sponsor 16 team USA athletes with 18 leading brands, but we seized a unique opportunity to sponsor the moms who have dedicated their lives to nurturing their Olympian children.

The US program was both effective and efficient. The proud sponsor of Mom's Campaign generated a record 6 billion consumer impressions for our brands, and the TV ads delivered 30% higher recall by our target consumers. The program helped accelerate share growth and we estimated resulted in nearly $100 million in incremental sales.

Based on the success of the US initiative, we are taking this idea global. Just last week we announced a worldwide partnership agreement with the International Olympic Committee, beginning with the sponsorship of the 2012 Olympic Games in London. As part of this agreement, we are launching our proud sponsor of Mom's Campaign locally. The international reach of the Olympics will expose consumers worldwide to P&G's full lineup of global leadership brands.

As Jon said, we are pleased with the progress we made this last year. We delivered results ahead of our going in expectations in nearly every area, but we still have some significant opportunities for improvement. Our results on some big brands and some big categories have been soft. Downy fabric enhancer's share is several points below where it was two years ago. We are launching innovations and making consumer value corrections that will reverse this trend.

The US Oral-B power toothbrush business has been under pressure for two years due to the economic crisis. As the leader in that segment, it is up to us to get it growing again.

The Salon Professional business has been engaged in a multiyear integration and brand streamlining process. We are near the end of that work, and it is time for that business to start growing again. Battery shares have improved since the consumer value intervention we made in the US in January, but to build long-term value for shareholders, we need to accelerate innovation.

We need to continue our disciplined cost reduction and cash management efforts. We need to take even more costs out because there are still more investments that we want to put in to better serve the world's consumers and keep driving profitable market share growth.

If we can build on our successes, address our shortfalls and implement our purpose-inspired strategy with excellence, we should continue to accelerate growth on both the top and bottom line and create leadership levels of value for our shareholders.

Thank you and now I would like to turn the call back over to Jon.

JON MOELLER: Thanks, Bob. I will close with guidance for the current fiscal year and quarter. We expect fiscal 2011 organic sales growth to accelerate with organic sales up 4% to 6%. This is based on estimates of global market growth in the range of 3% to 4%. Our market growth outlook assumes developed markets continue to grow at about 1% to 2% and developing markets grow at about 6% to 8%.

Included in our guidance is the expectation that mix will continue to have a negative impact on sales growth as developing markets continue to grow 3 to 4 times faster than developed markets.

Also included is an expectation that pricing will be neutral to slightly positive for fiscal 2011. Pricing will likely still be negative in the first half of the year and turn positive in the second half as we annualize many of the strategic investments we made last fall. We are largely on pricing strategy on our key brands and in our key markets, though we continue to monitor our price gaps versus competition. Foreign exchange-related pricing will likely be positive due to Venezuela, and we expect modest changes in promotional spending.

Based on this, we expect all-in sales growth of 2% to 4%. This includes roughly a 3% negative impact from foreign exchange rates and a 1% benefit from the net impact of acquisitions and divestitures. We expect core earnings per share growth to accelerate to plus 7% to 9%. This translates the fiscal year 2011 earnings per share in the range of $3.91 to $4.01 compared to prior year core EPS of $3.67.

This guidance assumes current spot rates for foreign exchange. It also assumes we are able to continue to source sufficient dollars to fully support our operations in Venezuela. We expect to deliver free cash flow productivity of at least 90% and are planning to repurchase between $6 billion and $8 billion of stock in fiscal 2011.

Turning to quarterly guidance, our quarter-to-quarter earnings growth will be heavily influenced by the base period trends, including marketing spending, commodity costs and foreign exchange rates. As a result, first-half earnings per share growth rates will be lower than growth rates in the back half, the opposite of last fiscal year.

For the September quarter, we expect organic sales growth of 3% to 5%, reflecting continued strong volume momentum, partially offset by mix and to a lesser degree pricing. All-in sales are expected to be up 1% to 3%. This includes a 3% negative impact to net sales from foreign exchange and a 1% positive impact from the net of acquisition and divestiture activity. Earnings per share are expected to be in the range of $0.97 to $1.01 per share, in line to up 4% versus prior year core earnings per share of $0.97.

As I mentioned, higher year-on-year marketing spending and commodity costs are two of the main factors affecting core earnings per share growth in the September quarter. Compared to prior year, all-in GAAP EPS of $1.06 earnings per share will be lower by 5% to 8%, reflecting the pharmaceutical divestiture gain in the base period.

In closing, we are pleased with the progress we are making and excited by both the trend of the business and the opportunities that lay ahead of us this year. Bob, Teri and I would now like to open up the call for questions.

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Nik Modi, UBS.

NIK MODI, ANALYST, UBS: Just a quick question, Jon, for you on the gross margins. If you can provide some context on the 50 basis points in terms of cost savings and commodities and operating leverage and negative mix just to see how those all interact with each other, that would be very helpful.

JON MOELLER: Sure. As you know, gross margin was up about 50 basis points. Within that, there's about 200 basis points improvement in savings, which is consistent with what we have been showing in recent quarters. That is -- and there is also volume leverage on top of that savings number. So all-in that benefit was, call it, roughly 300 basis points.

And then offsetting that is the combination of mix and price, which is about 200 basis points, and commodity costs, which are up year-on-year at about 50 basis points. I'm sure I have got one of those numbers not exactly correct, but directionally those are the trends that are affecting the gross margin and allowing us to improve it going this quarter, and I expect further gross margin improvement next fiscal year.

OPERATOR: John Faucher, JPMorgan.

JOHN FAUCHER, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: In looking at the organic revenue growth guidance, you guys put up 4% on a plus 2% comp this year, and you're looking for similar to better growth off of a tougher comp, especially with a weak start to the year in terms of what you have guided for for the first quarter. So I guess it is a two-part question. Is it just simply that price mix or at least the mix going from negative to neutral that drives that acceleration, and can you walk us through the year in terms of the path that is going to get you to that range given the weak start to the year?

JON MOELLER: Sure. Let me try to answer two questions there. One, explain the sequential improvement in organic sales growth rate year-to-year, as well as address your question on the quarterly trends within next fiscal year.

As we've said several times during the call, we are really seeing some pretty strong momentum in our business. Volume we talked about growing sequentially from minus 2% in Q1 to plus 8% in Q4. We are seeing, if you look at share growth trends sequentially 12, six, three, one-month improvements in literally every one of our regions. So that gives us a significant amount of confidence going forward that we are going to continue to grow.

Then, when you layer innovation on top of that, and, as Bob said, most of our big innovations launched at the end of the year, we will be leveraging them for the full year next year. So they would benefit 2011 to an even greater extent than they even benefited 2010. And, as you indicated, we will start annualizing some of the price decreases that we took earlier this the school year, and as well the divergence in growth rates between the developing markets and the developed markets will annualize as well.

If I just give you some perspective there, if you look at the difference between developing market and developed market growth rates, Q1 of last year developing markets grew 1 point faster than developed markets. Q2 it was even. Q3 it was 5 points ahead. Q4 it was 7 points ahead. That is what has driven the increase in the negative mix. That should annualize as we go through next year. So that and the pricing annualization are the primary factors for why organic volume growth will accelerate sequentially quarter on quarter as we go through the year. Hopefully that answers your question, Jon, and obviously we would be happy to provide any more detail after the call.

BOB MCDONALD: Further color on that is the fact that many of our initiatives as we talked about are doing better than we expected and are somewhat capacity constrained. We are adding capacity as we speak. We have got one of our most aggressive ever capacity adding programs going in place. We have roughly 20 plants under construction, five on the drawing board, five getting ready to start up. And we are adding all of that capacity and still keeping our capacity spending at roughly 4% or less of sales. So the growth is good. It is strong, it is accelerating, and we are adding capacity.

OPERATOR: Lauren Lieberman, Barclays Capital.

LAUREN LIEBERMAN, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: I was wondering, Bob, I know in your prepared remarks, you talked a bit about launch activity in Fabric Care. But I think a question in everyone's mind after looking at the results this quarter with the combination of price and mix, but let's just focus on price, so it was significantly negative. What do gross margins look like in that business? What is the outlook for profitability in Fabric Care and overall category dynamics? Or was this the quarter where there are significant pricing adjustments, and here things kind of normalize to what is a more traditional performance to that business?

BOB MCDONALD: We are very bullish on our Fabric Care business. We are the leading company in the world. We have been growing share over an extended period of time. Many competitors have chosen to exit that business. If I step way back, when I joined the Company in 1980, we competed with Unilever and Colgate in the United States. They are no longer in the business, and we are continuing to grow market share. And in that business market, share and margin correlate. So I feel very comfortable with the margins and the increasing margins in that business as we grow market share around the world.

OPERATOR: Bill Schmitz, Deutsche Bank.

BILL SCHMITZ, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: I'm just looking at the EPS guidance for next year, and I think you said there was negative 3% currency and then probably a 2% help in the base period from a lower tax rate. Maybe I am wrong on that number. So it looks like there is a 7% to 9% core EPS growth rate. But if you added those two factors back in, doesn't that mean you're kind of doing 12% to 13% EPS growth rate? I'm wondering what is driving that? And then just your outlook broadly on consumer and if you are seeing pockets of strength anywhere relative to the last six months or so.

JON MOELLER: I will let Bob handle the consumer question, and then I will explain the math on the next fiscal year.

BOB MCDONALD: Well, as we talk, Bill, we are certainly seeing greater strength in developing markets than developed markets. Our organic volume growth in developing markets was 12% above year ago, which is an outstanding result given the global economic recession.

In developed markets, our volume growth was 5%. That was comprised with pretty even growth between North America and Western Europe, both up about 5% and 4% respectively North America Western Europe. In Japan we grew 11%. We talked about some of our new innovations in Japan. So in a market that has been in an economic funk for nearly 20 years, we grew volume 11%.

The developing world, greater China was about double digits. Central and Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa over high double digits. Latin America high single digits and the ASEAN region with Korea high double digits. So the kind of growth we are seeing is obviously with stronger growth in developing markets and developed markets, and where we innovate and we innovate well we are able to grow.

JON MOELLER: And on core EPS, yes, we are guiding to 7% to 9% growth on core EPS. There is an element of an FX headwind which we are overcoming. We are overcoming that through a combination of factors. One, hopefully continued significant volume leverage. Also, as I mentioned in response to Nik, we continue to expect gross margin to improve as savings and productivity offset the impact of higher commodity costs, and remember we spent $1.2 billion the past two years in restructuring costs, and we do that to earn a return. And so those savings as well should enable us to move forward with a program which continues to invest significantly behind our innovation and our strategy while delivering this kind of core EPS progress, despite the small FX and commodity headwinds.

OPERATOR: Chris Ferrara, Bank of America.

CHRIS FERRARA, ANALYST, BANK OF AMERICA: The market growth rate you guys are assuming, the plus 3% to 4%, I think that is in line with what you have traditionally seen. So does your outlook basically assume that we are at normalized growth rates across the globe in your categories?

JON MOELLER: I would say that the market growth centers more closely on 3% than it does 4% just based on what we are seeing today. So it's still slightly below history, which tended more towards 4%. But it is certainly getting better. As we indicated in our prepared remarks, we see growth continuing to be disproportionate developing market-driven with only 1 to 2 points of growth in the developed world, which is lower than we have seen historically.

BOB MCDONALD: And when I answered Bill's question, I was talking about in a sense our volume growth rates by geography. And what I should have also mentioned was it is important to remember that from a value standpoint, North America and Western Europe were basically up 1 point in Q4. So we are obviously growing share in those geographies when we are shipping at 4% and 5%, and the market is only growing up 1%. Japan was down 1%, and obviously with volume growth rate up 11%, we are growing share there.

So our share growth is strong behind our innovation, but the market growth rates, particularly in value terms in developed markets, are virtually flat.

OPERATOR: Wendy Nicholson, Citigroup.

WENDY NICHOLSON, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: My first question is actually just a follow-up, Jon, to something you said. When you walked through the gap between the developed and the developing market organic growth rate over the course of the year, had that been driven by a change in the rate of local market growth, or has that been a change in where you have seen more market share expansion?

And then my actual second question, my own question, is just the fact that the margin expansion -- or the margin contraction, if you will, was so severe in the fourth quarter, I would love to get a feel for actually how much advertising was up in the fourth quarter. Because it strikes me that given how big the June launches were, May/June launches were, did you really spend that much that late in the quarter, and I'm wondering if that absolute number once we see the K advertising as a percentage of sales is actually going to have ticked up all that much?

JON MOELLER: So, first, the follow-up question on the divergence of growth rates in the developing markets and developed market, that is a function of both of the items that you mentioned, which is further divergence of actual market growth rates, as well as a reflection of our portfolio expansion program and, therefore, our share growth in those markets. So it is both.

In terms of advertising, year-on-year advertising spending was up $1 billion. We've talked about how that was back-half loaded. In the fourth quarter, advertising expenditures drove a 400 basis point increase in SG&A, which explains essentially all of the operating margin -- the difference between gross and operating margin. And put simply, we would have been crazy to do anything else. If you look at the strength of the innovation program that was coming to market, we have literally took every resource available to us and put it behind those innovations because we believe so strongly in them.

BOB MCDONALD: And having said what we said about the increased spending in Q4, for the year advertising spending was roughly 10%, 11% of sales, which is historically what we generally do. Of course, that is because we were growing the top line at the same time.

OPERATOR: Joe Altobello, Oppenheimer & Co.

JOE ALTOBELLO, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER & CO.: The first question, in terms of the tailwind you guys got this year from commodities and currencies, could you quantify that and what you are expecting in terms of the headwind from both of those two items in fiscal 2011?

And then secondly, Oral-B in Brazil, you sounded like you expanded the distribution on that pretty significantly in the first-half calendar 2010. Are you now fully distributed on that line?

JON MOELLER: In terms of the commodity and FX benefits that we had last year, which certainly was part of our going in construct in terms of how we were going to fund innovation, we ultimately saw between those items a little less than $1 billion of year-to-year help.

Your question on Oral Care, I will let Bob answer.

BOB MCDONALD: Joe, the Oral Care, Oral-B pace launch in Brazil is going really well. We are near full distribution now. Shipments are ahead of expectation. We continue to see distribution ahead of target after only about one year in market, although remember we just started the full distribution in January. We are growing value share in all channels where we compete, and value shares in certain lead accounts are as high as 10% to 20%. Manual brush shares have grown since the launch. We have retaken and continue to hold share leadership versus Colgate, and we have a 1.6 value share advantage over Colgate.

OPERATOR: Andrew Sawyer, Goldman Sachs.

ANDREW SAWYER, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: I just had a quick one. On the tax rate for next year, you guys are saying it will be in the normal 27%, 28% range. And then quickly on levels of spending into next year, I think in the prepared remarks you said that you expect promo spending to be relatively stable. With ad spending back up towards 11% of sales range, should we also expect pretty stable levels of spending? And if so, I guess the point being that this is -- you have now returned spending levels to a point where you are comfortable that that will continue to drive the volume momentum?

JON MOELLER: In terms of tax rate first, yes, we would expect next year's tax rate to be the same as this year's, which is somewhere between 27% and 28%, excluding any big one-time items.

On advertising, you are right. We will be holding promotion relatively steady year to year. We will be increasing advertising, doing that in line with sales. So the percentage should stay about the same.

BOB MCDONALD: I want to also remind everyone that the quality of the advertising is also important. And, as you look at, for example, "Smell like a Man Man" which won a Grand Prix line at Cannes, when you look at, for example, creating shows like Secrets of the Mountain or The Jensen Project, where we know that advertising that airs in family-friendly programming is more effective than that that does not. When you look at our shift from TV and traditional forms of media to other forms of media, we are not only talking about a spending level, but we're talking about a significantly increased effectiveness of the advertising. All you have to do is look for example at our ad called "You Never Walk Alone," which supported the 2010 Winter Olympics in Vancouver, and generated 6 billion impressions that we did not pay for to see how effective that money is being spent.

JON MOELLER: I will just add one more thing. We continue to work to coordinate activities, innovation and marketing, as was the case with the Olympic campaign across our businesses, and that yields both gains in efficiency, and, as Bob said, gains and effectiveness. So we are very comfortable headed into next year in terms of both the level and the quality of the support that we have against the business.

OPERATOR: Ed Kelly, Credit Suisse.

ED KELLY, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Could you discuss what you are seeing out of Wal-Mart recently? It does not sound like their relationship with vendors have been all that great recently. But there has been plenty of speculation about them pulling back on the aggressive rollbacks or SKUs coming back in the stores or even less of a push to private label. So how has Wal-Mart impacted your business more recently, and do you see any change coming?

BOB MCDONALD: I am very excited about the changes at Wal-Mart. We see Wal-Mart under the leadership of Bill Simon in the US getting back to the traditional way that Wal-Mart has grown their business. We have, as you can imagine, a very strong partnership with Wal-Mart like we want to have with all of our retail customers, as evidenced by our coproduction of the movies, The Jensen Project and Secrets of the Mountain. We know that Bill Simon has the complete trust of the leadership of the Walton family and of the leadership of Wal-Mart, and we see him doing things to make changes to things like project impact and the clean isles to make sure that Wal-Mart gets a topline growth growing and attracts more shoppers. We have a very strong partnership. We are working hard against aggressive growth targets, and we are very excited about and see the changes very positive.

One thing I want to add just to clear up any misconceptions is some of the historically low prices that you have seen from Wal-Mart in tabs and elsewhere have not necessarily been supported by spending by Procter & Gamble. Oftentimes our retail partners decide to invest their own money in merchandising our brands in order to attract traffic. It is a very common procedure in the industry to use leadership brands like ours to attract traffic. But we are very excited about Bill Simon's leadership of US Wal-Mart.

International Wal-Mart is doing extremely well under Doug McMillan, and we are partnering with Doug and his team. And Sam's Club is also doing well under Brian Cornell, and we are partnering very well with Brian and his team.

OPERATOR: Bill Chappell, SunTrust Robinson Humphrey.

BILL CHAPPELL, ANALYST, SUNTRUST ROBINSON HUMPHREY: One housekeeping and then one question. On the housekeeping, can you give us a little more color on the other income line in the quarter?

And then, on the main question, can you talk a little bit about where the advertising was spent, which you stepped up in the quarter? I mean it seems like the men's shaving was the biggest area where we saw a lot of TV support, and I did not know if there were changes or if it was more reactionary to the success of Hydro year to date?

JON MOELLER: On the other income, really the year-to-year change is just a reflection of a difference in the presence of small divestiture gains. We had none of those this quarter, and that is really all the difference.

BOB MCDONALD: On the advertising, basically any of the new brands we launch we raise the level of marketing spending in order to achieve certain awareness and trial objectives. I think perhaps the reason you saw a disproportionate increase in ProGlide is that you are the target audience. So I hope you went out and bought the razor and are using it.

OPERATOR: Jason Gere, RBC Capital Markets.

JASON GERE, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: In context of your outlook for that 1% to 2% category growth in developed markets and the 5% volume, I guess, one, the first question is, really, as you look at that breakdown, the 5%, can you talk about how much of it was really innovation-driven, whether that was pipeline sales, and then how much is really the consumer really getting attracted to lower pricing right now?

And just kind of thinking about the consumer, it just feels like maybe we are not hitting a double-dip recession, but consumers really are fighting back and they want to shop more on deals. So I guess if you can break out between those two aspects and how you see that building over the next couple of quarters, thanks.

BOB MCDONALD: As we said in our remarks, we have had successful growth both on the high-end of our portfolio and in the middle and lower tiers of our portfolio. So we kind of see in developed markets, we see a bifurcation where our new initiatives like ProGlide and others that are premium priced continue to do very well. And I would say they appeal to the people with jobs.

At the same time, we also see and we talked about this in the reduction from our volume growth rate to our sales growth rate, we see a mix effect as consumers without jobs or in challenging positions trade down, and they may trade channels. They may go to a channel where they think they can find a more competitive offer.

And so that trading down is an impact. I, frankly, expect that to continue. And that is why it is important for us to innovate all along our vertical portfolio, both at the high-end, the middle-end and the low-end, and that is why we talked about it so thoroughly in my comments, is that we have got to appeal to all consumers.

I think the economic recovery in the United States will be uneven. I think we are seeing that already. We don't expect a double-dip recession like you don't, but we have got to keep innovating and keep growing at all areas of our vertical portfolio.

OPERATOR: Doug Lane, Jefferies & Co.

DOUG LANE, ANALYST, JEFFERIES & CO.: Just real quickly, not to read too much into four-week Nielsens, but back in June, the Pampers marketshare has dropped about 4 points versus May, and Huggies bumped up about 4 or 5 points as well. It does not seem like that core category bounces around that much. So I wonder if your all channel data showed the same thing and if you could give us some color on what was going on there?

BOB MCDONALD: Well, not to focus on four-week Nielsens data, but you will see a lot of choppiness in that data that is really driven by promotion cycle as much as it is anything. If you look at the last three months and what we are seeing in July, we continue to be very happy with our progress both on a sales and a share basis for Pampers.

DOUG LANE: It just seemed like a four-point sequential change was just bigger than you usually see.

BOB MCDONALD: All outlet was much less than that.

BOB MCDONALD: I'm very excited about our Pampers business. If you look, Pampers Dry Max is the biggest innovation since we launched Pampers. It is now only a very small part of the brand. We are going to be expanding it across the whole brand, and I think some of the changes we have talked about on this call in the retail environment you will see playing out in the marketplace that will strengthen the Pampers brand.

OPERATOR: Connie Maneaty, BMO Capital Markets.

CONNIE MANEATY, ANALYST, BMO CAPITAL MARKETS: Could you talk about the compaction of powder detergents, what is driving that? What is the impetus for it is? It is easy to see compaction in liquids where you take out a lot of water, but what do you take out in the powder? How big is that category? I assume you are leading it.

And then finally, when will we get Excel Gels in the US?

BOB MCDONALD: I have been working on the compaction of powder laundry detergents in the United States since I joined the Company in 1980. Basically in the beginning, we started by taking out fillers. There are certain things in a powder laundry detergent that are required in order to process the product through the manufacturing cycle. And, as we have invented newer and better technologies, we have been able to compact. And, as I said in my prepared remarks, we are planning a 33% compaction, which as well will be a formula upgrade. Meaning we have been able to improve the ingredients in the detergent, which has allowed us to remove some of the process fillers and other things.

This compaction like other compactions benefits everybody. Because it means the product requires less shelf space per load, less transportation costs per load, and, of course, everyone in the supply chain saves money, and the consumer saves based on the space they save at home, and of course, they get a better product. So there is going to be 33% less corragate, 6000 fewer trucks, and we are going to save about 900,000 gallons of diesel fuel. So compaction is always a good thing and something that we want to do. Because it improves life for everyone.

In terms of Excel Gel, Excel Gel is designed for the kinds of washing machines that exist in Europe, which are horizontal access washing machines. We always are working on improving our technology for US machines, but it would require a different formulation in the US. And you can rest assured we are working on that.

Similarly gel as a form is a form of compaction. So it is also good for consumers, good for retailers, and good for us. So stay tuned, please.

OPERATOR: Caroline Levy, Calyon Securities.

CAROLINE LEVY, ANALYST, CALYON SECURITIES: Two quick ones. Could you address Accounts Payable in the cash flow statement? It just looked like that was a huge positive. And also just given how the stock is trading, this was clearly a disappointment, but you sound very bullish on your business. But I would like you, please, just to address where you did feel any disappointment in terms of the margin trends, not brand by brand or anything but on those big businesses? You know, was it in any way disappointing that margins were down over 700 basis points in one area?

JON MOELLER: First, on the Payables, as we mentioned, we significantly accelerated our advertising spending as we went through the year, which resulted in a higher payables balance at the end of the year. You will recall that some of our big innovations were launched in the month of June, which is driving that.

Relative to optimism or pessimism, I'm very optimistic on our business. Our results in fiscal 2010 were ahead of our original expectations. I'm really happy with the trend of the business. Our fourth-quarter unit volume grew 8%, the highest growth rate in nearly six years. Volume grew in every business segment, every region, every key country. We also built marketshare. We are growing marketshare now in about 60% of our business versus half of that a year ago. All regions held or grew share, which is the first time in 11 quarters that happen. We over-delivered our going in fiscal year core EPS growth objectives, and we generated $14 billion in free cash flow, and the Payables line is one of the reasons why. We increased our dividends for the 54th consecutive year and repurchased $6 billion in P&G stock, returning more than 100% of our earnings to shareholders. So I cannot be anything but optimistic realizing that these growth trends will continue.

JON MOELLER: Operating margins by definition are lumpy or choppy by quarter. We expect to have continued operating margin expansion. We expanded operating margins on the full fiscal year basis. We will do that again next year. So we don't really look at it, frankly, on a quarter by quarter basis.

OPERATOR: Jon Andersen, William Blair.

JON ANDERSEN, ANALYST, WILLIAM BLAIR: I just have a quick one on cost savings. Jon, you said earlier you've invested about $1.2 billion in restructuring the last two years. That started to deliver in the neighborhood of 200 basis points of savings the last couple of quarters. Looking ahead, do you have investment plans and expected benefits at those same levels, and can you just provide some color around some of the most important areas of focus within the organization?

JON MOELLER: Well, we will continue to continually restructure our business. We feel it is part of how to do business in this industry. So next year we will continue to invest in restructuring. We are planning about $400 million of investment again next year. Much of that is focused on productivity and simplification initiatives with the objective, as Bob described in his remarks, of creating a faster, more agile operation, and we will continue doing that.

OPERATOR: Ali Dibadj, Sanford Bernstein.

ALI DIBADJ, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: I'm still hearing a lot from investors about a little bit of a lack of confidence in your guidance, particularly in the context that this is the second quarter in a row you have been very optimistic. You've said things are getting better. You have said most things are better than expectation. You are actually showing stacked deceleration in topline growth and are actually barely at the low end of your topline guidance, especially in this quarter where you just spent so much back in advertising.

So when you get down to it, I guess, there are two pieces to it. One is trying to understand more more about the topline and you're guiding to acceleration of organic sales, even though you're going to face tougher organic sales compares. The consumer clearly is not getting any better. Competition is really starting to push back, which may stifle a little bit of your share growth. You are lapping at least in the back half of the year the best innovations in something like 20 years. And then on your bottom line, you are talking about 2% to 4% net sales growth translating to 7% to 9% EPS growth. I guess how do you build confidence in the investor base that you actually are guiding appropriately or in control to put it bluntly given some of what we have seen over the past couple of quarters?

BOB MCDONALD: The first point I would offer is in terms of confidence for next year, it goes back to what Bob was just describing. It's just an incredible momentum that exists across the business that we fully expect to continue, and that is what gives us confidence in the top-line guidance.

From the bottom-line standpoint, I mean, first of all, we over-delivered on a fiscal year basis of our core earnings per share growth last year. So the notion that we are somehow providing irresponsible guidance certainly does not resonate here.

We delivered the quarter right in line with our anticipated guidance range. We would not be providing guidance of 7% to 9% next year if we were not comfortable in it. We are. One way to think about it simply is organic sales growth of 4% to 6%, take a midpoint of 5%, bring that down to the bottom line, add 2 to 3 points of benefit from share repurchase, which we are talking about at $6 billion to $8 billion, and you are home. So I think it should be deliverable.

BOB MCDONALD: The hardest thing to do is to run a business where you are delivering balanced top-line and bottom-line growth and growing marketshare at the same time. I think the fact that we are growing marketshare in 60% of our business and that growth rate is accelerating is proof positive that this business is strong and growing. At the same time, we have the strongest innovation program we ever had, and we are operating more as one company than ever before. And I think you can see the impact of our program in the marketplace.

OPERATOR: Alice Longley, Buckingham Research.

ALICE LONGLEY, ANALYST, BUCKINGHAM RESEARCH: My question is about negative mix in the quarter in the developed markets. That is what was surprising to me given that shipments I thought were heavily weighted to these innovations, which are mainly premium price. And I heard you say, well, a lot of consumers without jobs are trading down. Can you tell us which of your value products, which products they created the negative mix shift in developed markets drove that?

JON MOELLER: There are two things going on. First of all, it is price mix. We have taken -- we made several price corrections in North America on things like batteries, on things like detergents, on things like paper towels earlier in the fiscal year, and those continue to impact until they annualize the price mix line.

We also continue to see significant growth on our, for instance, our basics offering, Bounty Basic, Charmin Basic, and some of the other items that we have tried to make available for consumers who are seeking a better price.

TERI LIST: And now if I can just point out also, for example, retail Hair and Skin grew faster than Salon Professional or Prestige, that has an effect as well.

OPERATOR: Linda Bolton-Weiser, Caris & Company.

LINDA BOLTON-WEISER, ANALYST, CARIS & COMPANY: I was wondering if you could just talk about innovation a little bit more in terms of you have talked about expanding into adjacent categories and representing that is like white space opportunity for you guys. In FY 2010, it seems like Tide Stain Releases was one of the main launches that got you into kind of a new category. Am I forgetting others, and do you expect more of that kind of white space opportunity growth in FY 2011? And did you also say the number of innovations would actually be greater in FY 2011 than FY 2010?

BOB MCDONALD: It depends how you count innovations as to whether or not they are greater. As Jon said, remember that we launched the big innovations this past fiscal year in the fourth quarter. As a result, we only have a few weeks, frankly, of impact so far of things like the new Pantene, Fusion ProGlide and so forth.

So the full-year effect will be next year. So, if you measure in terms of full-year effect, certainly next year's program will be stronger than this year's because of the carryover impact, if nothing else, in addition to the new items we are launching.

The biggest opportunity we have is to get all of our categories into all of our countries around the world. We have about 36 product categories, and we are in all those categories in the United States where we have been for 172 years. But in countries like China where we lead, we are just over a dozen, probably about 16 categories in China.

So we have work to do to adapt those categories for the Chinese market. But that is a huge part of our white space activity. That is why you see us rolling out things like Oral Care around the world. That is why we did the Ambi Pur acquisition. That is why we have rolled out Olay, our leading skin moisturizer, to about 15 new countries in the last year. So we have got a lot of work to do to simply get the categories we are currently in into all markets.

At the same time, we're working to develop new categories such as Swiffer, such as the ones you have mentioned. I cannot give you too much perspective on those since we would rather surprise the competition rather than let you know about them in advance.

JON MOELLER: I would just add to your list of horizontal portfolio expansion and adjacencies. Last year, you mentioned Stain Release. There was also the Bounce Dryer Bar, Gillette Pro Series in several countries, Olay skin care for men in China. I talk next year about expanding Gain into the Dish Care segment, and we talked about Crest 3D White, which has really horizontal expansion into the scene between Beauty and Health. So I don't want you to get the impression that it is a one-trick pony here.

BOB MCDONALD: Crest 3D White is an interesting one because we are in the Beauty business, unlike some of our competitors. To the degree that there are Oral Care consumers who are beauty conscious, we have an opportunity to take her knowledge from Beauty Care and use it in Healthcare in order to meet that increasing need.

OPERATOR: Victoria Collin, Atlantic Equities.

VICTORIA COLLIN, ANALYST, ATLANTIC EQUITIES: I wanted to speak a little bit about the advertising spend. I know you spent a lot on new product support. But with some of the additional spend you put through in the quarter sort of repositioning yourself in categories where you had lost share previously, maybe if you could split that out for me. I wondered also if, at the start of the quarter, it was clear that you were getting a tax benefit, which kind of enabled you to ramp up the advertising spend higher than you would otherwise. Because the way I'm thinking about it in terms of the operating margin, I wonder if you could steer me a little bit into -- Jon, you said that the operating margin, sorry, is going to be up year over year in full-year 2011. But what are the main drivers of that? Are we going to see a negative mix, or will higher average housing spend be a larger sort of pushdown on the operating margin as we look forward?

JON MOELLER: As we compare year on year, you would see a higher level of advertising in Q4. If you remember Q4 a year ago, our top line actually declined. We lost market share, and we said we were not proud of that. In fact, when we announced the earnings, that was where we said we are drawing the line, and we are going to stop losing market share. We are going to grow market share profitably.

So if you indexed our advertising in Q4 versus year ago, you would see a dramatic increase since we cut advertising in Q4 year ago in order to deliver the profit results we delivered. So you would see higher levels of advertising on established brands, and that is the reason we're growing market share on 60% of our business today. We are supporting it with advertising versus a year ago.

JON MOELLER: To your question on the tax rate as the quarter progress, I think you have it almost exactly right. We started to see some benefits as we went through the quarter, both as a result of favorable audit settlements, as a result of geographic mix, and we invested that money in support of growth behind our big initiatives. So that is exactly what occurred.

OPERATOR: Mark Astrachan, Stifel Nicolaus.

MARK ASTRACHAN, ANALYST, STIFEL NICOLAUS: Building on a previous question about cost savings, I'm curious, does the level of reinvestment make you reconsider the thought process behind increasing your cost-saving initiatives?

And then relatedly, could you just give us a refresher on how you make those decisions on what to fund?

JON MOELLER: Well, as Bob said toward the close of his remarks, we need to take more costs out because there is more investment we want to put in to further our purpose, our strategy and our financial objectives. So if anything, the level of intentionality on cost savings continues to increase as we go forward. We do not constrain funding for cost savings to any level. If we have a good project, we will fund it. That is why our restructuring spending varies from year to year, and it is a very fluid process, and we are constantly identifying new opportunities, evaluating them, and if they are smart, funding them.

BOB MCDONALD: I would say we have our strongest cost savings program that we have ever had during my career with Procter & Gamble the last 30 years. I talked about it in my prepared remarks. We are trying to simplify our operation. We are reducing levels from 7% to 5% to the CEO. We are reducing the number of ineffective product initiatives. We are reducing the number of SKUs. We are making ideas that we have larger so that we're spending behind larger ideas. Simplifying the operation all the way down to simplifying the raw materials is a big idea.

The other big idea that we are working on is the digitization of the Company, and I talked about the potential productivity improvement of that. Many of our new products today we design using simulation and modeling versus bench scale kind of prototyping that we did years ago. That gives us a much faster cycle in innovation. It also leads to a much more productive spend. I know we talked about the fact that we spend about $2 billion a year on R&D. But we did not talk about the fact that that $2 billion is much more productive because of our open innovation system with outside partners and also because we are using modeling and simulation and digitization a lot more than ever before.

OPERATOR: John San Marco, Janney Montgomery Scott.

JOHN SAN MARCO, ANALYST, JANNEY MONTGOMERY SCOTT: I get to 50 basis points of market share gains implied in the 4% to 6% organic growth. I guess the first question is, do you thing that is a sustainable rate of market share gain over the long term?

And then in the more immediate term in fiscal 2011, can you characterize the possibility that your planned positive pricing as the year progresses would be at risk if the competition starts to play catch up and expand some of the price gaps that you have invested hard to close in the last couple of years?

BOB MCDONALD: I think the market share progress that we are on is sustainable. I think it is sustainable because of our strong innovation program and our strong go-to-market activity.

Remember, as we bring these innovations to market, at the same time, we are working to increase the distribution of our product. For example, right now we are working with the Chinese government in something called 10,000 Villages where we expand the distribution of our products into rural areas to reach more Chinese consumers and to create economies where economies never existed. And, as we do that, that obviously creates more people to use our products and helps us get to the 5 billion consumers that we have targeted over the next five years -- four years that we now have remaining. That is how we reached the 200 million extra -- more consumers this fiscal year. So we are going to continue that, and I do think the market share gains are sustainable.

JON MOELLER: Thanks, everybody, for participating in our call this morning. We are available the balance of the day and any other time you need us to provide additional perspective and hope you have a good day.

OPERATOR: Thank you for your participation in today's conference. This concludes the presentation. Everyone, have a great day.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
prgml : The Procter & Gamble Company
   IN
iprscp : Personal Care Accessories | i2581 : Soap/Cleaning Products | i2582 : Oral Care Products | i25 : Chemicals | i258 : Cosmetics/Toiletries | icnp : Consumer Products | inondhg : Nondurable Household Products | ipcare : Personal Care Products/Appliances
   NS
cbrand : Branding | goly : Olympics | c11 : Plans/Strategy | ccspon : Corporate Sponsorship | c15 : Performance | c22 : New Products/Services | ntra : Transcript | c151 : Earnings | c32 : Advertising | c31 : Marketing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gspo : Sports/Recreation | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter | nrgn : Routine General News
   RE
usa : United States | lith : Lithuania | belg : Belgium | uk : United Kingdom | baltst : Baltic States | benluxz : Benelux Countries | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | eecz : European Union Countries | eeurz : Central/Eastern Europe | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020100817e683000p3
  


 HD
 Q3  2010  Procter  & Gamble Company Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
11,202 words
   PD
29 April 2010
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©010 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
OPERATOR: Good morning and welcome to Procter & Gamble's third quarter end conference call. Today's discussion will include a number of forward-looking statements. If you will refer to P&G's most recent 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K reports you will see a discussion of factors that could cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from these projections. As required by regulation G, P&G needs to make you aware that during the call the Company will make a number of references to non-GAAP and other financial measures. Management believes these measures provide investors valuable information on the underlying growth trends of the business. Organic refers to reported results excluding the impact of acquisitions and divestitures and foreign exchange, where applicable. Adjusted free cash flow represents operating cash flow less capital expenditures and the after-tax impacts of the global pharmaceuticals divestitures.

   TD
 Adjusted free cash flow productivity is the ratio of free cash flow to net earnings excluding the gains on divestitures of the pharmaceuticals business.

Core EPS refers to earnings per share from continuing operations excluding certain unusual items. P&G has posted on its website, www.PG.com, a full reconciliation of non-GAAP and other financial measures.

Now I will turn the call over to P&G's Chief Financial Officer, Jon Moeller. Please go ahead, Jon.

JON MOELLER, VP AND CFO, PROCTER & GAMBLE COMPANY: Thanks, and good morning, everyone. Bob McDonald and Teri List join me this morning. I will begin today's call with a summary of third-quarter results, Teri will cover business highlights by operating segment. I'll then comment on several topical items before providing guidance at the end of the call. Bob, Teri and I will take questions after our prepared remarks. Following the call, Teri, [Mark Ursig], John Chevalier and I will be available to provide additional perspective as needed.

We had a very strong quarter with organic volume growing 7%, the fastest rate of organic volume growth in 18 quarters. A strong innovation program supported by higher media weights drove volume growth across all regions and five of the six business segments. Organic sales grew 4%. As expected, pricing was down 1% due to the targeted pricing interventions we've previously discussed. Geographic mix, driven by double-digit growth in China, Saudi Arabia, Brazil, India and Turkey, reduced sales by about 1% and accounted for half of the total mix impact.

While we expected emerging market to the growth to rebound, we didn't expect markets like Turkey to recover so sharply with shipments up more than 60% versus year ago. Category and product mix taken together were responsible for the balance of the mix impact. Strong growth of Pampers Simply Dry in Europe, Bounty and Charmin Basic in North America and entry point shaving systems in disposables, coupled with slower growth of our premium prestige fragrance, Salon and Braun businesses, accounted for 1 point of negative mix.

Foreign exchange added 3 points to organic sales, resulting in all-in sales being up 7%. All-in GAAP earnings per share were $0.83, above the high end of our guidance range. This included a one-time non-cash charge of $0.05 per share related to the recently enacted health care legislation. Core earnings per share was up $0.89 -- was $0.89 per share, up 10% versus year ago and $0.07 per share above the high end of the Company's guidance range. The over-delivery was primarily driven by higher than expected gross margin expansion behind strong cost reduction efforts.

Gross margin was up 290 basis points. The single largest contributor was our ongoing productivity and cost reduction initiatives. Lower commodity costs in volume leverage also contributed. Operating margin increased 80 basis points as higher gross margin was partially offset by an increase in SG&A. SG&A increased 210 basis points behind higher marketing spending, which was increased to fully support our strong innovation program. The effective tax rate from continuing operations was 31.3%, up 600 basis points versus year ago. The increase was driven by a low base period that included a number of audit settlements and the impact of the previously mentioned health care legislation.

Adjusted free cash flow was an all-time record at $4.5 billion. Fiscal year to date we generated $11.5 billion of adjusted free cash flow, which is nearly 130% of earnings excluding gains from the global pharmaceutical divestiture. Two weeks ago we increased our quarterly dividend to 9.5% from $0.44 to slightly more than $0.48 per share. This is the 120th consecutive year since we were incorporated as a Company in 1890 that we've paid a dividend and the 54th consecutive year the dividend has been raised. During the past 54 years, P&G's dividends have increase at an average annual compound growth rate of 9.5%.

In addition to raising the dividend we increased our share repurchase activity in the March quarter, repurchasing $2 billion worth of stock. This brings fiscal year to date repurchase levels to $3.4 billion. Based on the strength of our business results and cash performance, we are increasing effective repurchase levels from $5 billion to $6 billion for the full fiscal year.

All in, we are very pleased with our March results. Volume growth was strong as we accelerated our pace of innovation and increased marketing support. Solid top-line results in conjunction with our cost and productivity efforts enabled us to exceed our earnings per share targets. We generated a significant amount of cash, authorized a sizable dividend increase and increased our share repurchase plans.

We are operating more fully as one company, coordinating and scaling our activities in markets and across categories. Our overarching strategy of touching and improving more consumer lives in more parts of the world more completely is working.

At the heart of this strategy is a strong multi-year innovation program. The recently released US IRI Pace Center report for 2009 provides continued confirmation of the strength of our innovation program and its ability to drive growth. IRI recognized Proctor & Gamble as the most innovative manufacturer in the consumer packaged goods industry for the last decade, presenting the Company with the Outstanding Achievement and Innovation Award.

In 2009 Proctor & Gamble launched five of the top 10 most successful new nonfood consumer products as measured by sales in the United States -- Tide Total Care, Gillette Venus Embrace, Bounty Extra Soft, Always Infinity and Secret Flawless. In the past 15 years, 125 P&G innovations have earned a spot on the Top 25 Pacesetters list, more than our six largest competitors combined.

Going forward we will continue to invest behind a strong multi-year innovation program to expand portfolios vertically, horizontally and into geographic white space. We will also continue to upgrade existing product offerings, improving value for consumers.

During last quarter's call I took you through our innovation programs in Baby Care, laundry, oral care and hair care. Today I'll focus on three additional categories -- skin care, feminine care and male grooming.

In female skin care we are expanding our portfolio vertically with innovations at multiple price points. At the premium end of the market, core whitening innovations like Cellumination and Whitening Source [Derma] Definition have helped grow our SK-II business by double digits for four consecutive quarters, now making SK-II the number-one skincare brand in Asia.

The recent introduction of Olay Pro-X in China is solidifying our long-standing position as the number-one skincare brand in China. And launches of Olay Pro-X in Australia and New Zealand are both tracking ahead of expectations.

Earlier in the year we launched Olay Regenerist rollerball, and it is already the number one eye product in the United States. Just last month we started shipping our newest product, Olay Pro-X Professional Firming Treatment kit.

We are also providing consumers with more mid and value tier skincare offerings. In the mid tier, Olay Natural White was recently introduced in India and the ASEAN markets. After only five months, Natural White is now the largest skincare boutique in the region.

In the value tier, Olay Complete, our most affordable skincare boutique, continues to grow behind dedicated trial building activities. We've expanded our skincare portfolio horizontally with the launch of Olay Total Effects Body Wash in Singapore, Malaysia and Thailand, and Olay Total Effects 7-in-1 Anti-Aging Body Wash, our most advanced body wash ever, in the US in February.

Finally, we continued to expand geographically. We've launched Olay into 15 countries over the past year, the same number of countries Olay was launched into over the previous five years. Olay is now marketed in 70 countries around the world. Where we've launched we've continued to grow. In Spain, Olay has overtaken L'Oreal to become the leader in mass skincare just six years since being launched. In India, Olay skincare has achieved a 5% value share after just three years in market, and in Mexico Olay now has a 13% value sure, twice the level of just one year ago.

In feminine care we're also driving both premium and value segments of the market. In January we upgraded the top tier of Always in Western Europe with better absorbing technologies, and in March we launched Tampax Pearl in Spain and in Belgium. In the value tier, we launched Always Simply Fits into the United Kingdom in Belgium, and we expanded our portfolio in India with the launch of Whisper Choice Ultra in February. Shipments to date for Choice Ultra have exceeded expectations, delivering record high Whisper shares of nearly 50%.

We continue to expand Naturella into additional geographies, the most recent of which was China in March. Naturella is priced 30% below top-tier Whisper and 20% above mid-tier whisper. While it's still very early, month one shipments are ahead of going-in expectations.

Across several of the more than 30 markets where Naturella has already been established, we recently improved the products to include deep channels for better fluid handling, improved skin benefits and improved visual signals. This significant set of upgrades began shipping in Mexico in February and Central and Eastern Europe in April.

We are using the same strategic template of expanding our portfolio up and down, horizontally into geographic white space in male grooming. At the top end of our portfolio, we continue to leverage Fusion. Fusion has now grown share for 17 consecutive quarters. On top of that we recently announced the upcoming launch of Gillette Fusion ProGlide, a significant advancement in shaving performance and comfort. Consumers prefer ProGlide over Fusion by a wider margin than Fusion was preferred over Mach3.

In the mid tier we recently a notched a new Mach3 razor which is specifically designed to better meet the needs of emerging market consumers. As a result, Mach3 shares are at record levels in both Argentina and Mexico. In India Mach3 value share has grown more than 10 points, and almost half of the incremental growth has come from consumers who have traded up from double-edged blades.

We continue to innovate at the low end as well to ensure all consumer needs are being properly served and to stimulate systems growth. Gillette Vector, Prestobarba3 and Mach3 disposables are all performing well and are being expanded to additional markets.

Several important horizontal portfolio expansions on the Gillette and Olay brand names into male personal care are also underway. In February we launched a complete line of Gillette male grooming solutions in Brazil. Based on early results we are now expanding the entire product line across the balance of Latin America. In March we introduced a scientific face care regimen under the Gillette name in China. The dermatologist-endorsed regimen includes a specially designed Mach3 razor, a cleanser and a balm. Early shipments are tracking ahead of expectations.

And, just last month we launched Olay's first targeted offering specifically designed for men. Olay Men's Solution, a full line of men's skincare products, was introduced in China and is off to a great start. In Western Europe we just launched a complete line of Gillette skincare products. In North America we are introducing Gillette Fusion Pro series, an advanced lineup of male skincare products, in June. Gillette Fusion Pro series fully leverages P&G's skincare technology for the first time ever and significantly enhances the Gillette ProGlide launch, enabling retail and consumer scale events.

The examples I just provided of skincare, feminine care and male grooming are illustrative of the work we are doing and investments we're making to expand our portfolio vertically, horizontally and geographically in order to serve more consumers in more parts of the world more completely. We are coordinating our innovation activities across categories and markets and are acting more intentionally as one company.

We are scaling commercial activities as well as product innovation. In North America 18 brands helped sponsor the US Winter Olympic and Paralympic teams under a unifying Proctor & Gamble thanks, mom advertising campaign. Other examples of scaled activity which are enabled by the breadth of our brand portfolio include our sustainability-based future friendly program and our ongoing collaboration with Wal-Mart on family-friendly programming, including the recently released family movie, Secrets of the Mountain. These programs, which recognize moms, enable households to make simple changes to save energy, save water and reduce waste and that bring families together, advance our purpose of touching lives and leverage our broad portfolio, turning size into scale and scale into growth.

In summary, a strong, scaled and coordinated innovation program, increased marketing support, tight cost control and continued cash discipline have resulted in another strong quarter. With that, let me turn the call over to Teri.

TERI LIST, SVP AND TREASURER, PROCTER & GAMBLE COMPANY: Starting with the Beauty segment, organic sales increased 2% driven by 4% organic (inaudible) growth. Pricing and geographic mix reduced sales by 2%. Female skincare delivered double-digit organic volume growth, including 20% growth in developing markets. The strong results in developing markets were driven by the expansion of Olay Pro-X in China, Australia and New Zealand and Olay Natural White across Asia. In the US Olay all-outlet value share of the facial moisturizer segment was up nearly 1.5 points to over 45% behind the introduction of the Olay Pro-X Professional Firming Treatment Kit and the Olay Regenerist rollerball eye treatment ovation.

Retail hair care delivered a solid quarter with mid-single digit organic volume growth. Head & Shoulders led the growth with shipments up mid-teens including over 25% growth in China behind our scalp care innovation. In Japan shipments of H&S are nearly double prior-year levels, driven by the scalp moisturizing innovation and marketing campaign.

Pantene shipments were up high-single digits in developing markets behind the expansion of Pantene Nature Fusion and price corrections taken in Turkey and the Arabian Peninsula. In North America Pantene shipments were lower versus prior year as retailers reduced inventories of current products ahead of the base brand restage that will launch later this quarter. The selling of the new Pantene lineup has gone extremely well and the new products will be on shelves in mid June. P&G's all-outlet value share of US retail hair care is approximately 32%, in line with prior-year levels, as [girls and] Herbal Essences offset modest declines on Pantene.

Professional hair care volume was down mid-single digits, due mainly to soft global markets. In the prestige beauty business, volume was up mid-single digits, driven primarily by a weak base period comparison in travel retail in Western Europe. The increases in these areas were partially offset by continued market softness in North America. Prestige fragrance market share is roughly in line with prior year at about 15%.

In prestige skin care, share is up nearly a point to 7% behind strong results of the SK-II Skin Signature innovation and, as Jon mentioned, SK-II is now the number-one prestige skin care brand in Asia.

In the Grooming segment, organic sales were up 4% and volume growth of 5%. The net impact of price increases and negative product and geographic mix reduced sales by 1%. In the male blades and razors business organic volume was up high-single digits with strong growth in both developed and developing markets. Shipments in greater China were up more than 20% behind Gillette Vector, our entry point shaving system. In India the relaunch of our lower-cost Mach3 system continues to deliver strong results with shipments up more than 40% for the brand.

Fusion shipments were up nearly 20% on a global basis, including over 25% growth in Western Europe, CEEMEA and Asia. In North America, both Fusion and Mach3 grew mid-singles behind strong marketing and in-store programs. Gillette all-outlet value share of the US male blades and razors category was up nearly 0.5 points to over 77% with Fusion up 3 points, the 17th consecutive quarter of Fusion share growth.

We are pleased with these strong results leading up to a launch of Fusion ProGlide, our first major upgrade to the Fusion platform, which is scheduled for June. As Jon mentioned, ProGlide is a strong consumer preference winner over the base Fusion product, and we've seen excellent response to our initial consumer awareness building programs around the US.

Volume in the appliances category was up mid-single digits with solid growth of Braun in developing markets in Western Europe against a soft base period caused by the economic crisis. In Western Europe, Braun's share of hair removal appliances was up over 4 points to 42% with strong improvement of both male and female products.

In Health Care, organic sales were up 1% driven by a 5% increase in organic volume. Targeted price adjustments and negative geographic mix lowered sales by 4%.

In oral care shipments increased high-single digits with developing markets up mid-teens and developed markets up mid-singles. In developing markets the Crest brand was up mid-teens in China and over 40% in Mexico behind the launch of Crest Pro-Health toothpaste. The Oral-B brand was up nearly 40% in Brazil behind the second wave of toothpaste expansion, and Oral-B volume was up more than 50% in India on the strength of our toothbrush expansion progress.

Western Europe delivered strong volume growth behind the launch of Pro-Health 2 Benelux, and good results on the base Crest and Oral-B franchises in the UK, Germany and France. P&G's share of the Benelux toothpaste market is up more than 7 points versus prior year, and P&G is now the overall oral care market share leader in Western Europe and in Belgium and Holland.

In the US oral care shipments were up low singles, and we are seeing strong consumer and customer response to our Crest 3-D White and Pro-Health Sensitive Shield innovation that launched during the quarter. Crest has maintained its market leader position in the US toothpaste category with all-outlet value share of 37%.

Feminine care volume grew mid-single digits led by the Naturella brand, which posted mid-teens growth behind the China launch in March. The Always brand also delivered broad-based volume growth with all major regions up mid-single digits or better. Always also continues to see good shipment growth in Western Europe, from the Always Simply Fit innovation. P&G's value share of the Western European feminine care market is in line with prior year at nearly [50]%.

North America and Latin America have delivered solid growth behind increased marketing investment behind always, Tampax and Naturella. In the US the Always brand grew all-outlet value share of feminine pads by nearly a point to 59%, and Tampax increased it share of the US tampon market by 0.5 points to nearly 50%.

Personal Health Care volume was off mid-single digits due mainly to the significant reduction in cold and flu incidences compared to prior year and increased competitive activity on Prilosec OTC.

In the Snacks and Pet Care segment organic sales and volume were down 6%. Snacks volume was lower versus prior year, and the soft post holiday merchandising period in the US was partially offset by solid growth outside the US including mid-teens growth in the CEEMEA region. The business (technical difficulty) to the Pringles Multigrain innovation that launched in the US in February and that will be launched in Europe over the summer.

Pet care volume was off low singles due primarily to market contraction in the premium and super-premium segments. P&G all outlet value share in the US pet care market was down slightly to about 9.5%.

Fabric and Home Care segment organic sales increased 5% and volume grew 10%. Volume in both Home Care and batteries was up double-digits, and fabric care increased high singles.

In Home Care volume growth was broad-based across brands and regions. Febreze shipments were up 30% including very strong growth in North America behind the Home Collections lineup and continued market expansion in Western Europe. Shipments of the Dawn and Fairy dishwashing franchise were up high teens behind strong results of the Dawn Hand renewal initiative in North America and the Fairy Platinum Auto Dish initiative in Western Europe.

Swiffer shipments were up double-digits in North America, driven by strong trial building programs and product improvement on Swiffer Wet Jet. US all-outlet market share is up for all major Home Care brands. Dawn's share of hand dishwashing liquids is up 2 points to 45%. Cascade auto dishwashing share is up 4 points to nearly 66%. Febreze share of the air care market is up 3 points to over 23%, and Swiffer's share of the surface care market is up more than a point to nearly 17%.

The sharp increase in battery shipments was driven mainly by strong consumer and retailer support following the interventions made on the US Duracell business to remain competitive in light of increased promotional activity from low-cost and private-label competitors. Duracell's shipments were up more than 35% for the quarter in the US. The batteries business also delivered double-digit volume growth in Western Europe behind Duracell's renewable personal power innovations.

Fabric Care shipments were also strong, up high-single digits for the quarter. All of P&G's top laundry brands -- Tide, Ariel, Gain, Bold, Dash and Ace -- delivered volume growth of mid-single digits or better. In North America Fabric Care shipments were up high singles behind the Tide Stain Release and Tide with Febreze Sport innovations. Shipments of Gain were up double digits in the US behind strong marketing programs to build both the detergent and fabric enhancer businesses. P&G's all-outlet value share of the US Fabric Care market is in line with prior year levels at 53%.

In Western Europe growth of Ariel and Dash brands were driven by the Actilift detergent innovation and the Ariel Professional Laundry additive launch. P&G's value share of the Western European Fabric Care market is up nearly 2 points to over 28%. Tide shipments in India were up nearly 30% following the launch of Tide Naturals, P&G's first entry into the value tier of the powdered detergent market in India. In the CEEMEA region Ariel's shipments were up nearly 30% and Tide was up double digits as we began to see key markets such as Turkey and Saudi Arabia show signs of recovery from the economic crisis.

Baby and Family Care delivered organic sales growth of 7% and organic volume growth of 10%. Product mix reduced sales by 2% due to a shift toward larger pack sizes and strong growth of value tier products. Shipments for the Baby Care business and the Pampers brand were up double digits with strong growth in both developed and developing markets. Pampers shipments were up double digits in North America behind the launch of Pampers Dry Max, our biggest innovation on Pampers in the last 25 years.

While it's too early to assess the launch, we are very encouraged by the strong trade support for this innovation. Importantly, Pampers already had strong momentum in the US with all-outlet value share up 1 point to 31% prior to the launch of the Dry Max innovation, which hit shelves in mid-March. In Western Europe, Pampers shipments were up mid-singles, driven by the continued success of Pampers Simply Dry. Pampers' share of the Western Europe diaper market remains strong, up about 2.5 points to over 56%.

In developing markets Pampers volume was up mid-teens, led by Asia and the CEEMEA region. We continue to see excellent growth on Pampers in India, and Pampers is now the clear market leader with over 50% share. In CEEMEA we are seeing signs of recovery in markets such as Turkey and Saudi Arabia, which are more than offsetting continued weakness in Russia and Poland. Pampers' value share is up 1 point to 50% in the CEEMEA region.

Family Care shipments were up double digits driven by mid-teens growth of Charmin and high-single-digit growth of Bounty. Both brands benefited from very strong growth of the basic product line and both brands have product innovations launching soon. On Bounty we are in the midst of launching product upgrades across all key elements of the brand, the main Bounty paper towel line, Bounty Basic, Bounty Extra Soft and Bounty Napkins.

On Charmin we have upgrades coming in July in all six key elements of the brand -- Charmin, Ultra Soft, Ultra Strong, Mega Roll, Basic, Sensitive and Fresh Mates. Charmin's all outlet value share of the US toilet tissue category was up 0.5 points to over 28%, and Bounty's share of the US paper towel category is in line with prior year at 46%.

That concludes the business segment review, and I'll hand the call back over to Jon.

JON MOELLER: Before I get to guidance, I want to briefly address a couple of questions we've been receiving.

First, what's happening with trade up and trade down? The answer, as I think you can gather from Teri's business review, is that both continue. Premium innovations increase consumer value through enhanced product performance and continue to perform well. Products like SK-II, Fusion, Ariel Excel Gel, Fairy Platinum and Crest 3-D White are all growing strongly. All five of the P&G products in the 2009 IRI Pacesetter Report I referenced earlier were premium price innovations, succeeding in spite of the worst economic environment in a generation.

On the other hand, there's a meaningful group of price conscious consumers who continue to look for lower prices. These consumers are driving double-digit increases on brands like Gain, Pampers Simply Dry, Naturella, Bounty Basic and Charmin Basic. Our strategy and purpose demand we more intentionally serve both performance and price-focused consumers.

The vast majority of consumers in either group continue to prefer branded products versus private-label. In the US branded products account for 88% of the sales in the categories in which we compete. Private-label market share has sequentially declined for four of the last five months. In Western Europe where private-label is most developed, private-label shares are sequentially declining and have been flat or lower than year-ago levels for three of the last five months.

The second question I want to address relates to margins and is usually framed in the following manner. As P&G expands further into developing markets and innovates across mid- and low-tier segments, will this result in lower prices and margin dilution?

I continue to believe it doesn't have to. As we've said many times, our developing market margins on an after-tax basis are comparable to developed market margins. In some cases they are actually higher. These margins will increase as we build scale in these markets, so accelerated activity in developing markets should in aggregate support or build P&G margins.

As relates to mid- and low-tier entries, higher margins tend to be correlated with vertically tiered portfolios. Fielding a complete portfolio which extends from the premium segment down to the low tier allows us to reach more consumers, build more scale and increase margins. They also allow us more innovation-driven pricing flexibility at the high end.

Let's look at several examples which help illustrate this point. Sales of Bounty Basic, our value tier paper towel, have increased three times over the past three years, while total Bounty margins have increased 300 basis points. Charmin Basic sales have increased four times over the past three years, and after-tax category margins have increased 700 basis points. In India we recently expanded our laundry portfolio with the introduction of a new brand, Tide Naturals. Tide Naturals was initially priced 70% higher than the established value tier. It's functionally superior to other value tier offerings and milder on hands, so Tide Naturals was a way to trade existing value-tier consumers up. With the introduction of Tide Naturals, our profitable and growing laundry business in India now has strong product offerings in the premium, middle and value tiers, and Indian consumers have more choices. By better servicing the needs of India's consumers, P&G's laundry volume in India has grown six times since 2003 and margins are up more than 900 basis points.

Turning now to guidance, we continue to expect fiscal 2010 organic sales growth between 3% and 5%. This is a notable improvement versus the start of the year, when organic sales was projected at 1% to 3%. Foreign exchange, based on current spot rates, should be about flat, resulting in all-in sales of 3% to 5%.

With only one quarter left to report, we are tightening our all-in GAAP earnings per share and our guidance range. We are raising the low end by $0.04 per share, which improves our all-in GAAP earnings projection range to $4.06 to $4.12 per share, inclusive of the $0.05 per share health care impact mentioned earlier. As we've stated on a number of occasions, we believe estimates above the high end of our guidance range are overly aggressive. As we look to manage our investments and maximize long-term shareholder value creation, we won't chase short-term foreign exchange movements, commodity increases on other one-time impacts simply to hit the high end of our guidance range or a consensus number which is above our guidance range.

Core earnings-per-share are expected to be $3.62 to $3.68 per share, up 4% to 6% versus year ago. This is an increase versus our prior guidance of 2% to 5% and is a substantial improvement versus the start of the year, when core earnings per share were expected to be minus 1% to up 3%. Since that time, the strengthening top line and robust cost control and productivity efforts have driven a significant improvement in core earnings per share. Our core earnings per share guidance range has increased by $0.18 per share on the low end and $0.09 per share on the high end, despite incurring an impact of about $0.08 per share related to Venezuela.

Turning to the June quarter, we expect organic sales growth of 4% to 5%. All-in sales inclusive of foreign exchange benefit of about 2 points are expected to be up 6% to 7%. Both core and all-in GAAP earnings per share are expected to be $0.68 to $0.74 per share. We've indicated for some time that the second-half and fourth-quarter earnings in particular will be lower than the first half. There are a number of reasons for this. The biggest driver is incremental marketing investments to support our innovation program, which is back-half loaded and is skewed even more heavily towards the fourth quarter when items like Fusion ProGlide and the Pantene restage are launching.

Second, we expect higher cost of goods sold behind less favorable year-on-year commodity comparisons and one-time initiative launch costs.

Third, while we have moved quickly to address the situation in Venezuela, the impact of the currency devaluation will impact fourth-quarter results. These dynamics have been and continue to be reflected in our guidance numbers.

Regarding fiscal 2011, similar to last year, we're trying to ensure our plans are built on the most up to date, relevant assumptions for foreign exchange, commodities and for market growth. We're also spending time on a disciplined look at investment options, ensuring that we are investing in the right things for the long-term. So, like last year, we have pushed back plan completion closer to the end of our fiscal year. Our plans are targeting continued strength on the top line and sequential improvement on a core basis on the bottom line. We'll provide more specific guidance regarding next fiscal year when our planning process is complete.

In closing, we remain pleased with the progress we're making. Volume growth was strong as we accelerated our pace of innovation and increased marketing support. Solid top-line results in conjunction with our cost and productivity efforts enabled us to exceed our earnings per share targets. We generated a significant amount of cash, authorized a sizable dividend increase and increased our share repurchase plans. We are operating more fully as one Company, coordinating and scaling our activities in markets and across categories. Our overarching growth strategy of improving the lives of more consumers in more parts of the world more completely, is working and will enable us to grow our business sustainably and profitable in the future.

Bob, Terry and I would now like to open up the call to questions.

OPERATOR: (Operator instructions) Lauren Lieberman, Barclays.

LAUREN LIEBERMAN, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: I was hoping you could give a little bit more color on productivity, because the gross margin was obviously a big positive surprise, and you were clear to mention that it was more productivity related than necessarily cost depletion. So if you could just walk through some of the things that are going on there and how we should think about that looking forward?

JON MOELLER: It is both cost savings programs. We have a very strong cost savings program separately from productivity that looks at everything from lower capital costs to lower inventory carrying costs, cheaper and better formulations. It's a very robust program. And then, in addition, as we are in all parts of the Company, we continue to focus on productivity, increasing sales per employee, really, across the board. And that's something that we'll continue to focus on going forward.

BOB MCDONALD, PRESIDENT, CEO, CHAIRMAN, PROCTER & GAMBLE COMPANY: I would also add that our scale efforts are also having an impact of delivering results with greater productivity. For example, we mentioned March was a record month for our volume shipments. That month was supported by our Olympic advertising, our thanks, mom campaign, the first time in the history of the Procter & Gamble Company we've advertised the company in the United States and tied it to our brands. And that's a more productive approach using our scale.

OPERATOR: John Faucher, JP Morgan.

JOHN FAUCHER, ANALYST, JP MORGAN: Jon, following up on your comments about emerging market margins or lower-tiered price margins, two questions on that. The first is, how do these products compare from a penny profit standpoint? So, as you get more of your volume growth from those, do we still need to factor that in? And then the second piece would be, as we look out over the next couple of quarters, how long do you think this negative top-line mix continues? Is it something where you start cycling it when we get to January of next year, or do you think this is something where we need to plan on this for a couple of years for a more aggressive long-term buildout of the portfolio?

JON MOELLER: On the first question, obviously, as you saw, we accelerated volume growth in developing markets this quarter. There is an impact on top line because of lower sales per unit, lower prices per unit. And that does translate, as you rightly suggest, into somewhat lower penny profit on those items versus the case in developed markets. But the margin really isn't that great, number one. And, number two, as I indicated, in some markets we actually have margins that are higher than developed markets and where penny profit is equal or even better.

On the top line, this is a dynamic, frankly, that has been with us for the better part of this decade as our developing markets have grown at a faster rate than the developed markets. It has historically been a drag from a mix standpoint between one and two points per quarter. In more robust economic environments we have been able to offset that as the premium parts of our portfolio, particularly the prestige business, the professional business, the Braun business, were a bit healthier. So going forward it is a dynamic I think you should expect to continue. That doesn't imply, though, that we are going to be negatively mixing for eternity.

I would hesitate to give you a date in terms of when the negative mix would dissipate. As I indicated, we are really in the middle of our planning process and we'll have to work through that. But we'll try to provide clarity to that in the subsequent call.

OPERATOR: Chris Ferrara, Banc of America/Merrill Lynch.

CHRISTOPHER FERRARA, ANALYST, BANC OF AMERICA/MERRILL LYNCH: Not to beat this topic to death more, but it's striking that the gross margin was so strong despite a negative 2 mix and a negative 1 price, and it's been such a hot topic. So I'm just wondering, and I know you said the after-tax margins in D&A are comparable. You guys have been saying that for years. But can you quantify the mix effect to gross margin this quarter and maybe just give a little color on this dynamic? I would have expected it to be at least a reasonably sizable drag with that negative 2 mix.

JON MOELLER: Well, as we've said, the gross margins are a little bit lower in developing markets because of the lower price points. I really don't have in front of me the dimensionalization of the exact impact of that on gross margin for the quarter. You can obviously follow up with us post the call. We'll be happy to provide a perspective on that.

But as we've been saying all along, while there will be elements of our activity system, be it more value tier entries, expansion into developing markets and accelerated growth in those markets, that will have a margin impact, we expect to be able to continue to hold or build margins (technical difficulty).

OPERATOR: William Schmitz, Deutsche Bank.

WILLIAM SCHMITZ, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Can you just tell us what your weighted market share was in the quarter and how that has changed over the last couple, two or three quarters? And then the percentage of your sales where you're gaining market share?

And then the second part of that is, I know [A&P] spending was depressed last year and I know you have a big innovation pipeline. So can you just talk about what you think the A&P spend is going to be up year-over-year in the fourth quarter?

BOB MCDONALD: Let me talk first about our share. Share reports aren't available through March, of course, but we are confident that we grew global value share up about 1% above year ago. All regions have improved sequentially versus quarter two, and all regions but our Central/Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa should be flat or growing share. Our Household Care business, inclusive of Fabric and Home Care and Baby and Family Care, is the strongest. Female Beauty and male grooming is mixed in share with grooming up and beauty slightly down. And Health Care is down slightly, driven largely by Prilosec. Snacks and Pet lost the most value share during the quarter.

Share growth will continue in the fourth quarter, driven by our strong innovation program and, obviously, a lower base period comparison. In terms of A&P spending, as you know,

JON MOELLER: As you know, Bill, we don't provide specific figures on an A&P basis. But I would expect as we release our annual results that the A&P spending as a percentage of sales will be up versus year-ago. And that is behind marketing increases to support the innovation program, as you rightly point out. We're looking at impressions being up over 20% versus year ago. And given the back-half loaded nature of our innovation program, particularly the strength in the fourth quarter, you should assume that that number is even stronger in the fourth quarter.

BOB MCDONALD: If I can just add to what Jon said, because I think it's important that we focus more on the effectiveness of the A&P spending, not just the spending itself, is if you had seen our Secrets of the Mountain movie that we had produced and aired in conjunction with Wal-Mart, it was the number one show for the whole night. 93% of moms liked the movie, 88% thought it was an excellent quantity, 74% rated the commercials favorably, 26% increased the favorability of the brands that were advertised on that show. And in total the purchase intent for our brands indexed 270%.

Research from the Association of National Advertisers indicates that only 23% of moms are happy with the family-oriented programming currently available on television. As the world's largest advertiser we have a responsibility and an obligation to improve the quality of that programming. And as I showed by these numbers, it's in our best interest to do that because it makes our advertising more effective. So try not to just focus on the spending but also focus on the quality of the advertising and the context in which it's aired.

OPERATOR: Wendy Nicholson, Citigroup.

WENDY NICHOLSON, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Could you go back and talk a little bit more about the comment you made that your higher margins are in your vertically tiered markets? I guess my first question is, in a couple of your key emerging markets, where do you stand? For example, in China when we were there it struck us as being a surprisingly premium priced market where that's where the innovations come from and that's how your business mix skews. So my question is, in a China or in a Russia or in a Brazil, do you need to just simply launch more new products at the lower end? Is it going to come from just category diversification? And where do you think you are? There's obviously a lot of press when you launch a Tide Naturals, but it also seems like you are doing stuff at the high end like Oral-B. So I guess I just don't know where you are in that game or how far along you are.

BOB MCDONALD: As we've talked, our growth strategy is to touch and improve more consumer lives in more parts of the world more completely. That requires us to build our portfolios vertically in terms of price tiers and consumer benefits, horizontally in terms of the number of categories in every country and horizontally in terms of adjacent categories. When you are in China, you saw that we are only in more than a dozen categories in China, whereas in the US we are in more than two dozen categories. The per capita spending on P&G products in China is only $3 per head per year. Here in the United States it's over $100.

We have very discrete, very concrete plans to fill out those product categories and to get all categories in all countries over a period of time, metering those investments to make sure we deliver at the top of our peer group in terms of total shareholder return. So very concrete building blocks. We talk about it and we work on it all the time, and we want to satisfy every consumer's need. Just like ours of touching and improving lives, there's no reason we should stop trying to get to every consumer in the world, as long as we can continue to deliver the shareholder returns that we need to deliver to be in the top of our peer group.

JON MOELLER: I would just add that China actually makes the point on vertically tiered portfolios delivering higher margin. I mentioned earlier than in some developing markets we have margins that are higher than developed markets. China is one of those markets. It's one of our most developed developing markets, where we have a good representation across price tiers.

Just one more point on that. If you look at China itself, one of our best developed portfolios in terms of tierings is the Hair Care portfolio. There again, we have higher margins on that business than we have on some of our other businesses, where the tiers aren't as well developed. So I think it's a very good example of exactly the point that we think is relevant.

OPERATOR: Andrew Sawyer, Goldman Sachs.

ANDREW SAWYER, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: I wonder if you could address some of the pricing adjustments that you had targeted in response to private-label. And specifically in US Fabric and US Family Care, have those worked as expected? Are you comfortable with where private-label is today? In any instances did you perhaps take prices down too far? How should we think about pricing in those two specific categories over the next couple of months or the next couple of quarters?

BOB MCDONALD: Andrew, we are happy with the pricing we've taken. As Jon said, the price impact was about 1 point this quarter. A year ago we priced up averagely 5% across the entire Company across all categories. And we're doing what we have to do price-wise to (technical difficulty) price competitive.

Having said that, that's not the focus of our efforts. The focus of our efforts are to touch and improve lives with our innovation program, and generally many of our innovations, as Jon talked about, are premium priced, like Gillette ProGlide, and some are lower-priced, like Tide Naturals in India. So we are just doing what we have to do to continue to win the consumer value equation, and we are attempting to do that through innovation, through the strongest innovation program that we've had in my 30-year career.

OPERATOR: Nik Modi, UBS.

NIK MODI, ANALYST, UBS: So the question for you, Bob, just talking about the Beauty segment, I would say growth rates have been lagging the peers. Can you just give us some perspective -- of course, we understand prestige and professional is still malaise-ing because of the economy. But can you just give us some perspective on what's going on in that business and when you think you can actually regain some share momentum broadly in that business?

BOB MCDONALD: I understand that it appears that some of our competitors' organic sales growth rates in Beauty are rebounding faster than ours. And I want to address that. We are seeing increased interest in our Beauty Care segment. Most of the growth rate differential for this year's March quarter is really explained by weaker base periods for our key competitors. The two-year stacked growth rate is equal to key competitors. In other words, if you take the two-year rate for Procter & Gamble versus the competition, they are roughly the same.

We are also being impacted by the strategic decision to rationalize our professional hair salon portfolio, and you kind of mentioned that, which should enable bigger, more global innovation. An example of this rationalization is the divestiture of Johnson Products to Rustic Canyon at the end of March, and the divestiture of [Wanda] to [SAG Holding] at the end of May. We've got several large initiatives shipping in the June quarter, including the restage of our Pantene lineup. Remember, Jon talked about our Pantene North America results being depressed by destocking in preparation for the relaunch of Pantene, the biggest relaunch and since we relaunched the brand in North America. And we're also introducing things like Gucci for Men in the June quarter. All of that, we expect, will lead to accelerated growth.

OPERATOR: Connie Maneaty, BMO Capital.

CONNIE MANEATY, ANALYST, BMO CAPITAL: I have a question on Venezuela. The $0.08 that you talked about is depressing earnings -- was that for the back half of fiscal '10 or just the March quarter? Also, are you doing business at the parallel or nonessential rate? And any thoughts on the outlook for fiscal '11 in regard to Venezuela?

JON MOELLER: Okay, first question, the $0.08 is the back-half number that splits fairly equally across the two quarters. In terms of whether we are doing business at the official rate versus the parallel rate, we are translating at the official rate, which, as you know now, is much higher than it was. But we are regularly converting dollars -- or Bolivars to dollars to support fairly large dollar-denominated purchase needs, such that we don't typically built up a big balance in Bolivars. And obviously that transaction, some of it is occurring at [-- to BV] rates, but a lot of it is occurring at the unofficial rate and gets reported as such in our financial results.

So, while technically we're reporting at the official rate, in practical terms there's not a lot of difference between what we are reporting and what would be the parallel rate.

I gave up forecasting FX in general long ago, and I gave up forecasting anything about Venezuela much before that. I don't have a good outlook for next year. But in general, as we are able to take pricing, which we are doing now in the market, to offset the foreign exchange impacts, it should actually be a positive development year on year from an earnings per share standpoint.

OPERATOR: Joe Altobello, Oppenheimer.

JOE ALTOBELLO, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER: I just wanted to get back to the advertising spending topic for a second. You mentioned this year, obviously it's up very much from last year. You did have an easy base period. You had a lot of innovation this year. But, you also had roughly $800 million or so of commodity deflation in the cost of goods line that you could reinvest. It's obviously early, but next year my guess is you probably won't have $800 million; in fact, you could have a slight inflation next year.

So, given that $1 billion swing in commodities, how are you guys thinking about advertising next year? Are you going to try to keep it at the same level relative to sales as this year? Secondly, from where you sit now -- again, it's pretty early -- is there any reason to believe you guys wouldn't do core EPS growth next year within that 8% to 12% band that you gave back in February?

BOB MCDONALD: Joe, I'll start. Recall, Jon talked about the number of our new innovations launched in the AMJ quarter. In fact, Gillette ProGlide, if you've seen the teaser advertising this morning, talks about June 6 it's available in your stores. So obviously, the spending to get the awareness and trial of these new items will obviously go over into the next year.

Having said that, we are looking at our advertising versus two years ago and three years ago because last year was really an anomaly for us. And at that rate we'll probably continue to deliver more impressions, probably have a higher spending level. But it won't be to the degree as it would be measured versus year-ago.

I would also caution looking at TV advertising because we're spending more in nontraditional channels. Just take, for an example, the Secrets of the Mountain movie I mentioned. We had advertising on that movie, but we own the movie. We produced the movie. So the kinds of numbers you are going to be reading that might be TV-only or might exclude things like digital might be misleading.

JON MOELLER: I'll just add one point and then I'll get to your question about guidance for next year. Our innovation program that we've been talking about, and I think you've gotten a sense for it, is very robust and is multi-year in nature. And we are very focused on continuing to drive that innovation program in support of our purpose and our strategy. So I don't see any reason that we wouldn't continue advertising holistically, as Bob described, at strong levels.

Relative to the question of whether our earnings-per-share will be within the range that was described that CAGNY, obviously it would be irresponsible for me to comment specifically on that at this point. I'd just reiterate two points we made during the call -- one, that our core earnings per share guidance for this year is now at 4% to 6%. And I described an intention or a desire to deliver better than that next fiscal year.

OPERATOR: Edward Kelly, Credit Suisse.

EDWARD KELLY, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: I was wondering if you could give us a little bit more color on the Frederic Fekkai launch in the US -- pricing, how aggressive you are going to support it, what your expectations are. And then just a follow-up to your trade-down question. Are you seeing any change in the channel shifting that's taken place during the recession, so out of supermarkets into discounters, for instance?

BOB MCDONALD: Ed, relative to Frederic Fekkai, we're very happy with the launch that we've done. We've upgraded the Fekkai product in salons, and it's doing well. And we've taken the classic product into retail in somewhat exclusive distribution or more exclusive distribution, and we are happy with its results as well. So it's off to a good start. It's selling for the pricing we sold it in for, so we're happy with the results so far, albeit early days.

Relative to channel shift, I would say that we are seeing some channel shift to some discounters at the low end. But we're also seeing channel shift at the high end, where people are returning to what you would consider to be higher-priced stores where apparel is starting to sell more, where higher-priced items, more discretionary items are starting to sell more. So there appears to be, just as we were describing the need for a full portfolio, there appears to be consumers shifting, depending upon what end of the economic spectrum they are in and how they have been affected by the recession.

Some of the channel shift we are actually trying to create. Olay Professional selling in a grocery store at about $40-$45 provides better skin effect than a $300-priced item in a department store, and that also is shifting channels. Pantene in the US -- we had a campaign, talked about Pantene being more efficacious than the salon brand that you would get in the salon. And that obviously shifted some channel as well. So channel shift is happening. Some of it is impacted by us, but some of it is also impacted by the economic impact that the individual consumers felt.

OPERATOR: Ali Dibadj, Bernstein.

ALI DIBADJ, ANALYST, BERNSTEIN: I was wondering whether we could talk a little bit about what you do next to strategically. Arguably, the price mix, advertising promo innovation aggression strategy has only really been, I guess, partially working. If you look at your organic sales growth sequentially, it has decelerated or is flat in really every reported segment here, particularly if you look at it on, as you mentioned before, kind of a stacked two-year basis.

So I'm trying to understand why, what maybe is working, what's not working, I guess, given that. And, what are you going to do next? [Particularly is], feel that competition is getting tougher, compares are clearly getting tougher, commodities are increasing, foreign exchange is going to hurt. What are you going to do next to get sequential growth really going here? Do you have to do something, for example, around cost cutting more aggressively internally to then invest more? Are you planning more price promo mix trade-down to adjust consumer value proposition? Really, what's next? Because I think it's partially working, I guess, is my interpretation, given stacked sequential organic growth.

BOB MCDONALD: I would say it's working, and I would say it would be premature to move off of our current strategy. Some of the innovations we've been talking about have just recently started shipping. Some haven't even shipped yet. Gillette ProGlide is an example. You've also seen new and different behavior from Procter & Gamble. You've seen advertising the company behind the Olympics. We talked about Secrets of the Mountain and the effectiveness of that and advertising our brands. You see future friendly in the marketplace today supporting our brands. You're seeing a stronger innovation program than ever before. It all seems to be working. We don't measure ourselves quarter to quarter -- I mean, in an individual quarter. We obviously look over the longer term. But things seem to be working.

We spend over $2 billion in R&D a year. We've spent over $2 billion this decade on consumer knowledge. And the five strengths that have made this Company the strong company that it is -- like innovation, like consumer knowledge, like go-to-market capability, like global scale, like branding -- those are going to be the strengths that drive us forward. Jon, do you have any comment?

JON MOELLER: I have just one comment. As I look at our quarter, I kind of wish every quarter was like this -- sales growth, organic sales growth two points ahead of the market, core earnings per share up 10%, record cash quarter. If that's not working, I'm not quite sure what is.

BOB MCDONALD: Remember, our goal is to build market share profitably, and we are now doing that. So by our standards this was a good quarter and we're going to continue following the same strategies.

OPERATOR: Doug Lane, Jefferies & Co.

DOUG LANE, ANALYST, JEFFERIES & CO.: A question on the gross margins. You've delivered 300 basis points or so of gross margin pretty much each quarter so far this fiscal year. Do you expect more of the same in the June quarter, or is some of this cost commodity inflation going to start to hit? Or is that more of a 2011 thing? And maybe, Jon, if you could at least give some color onto where you think gross margins are heading into 2011?

JON MOELLER: As I indicated, as I discussed the fourth quarter, the gross margin benefit that we've been receiving will subside in the fourth quarter. The commodity cost comparison gets less favorable, and that's built into the guidance that we've provided. And I really apologize, but I really don't want to comment at this point on next year's plans until we have next year's plans.

OPERATOR: Alice Longley, Buckingham Research.

ALICE LONGLEY, ANALYST, BUCKINGHAM RESEARCH: Could you tell us how fast your categories collectively grew in the quarter, in volume and value terms, in three regions -- the US, Europe and developing markets? And then as part of that, I think somebody just said that your sales grew 2 points faster than the market, and I thought earlier you said that your shares were up about 1 point. So if you could clarify that?

BOB MCDONALD: Developing markets were up mid- to high-singles, and developed markets were up roughly a point in terms of value. North America, Western Europe in terms of value were up about a point, Japan was down about a point, and that gives you developed at up about a point. Developing was up about 7 points in terms of value, and it was a pretty tight shot group with some markets up about 4 and others up as much as 12 in value.

So we said the market value growth for the quarter was roughly 2.5 points.

JON MOELLER: On the math, what Bob was referring to is market share. What I was referencing is net sales. Net sales was -- organic sales was up about 4%, markets were up about 2.5%. About 1 point of that is share, and 1 point is base period dynamics.

OPERATOR: Bill Chappell, SunTrust.

BILL CHAPPELL, ANALYST, SUNTRUST: Quick question on the battery side -- did you say that shipments are up 35%? And along that line, trying to understand for battery and other categories, you upped the pack sizes and Energizer and Rayovac immediately followed. So it seems like it's a zero-sum game. What's the strategy in terms of being more aggressive? How do you really retain share?

BOB MCDONALD: We did say that, Bill, and while we did include more cells in the packs, that was a reaction to some pricing we faced in the marketplace, and there was no intention to make that a permanent package. Nevertheless, the dynamic that has changed in the marketplace most recently is some of our retail partners have chosen to [de-prioritize] the battery category about a year ago. And we now have worked with those retail partners to help them understand how much sales they've lost, and they have decided to put new priority on the battery category. And some of that new priority is what you're seeing and part of the volume growth this quarter.

I suspect that will continue. Particularly as we approach the holiday season, I think battery's will continue to be a very important category for our retail partners, and we will continue to work to grow market share.

OPERATOR: Linda Bolton-Weiser, Caris.

LINDA BOLTON-WEISER, ANALYST, CARIS & COMPANY: I just had a question on bigger picture strategy, specific to health care. [AG] had always talked about Proctor being personal care and health care, personal care and health care. That was what he really emphasize. And in health care you've gotten rid of the RX business, and in the OTC, the real action is the RX to OTC switches, especially in the allergy drug area. So how are you going to be able to exploit that growth opportunity when you've got companies like Sanofi-Aventis who bought Chatham so they could do Allegra on their own by excluding you as a partner? Can you just talk about it a little more, health care?

And also, what drove the negative 3% mix in health care in the quarter?

BOB MCDONALD: Well, health care is strategically important to us. We do want to grow our business, particularly in OTC or consumer-directed health care. We are still in the midst of divesting or disintegrating our RX business. So, while we've announced it, that's not over. We're still in that process.

We're also in the process of building the health care brands we have already and taking advantage of their equities. And I'm encouraged by some of the work going on there. We still do suffer from the Prilosec entries, the competitive entries versus Prilosec, obviously, and that is a big impact on our numbers. And last, we are working to expand our health care portfolio. But I don't want to disclose what we are doing because that's competitively sensitive.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, that's all the time we have for your questions. I will now turn the call over to Mr. Jon Moeller for closing remarks.

JON MOELLER: Thanks, everybody. We are obviously available the balance of the day to answer any follow-up questions.

OPERATOR: Thank you all for your participation on today's conference call. This concludes the presentation, and you may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
prgml : The Procter & Gamble Company
   IN
iprscp : Personal Care Accessories | iface : Facial Care Products | ihair : Hair Care Products | i258 : Cosmetics/Toiletries | i2583 : Skin Care Products | icnp : Consumer Products | ipcare : Personal Care Products/Appliances
   NS
cbrand : Branding | cmarkr : Market Research | c151 : Earnings | c11 : Plans/Strategy | ntra : Transcript | c32 : Advertising | c15 : Performance | c31 : Marketing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | ven : Venezuela | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | lamz : Latin America | namz : North America | samz : South America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020100513e64t001e9
  


 HD
 Q2  2010  Procter  & Gamble Company Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
9,020 words
   PD
28 January 2010
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©010 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
OPERATOR: Good morning and welcome to Procter & Gamble's quarter end conference call. Today's discussion will include a number of forward-looking statements. If you will refer to P&G's most recent 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K reports, you will see a discussion of factors that could cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from these projections. As required by Regulation G, P&G needs to make you aware that during the call, the Company will make a number of references to non-GAAP and other financial measures. Management believes these measures provide investors valuable information on the underlying growth trends of the business. Organic refers to reported results excluding the impact of acquisitions and divestitures and foreign exchange, where applicable. Adjusted free cash flow represents operating cash flow less capital expenditures and the after-tax impact of the global pharmaceutical divestiture.

   TD
 Adjusted free cash flow productivity is the ratio of free cash flow to net earnings, excluding the gains on divestitures of our pharmaceuticals business. Core EPS refers to earnings per-share from continuing operations, excluding certain unusual items.

P&G has posted on its website, www.PG.com, a full reconciliation of non-GAAP and other financial measures.

Now I will turn the call over to P&G's Chief Financial Officer, Jon Moeller.

JON MOELLER, VP AND CFO, PROCTER & GAMBLE COMPANY: Thanks and good morning, everyone. Bob McDonald and Teri List join me this morning. I'll begin today's call with a summary of second-quarter results. Teri will cover business highlights by operating segment. I will then comment briefly on Venezuela and on pricing before providing guidance at the end of the call. Bob, Teri and I will take questions after our prepared remarks. Following the call, Teri, [Mark Ursig], John Chevalier and I will be available to provide additional perspective as needed.

We had a very strong quarter with organic volume growing 5%, a 7-point improvement versus last quarter. While the base period was admittedly a weaker one, this volume progress reflects a strong innovation program supported by higher media [weights] and sharper consumer value. Organic sales grew 5%, a 3-point improvement versus last quarter and at the top end of our guidance range.

Progress was broad-based. Five of six reportable segments grew organic sales. Both developed and developing markets grew organic sales and volume and showed sequential quarter-on-quarter improvement in growth rates. Foreign exchange added to organic sales, resulting in all-in sales being up 6%. All-in GAAP earnings per share were $1.49, $0.05 per share above the high end of our guidance range. The over-delivery was driven by strong top-line growth and by margin expansion.

All-in GAAP earnings per-share were down 6% versus year ago, reflecting the smaller gain on the pharmaceuticals divestiture and the gain on the Folgers divestiture that was in the base period year ago. The current-period gain on the sale of the global pharmaceuticals business was $1.5 billion, which compares to a $2 billion gain on the sale of Folgers.

Core earnings per share, which exclude one-time items, were up 22%. Gross margin was up 330 basis points, primarily due to lower commodity costs and our ongoing productivity and cost reduction initiatives.

Operating margin expanded 160 basis points, as higher gross margin was partially offset by higher SG&A. SG&A increased 170 basis points, due to higher marketing support, the proactive conversion of bolivars into dollars ahead of the Venezuela currency devaluation and the establishment of a reserve for potential legal liabilities. This reserve relates to ongoing inquiries being conducted by competition authorities in Europe, which we and other companies in our industry have previously disclosed. The matters being investigated are not recent; they date back many years. While no final rulings have been made, we have decided to establish a reserve for potential liabilities in a couple of countries this quarter.

The effective tax rate on the quarter from continuing operations was 29.8%. This was up 450 basis points versus year ago, primarily due to lower audit settlements and foreign tax credits as well as certain nondeductible charges in the current year. Adjusted free cash flow was strong at $3.1 billion. Fiscal year to date we've generated $7.1 billion of adjusted free cash flow, which is more than 100% of our earnings excluding gains from the global pharmaceuticals divestiture.

In November Moody's revised its outlook on P&G's AA-minus credit rating to stable, which reflects this strong cash progress. During the October-December quarter we resumed our share repurchase program, $1.4 billion of shares were repurchase. We currently expect to repurchase about $5 billion for the full fiscal year.

In terms of acquisitions and divestitures, we announced the closing of the pharmaceutical sales to Warner Chilcott. This move enables us to focus singularly on winning in consumer health care -- Personal Health Care, Oral Care and Feminine Care -- where we are able to fully leverage our core capabilities as a Company.

Also during the December quarter we announced the acquisition of the Ambi Pur air care business from Sara Lee. Ambi Pur is a strategic home run. Its geographic presence complements ours, as do its product technologies. The strategic benefits Ambi Pur brings will enable us to more quickly expand and strengthen our air care business. Closing of the acquisition will put us in the air care business in over 80 countries.

The purchase price was EUR320 million, which translates to $470 million on the day the deal was announced. Based on estimated results for the year ended June 2009, this equates to a sales multiple of 1.2 and an EBITDA multiple of 13.3, which we believe represent good value for our shareholders. We expect to close the acquisition, panting regulatory approval, during the April-June quarter.

Stepping back, we are very pleased with our October-December results. Strong volume growth enabled us to hit the top end of our organic sales range. Solid top-line results, coupled with our cost and productivity efforts, also enabled us to exceed bottom-line expectations. We generated a significant amount of cash and affected important strategic adjustments to our portfolio.

While we have more work to do, particularly in regards to share growth, on a global basis value shares for the December quarter were slightly below year-ago levels. Due to time lags associated with reporting the share data, share growth is inherently a trailing indicator. Share improved sequentially through the quarter and should turn positive during the March quarter. This is an important measure to us, as it is indicative of whether we are accomplishing our objective of serving more consumers in more parts of the world more completely.

We are accelerating innovation in the second half, increasing marketing support and improving consumer value to profitably grow value market share. We'll do this while maintaining our focus on cost and cash discipline. We are expanding our portfolio vertically, horizontally and into geographic white space, but we are also working to constantly improve existing offerings to deliver more value to consumers.

A look at our innovation programs in a couple of key categories over the last two quarters helps illustrate this. In Baby Care, we introduced our tier three diapers, Pampers Simply Dry, into Spain during the December quarter. This builds on successful launches in Germany, France, Greece and the UK. In all four of these countries we achieved record diaper value shares during the quarter. In our lead market, Germany, we reached our highest-ever diaper value share of 63.4%, up more than 5 share points versus year-ago.

Similarly, the expansion of our tier three diaper called Sleep 'n Play in the Middle East is off to a strong start. Across the Arabian Peninsula, Sleep 'n Play shipments already represent about 10% of our total business. In addition to offering consumers more lower-tier options to care for their babies, we are expanding our portfolio and improving consumer value at the top end. UnderJams, a premium pull-up overnight bedwetter product, just started shipping in the UK, Germany, Austria, Switzerland and Belgium this week. Launches in additional countries will follow.

And we recently announced the launch of Pampers Swaddlers and Cruisers with Dry Max technology across North America, beginning in March. Pampers Dry Max is the biggest innovation for the Pampers brand in 25 years. It's our driest diaper ever and is 20% thinner than our existing product. Dry Max is a dramatically improved product with clear benefits for baby, mom, retailers and the environment. The revolutionary Dry Max technology helps lock wetness in for up to 12 hours and a new, thinner core gives babies more freedom to move and to play. The thinner design allows moms and retailers to carry more diapers in less space. And because Dry Max is being offered at the same price as existing offerings, it provides a great consumer value. Finally, Dry Max will positively impact the environment. If current North American Pampers Swaddlers and Cruisers users switch to Pampers with Dry Max, it will save the weight of 1 billion diapers every three years. The smaller package will reduce packing materials and the amount of energy needed to transport the product.

So, as you can see, in Baby Care we are expanding the portfolio down and up, expanding our geographic footprint across tiers and dramatically improving our current offerings.

In laundry we are expanding our portfolio horizontally with Tide Stain Release and Ariel Professional and laundry additives and Bounce Dryer Bar in the fabric enhancer segment. Both innovations continue to exceed expectations.

In our lead market of Turkey, Ariel Professional is over a 25 share. In the United States, Tide Stain Release shares exceed 10% and year-one retail sales will approach $100 million, while Bounce Dryer Bar shares are nearly 6%.

We are also expanding our laundry portfolio vertically and into geographic white space. In Western Europe we're innovating in the premium tier with Excel Gel. Excel Gel is a new-to-the-world gel that gives the best cleaning performance possible and saves energy because it cleans well in cold water. It allows for controlled dispensing and is consumer preferred by a margin of two to one. Excel Gel continues to perform well with value shares approaching 10% in the United Kingdom. Shares are growing in Germany, France and Spain as well.

In Japan, our newest laundry brand, [Serasa], was introduced in September and is off to a strong start. Serasa is priced at a 15% premium versus the category average and is designed for consumers who want a laundry detergent that cleans well and also provides natural and gentle benefits.

We also introduced Tide Naturals in India and [Hache] in Colombia during the December quarter. Tide Naturals is priced 30% lower than regular Tide at INR20 for 400 grams of product. With 75% of the laundry market priced at INR20 or below, this will allow us to reach a much broader spectrum of Indian households. Hache is a mid-tier laundry brand which complements Ariel's stain removal equity and Bold's softness equity. In the five months since being launched, Hache has grown to almost 2.5% of the Colombian market.

Finally, we introduced Ariel into Uganda and Senegal during the December quarter. This follows the launch of Ariel into Kenya during the September quarter and is part of our strategy to dramatically increase our business in East Africa.

In Oral Care we continue to expand our portfolio as well. Oral-B toothpaste and toothbrush shares in Brazil continue to exceed expectations. Based on our in-market success, we have initiated the second wave of our toothpaste expansion plan, which will take us beyond the pharmacy channel. The Oral-B (inaudible) launch in Belgium and the Netherlands is also going well, having achieved an 8% national share since being launched in February 2009.

Crest Pro-Health is off to a strong start in China with initial shipments ahead of expectations. The equity benefit we've created is positively impacting other parts of our Oral Care business in China. This is one of the reasons Oral Care shipments in China were up double-digits in the most recent quarter. The Crest Pro-Health formula is being expanded to other markets around the world. For example, blend-a-med EXPERT, which uses the Crest Pro-Health formula, was recently launched in Germany and has pushed total blend-a-med value shares to nearly 11%.

In Hair Care we are significantly improving and expanding our Salon offerings with the introduction of Fekkai Advanced. Fekkai Advanced will be sold exclusively in high-end salons and department stores all around the world, while Fekkai Classic will be launched into mass retail as a super-premium offering.

I could go on, but I think these examples give you a picture of the work we are doing and the investments we are making to expand our portfolio vertically, horizontally and geographically in order to serve more consumers in more parts of the world more completely. Bob will provide more perspective on our second-half innovation plans at CAGNY in February, and we hope to see many of you there.

So, to summarize, a strong innovation program, increased marketing support, better consumer value, tight cost control and cash discipline have resulted in growing momentum in what was, all in, a very strong quarter.

With that, let me turn the call over to Teri.

TERI LIST, SVP AND TREASURER, PROCTER & GAMBLE COMPANY: Thanks, Jon. Starting with the Beauty segment, organic sales increased 4%, driven mainly by 3% organic unit volume growth and benefits from pricing. Retail Hair Care delivered a solid quarter with mid-single digit organic volume growth, led by the Pantene, Head & Shoulders and Rejoice brands. All three brands grew volume 5% or more for the quarter.

On a geographic basis, China led the Hair Care growth with shipments of the Pantene, Head & Shoulders and Rejoice brands all up 15% or more. P&G's all-outlet value share of US retail hair care is approximately 32%, up slightly versus prior year. Skin Care volume was up low-single digits with balanced growth in developed and developing markets. Global Skin Care value share is up versus prior year to 10% and Olay all-outlet value share of US facial moisturizers is up more than a point to over 45%. The strong US share progress is due to the success of the Olay Pro-X line, which we continued to leverage.

Personal Cleansing volume increased mid-single digits, driven by double-digit growth in developing markets. The Safeguard brand was up mid-teens in developing markets. Volume in the Prestige Beauty business was down slightly, driven by continued market size declines. Organic volume in the Salon Professional business was down mid-single digits due to the ongoing impacts of the global economic downturn.

In the Cosmetics business, CoverGirl shipments were up low singles and US all-outlet value share was up more than a point to nearly 21%. The strong share performance has been driven by continued leverage of Simply Ageless Foundation and Exact Eyelights Mascara Innovations that launched last spring.

In the Grooming segment, organic sales were in line with prior year. Volume was down 2%. Pricing contributed 4% to sales growth, and product and geographic mix reduced sales by 2%.

In the Male Blades and Razors business, organic volume was in line with prior year levels as mid-single digit growth in developing markets was offset by lower shipments in developed markets. Greater China shipments were up 20% behind distribution expansion of the Vector system, and India Blades and Razor shipments were up more than 25%, driven by the November launch of the Mach 3 razor.

In developed markets, Fusion shipments grew mid-singles but were more than offset by a mid-teens decline of Mach 3. Gillette all-outlet value share of the US Male Blades and Razors category was up fairly half a point to over 77%. Fusion's share of US Male systems is over 45%, up more than 4 points versus the prior year. Global Fusion shares have grown versus prior year every quarter since being introduced four years ago.

The Braun business continued to be affected by weak category demand, and shipments declined low-single digits. However, this was a significant improvement in the trends compared to the mid-teens declines over the last few quarters. Braun's share of hair removal appliances in the US was up a point and a half to more than 24% behind the strength of male shaver accessories. In Western Europe Braun's share of hair removal appliances was up nearly 4 points to 42% with strong improvement in both male and female products.

Shipments of Male Personal Care products were up high-single digits due to soft results for the TAG brand and increased competitive activity in the shave prep category.

In Health Care, organic sales were up 2% and organic value increased 3%. The net impact of pricing and mix lowered sales by 1%. In Oral Care shipments increased mid-single digits with developing markets up high singles and developed markets in line with prior year. In developing markets Oral-B volume was up 30% in Brazil, driven by the launch of Oral-B toothpaste and related market share gains on toothbrushes, and the brand was up nearly 40% in India behind manual toothbrush expansion.

The Crest brand grew mid-teens in China behind the launch of Crest Pro-Health toothpaste, which is off to a very strong start. In developed markets solid growth in Western Europe on both the Crest and Oral-B franchises were roughly offset by lower shipments of Oral-B in North America.

Feminine Care volume grew low-single digits as double-digit growth in China and over 30% growth in India was largely offset by volume softness in Latin America following price increases. In the US, the Always brand grew all-outlet value share of feminine pads by half a point to 59%. Tampax increased its share of the US tampon market by nearly a point to more than 48%, driven by strong advertising and in-store programs for Tampax Pearl.

Personal Health Care volume increased mid-single digits, driven mainly by a double-digit increase in Vicks shipments due to the early start of the cold and flu season. Pepto-Bismol and Metamucil also delivered strong volume growth, and the Align probiotic brand continued to perform well in its first year in market. Align is now at a 25% volume share of the US probiotics supplement market. These increases more than offset a mid-teens decline on Prilosec OTC volume due to increased competitive activity.

In the Snacks and Pet Care segment, organic sales were up 3%. Organic volume increases of 1% and pricing of 5% were partially offset by negative product mix. Snacks volume declined versus prior year, but organic sales were higher due to price increases taken last year with the Super Stack can re-stage. Pringles has begun to see a recovery in trade support in key national accounts, which had fallen sharply after the price increase last January. Pringles has now annualized the North America restage in pricing, and the brand expects improved volume trends in calendar year 2010.

Pet Care delivered solid volume growth in the mid-single digits behind the continued strength of the Iams ProActive Health, Iams Premium Protection and Eukanuba Naturally Wild initiative. P&G all-outlet share of the US Pet Nutrition business is up versus prior year and is approaching 10%.

In the Fabric and Home Care segment, organic sales increased 7% and volume grew 8%. Home Care led to growth with volume up double digits. Fabric Care increased high-single digits and [diary] volumes grew low singles. The strong results were aided by a weak base period caused by the global economic crisis, as well as the effect from the price increases taken in the fall of 2008.

In Home Care, volume growth was broad-based across brands and regions. The Dawn, Cascade and Febreze brands all grew shipments in the teens, and Swiffer was up mid-single digits. Geographically, all regions delivered volume growth and developed and developing markets were both up double digits.

In the US, Cascade all-outlet value share is up more than 3 points to 67%, driven by strong marketing and in-store programs designed to increase trial. Febreze all-outlet share of the US Air Care market is also up more than 3 points to nearly 21% behind the Home Collections initiative, which launched last summer.

Fabric Care shipments were also strong across brands and geographies with all regions and major brands delivering healthy volume growth. The Gain brand delivered strong volume growth, up low teens, due largely to the weak base period. Tide shipments were up high-single digits, including strong growth in North American behind the Tide Stain Release laundry additive launch. Tide Stain Release is fast approaching a 10% value share of the stain removers market in the US. Tide all-outlet value share of laundry detergents remains above 30% and is down less than a point versus prior year. The Downy-Lenor global franchise grew volume mid-teens, driven by nearly 30% growth in both Western Europe and Asia behind strong trade support programs and consumer value interventions.

Battery volume was up modestly for the quarter, with North America and Western Europe in line with prior-year levels. US market size in unit terms recovered somewhat, posting all-outlet growth of nearly 6%. With volume essentially flat in a growing market, Duracell market share on both a unit and value basis declined more than 3 points for the quarter. The brand is acting to stem these share losses with consumer value interventions on larger size packs. The new [upcounted] packs began showing up in stores this month.

Baby Care and Family Care delivered organic sales growth of 8% and organic volume growth of 10%. Product mix reduced sales by 2% due to a shift toward larger pack sizes. Global Baby Care shipments were up high-single digits with strong growth in both developed and developing markets. Pampers shipments were up mid-singles in North America, high-singles in Western Europe and double digits in Asia and the CEEMEA region. The expansion of Pampers Simply Dry value tier diaper in Western Europe continues to progress well, as Jon mentioned. Pampers diaper value share in Western Europe is up 2 points to over 56%, and value share in the UK is up more than 4 points to over 62%.

In the US, P&G's all-outlet value share of diapers was up a point to over 38% with both the Pampers and Luvs brands growing market share. The Pampers' share progress is especially encouraging, since the benefits from the Dry Max innovation won't be fully reflected in market share data until the June quarter.

Finally, Family Care shipments were up low teens due to a combination of consumer value intervention, initiatives launched earlier in the year and a soft base period. Charmin's all-outlet value share of the US toilet tissue category was up more than a point to 28%. And Bounty's share of the US paper towel category is up 2 points to over 46%.

That concludes the business segment review, and I'll hand the call back to Jon.

JON MOELLER: Before I get to guidance, I want to briefly address a couple of items; first, Venezuela. It has been our practice to maintain a proactive stance towards the conversion and repatriation of the Venezuelan bolivars, in line with current exchange controls, while still holding enough local currency assets to efficiently run our business.

In anticipation of a potential devaluation, we accelerated the conversion and repatriation of bolivars. That is one of the reasons that SG&A as a percentage of sales increased during the December quarter. There was a similar impact in the September quarter.

Because we have managed our exposure proactively, any onetime translation impact with the currency devaluation will be negligible. However, both the top and bottom line will be impacted going forward. We estimate net impacts over the balance of the fiscal gear will reduce all-in sales by about 1%. The bottom-line impact is currently estimated at up to $0.05 to $0.10 per share.

A high degree of uncertainty remains in Venezuela. For example, it's not currently known if enough dollars will be made available at the official rate to preclude the need to enter the parallel market. In addition, the pricing environment and related consumption impacts are not certain at this time. So these current year numbers and the ongoing impacts may change. We are working to respond quickly, but recovery plans will take time to execute. It's our intention over time to fully restore sales and profit levels seen prior to devaluation. We've done this historically in Venezuela and in other markets around the world.

We've received several questions recently on price reductions, which I also wanted to address. We remain committed to delivering good value to our consumers. In many instances we are able to deliver consumer value through innovations that perform better or at incremental values. This is the case, for example, with Pampers Dry Max. Occasionally, however, we need to make targeted price adjustments to deliver sufficient consumer value. This is typically done for one of three reasons. The first instance is where we took commodity or foreign exchange-based pricing, and then underlying market trends reversed or, after a period of time, our price gaps versus competition remained outside historical norms.

The targeted price interventions we've made in North America, on laundry large sizes and in tissue/towels, as well as across Central and Eastern Europe, the Middle East and Africa, have been of this nature.

The second situation where we may lower prices is when we are making strategic adjustments to our portfolio. A good example of this is the recent intervention we made on Cheer. We lowered Cheer prices 13% in October in order to give consumers a broader range of choices and further differentiate Cheer from Tide.

While it's still early, we are confident this decision was the right one. We are now looking to reposition Era, which we believe will optimize our laundry portfolio even further.

The final situation where we may lower prices is when competition has initiated pricing or promotional strategies that cause share loss over an extended period of time. This is the case, as Teri mentioned, in batteries. To restore our consumer value proposition, we have upsized some of our AA and AAA pack counts in North America. These pricing interventions are very targeted versus being broad-based. All of the pricing investments we've made over the past year to improve consumer value represent only about 1% of sales.

Turning to guidance, we've been indicating for some time that second-half earnings growth will be lower than the first half. The biggest driver of this is incremental marketing investments to support our innovation program, which, as we've mentioned, is back-half loaded. Second, we expect less favorable year-on-year commodity comparisons. Third, pricing benefits we've been receiving should continue to diminish as they annualize. Finally, as I indicated earlier, the impact of the recent currency devaluation in Venezuela will impact second-half results.

So with that background, let me move to specific guidance. We are increasing fiscal year organic sales growth expectations to 3% to 5%. This is an increase of 1 percentage point versus our previous guidance range. The increase is driven by December quarter results, confidence in our innovation and investment program and our expectation for slightly higher rates of underlying market growth during the second half of the year.

Foreign exchange, based on current spot rates, should be flat to up 1%, resulting in all-in sales of 3% to 6%.

Core earnings per share are now expected to be $3.53 to $3.63 per share, up 2% to 5% versus year-ago. This is an improvement from our prior guidance range of flat to up 3% and recognizes the underlying improvement we are seeing on the business. We are maintaining our all-in GAAP earnings per share guidance range at $4.02 to $4.12 per share. The legal reserves, which are not reflected in core earnings per share, are covered within this.

Given the impact of Venezuela and the legal reserves and the significant advancements we are making to accelerate growth, we believe estimates above the high end of our guidance range may be aggressive.

Turning to the March quarter, we expect organic sales growth of 4% to 6%. All-in sales inclusive of a 3- to 4-point benefit from foreign exchange are expected to be up 7% to 10%. At this level of sales growth we expect to grow global value share. Both core and all-in GAAP earnings per share are expected to be $0.77 to $0.82 per share.

In closing, we are very pleased with the progress we're making while acknowledging there is more work ahead of us. We'll continue to invest in innovation and portfolio expansion. We remain focused on dramatic simplification and managing cost and cash with discipline to create a sustainable level of support. We are confident these investments and actions will enable us to serve more consumers in more parts of the world more completely and profitably grow our business.

Bob, Teri and I would now like to open up the call for questions.

OPERATOR: (Operator instructions) Wendy Nicholson, Citi Investment Research.

WENDY NICHOLSON, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: My question had to do with the investment spending you are making in developing markets, because some of the numbers you were reading, kind of 30% growth in one business in China, 20% growth in another business -- I'm wondering if that's a reflection of just a much more buoyant China market generally, and whether you are seeing those types of growth rates in India and elsewhere, or whether you are just spending a ton of money on advertising and promotion in those markets.

BOB MCDONALD, CHAIRMAN, PRESIDENT & CEO, PROCTER & GAMBLE COMPANY: As Jon tried to indicate in his remarks about our innovation program, and we feel sorry that we had to cut them short, we had to try to summarize, our innovation program is happening all over the world. And we're spending behind the innovation program to get the awareness and trial objectives we need to grow market share profitably. So there really is not an unevenness in our spending country to country or innovation to innovation. It's spending behind the innovation program, it's spending behind the core business, and that whole idea is to grow market share profitably.

OPERATOR: John Faucher, JPMorgan.

JOHN FAUCHER, ANALYST, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: Bob, back in late August you talked about getting aggressive in terms of the portfolio. So it's another six months past then. Can you give us your latest thinking in terms of time line, your thoughts in terms of where you think you can add -- obviously, very general here. And do you think you still need to do some major pruning, or do you feel like most of that work has been done? So sort of just the overall status of the portfolio right now. Thanks.

BOB MCDONALD: I would say we've just started. As you know, we've turned our purpose, touching and improving lives, into a strategy, touching and improving more lives in more parts of the world more completely. Jon gave you some examples of how we've been expanding the portfolio vertically, horizontally and into adjacencies, in his remarks. But we've really just started.

Remember, we've been in China since 1988. We're only in about 14 categories. We lead all of them but one. But the spending per capita in China is only $3 a year on Procter & Gamble products. That compares to the United States, where we are in over 25 categories, and the per capita spending a year is $100. So we've got a long way to go, but we've started the journey. Getting the portfolio right is strategic, and we are working to do that so we can touch and improve more lives.

Not surprisingly, there is a direct correlation between the number of categories we are in, in each country, the market share we have in each country, the profit margin we have in each country and how many lives we are touching and improving and, importantly, the growth rate in each country. So getting the portfolio right is strategic, and that's our focus.

OPERATOR: Lauren Lieberman, Barclays Capital.

LAUREN LIEBERMAN, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: I just was struck by how strong organic volume was this quarter. I know that part of it there, certainly the comparisons help. But it would be great if you could help us understand what in the portfolio still feels negative. You went through the list of things that are positive. What's still really not where you want it to be, where you're still hoping for further reacceleration as we move through the next couple of quarters?

JON MOELLER: Well, I think one area, Lauren, is clearly the more discretionary categories. Teri talked in her remarks about the prestige fragrance business, Salon Hair Care and Braun. We are seeing sequential improvement in the market size reductions for those categories. But clearly, those are areas that we are not growing at the rates we expect to, longer-term.

BOB MCDONALD: Lauren, I would also add that any business that we have that is not growing market share profitably, we are inpatient to get that share growth. And Jon mentioned that we expect, on a Company average basis, we'll see share growth in the March quarter. But as we talked, we have to make some interventions to get that share growth. We talked about the intervention we've made on batteries. That's an example of an intervention we've made to get share growth. So our innovations and the marketing behind those innovations, coupled with some of these interventions -- we're hoping to get the majority of the portfolio to share growth by March and we're on our way there. We're on track.

OPERATOR: Bill Smith, Deutsche Bank.

BILL SMITH, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Can you just talk about shipments versus consumption, how that has changed and if you see that improving going forward? There was not a whole lot of commentary, shipments versus end-user consumption.

BOB MCDONALD: Jon talked about cash, Bill, and a lot of the outstanding cash discipline we have has been around our management of inventories, both our internal inventories as well as external inventories with our retail customers. As a result of that, our shipments in consumption match up pretty doggone closely, and we watch it weekly -- well, daily. But we review it on a Company-wide basis with the Vice Chairman weekly, and it's running pretty much one to one.

OPERATOR: Nik Modi, UBS.

NIK MODI, ANALYST, UBS: In terms of the top line for this quarter and then as you think about the March quarter, can you just break down how you're thinking about it in context of your algorithm with category growth and white space and share? If you could just break it down for us, that would be helpful.

JON MOELLER: Our general objective, Nik, as you know, is to grow our business 1 to 2 points ahead of market growth, which obviously is consistent with an objective of building market share. We are looking at currently projecting market growth of 2% to 3% for the fiscal year, which is an improvement versus the last time we've all been together, when we were thinking it was about 1% to 2%.

So if you look at that 2% to 3% on the year compared to sales growth on an organic basis of 3% to 5%, I think that gives you the breakdown that you're looking for.

OPERATOR: Chris Ferrara, Banc of America.

CHRIS FERRARA, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: I just wanted to talk about pricing again. John, I guess once upon a time we had been talking about pricing hitting 10% of the portfolio. And you're saying it hit 1% of price overall, or I guess 1% of the top line. Are there more interventions coming going forward, and do you still feel comfortable with that view that your pricing interventions would only be across 10% of the portfolio?

JON MOELLER: As you can imagine, Chris, this is a very fluid situation. We are constantly managing, as you know, our value metrics versus competitive offerings. And we respond to those on a real-time basis. So I really don't want to get overly granular on a number. But the directionality of our commentary, both on the 10% of the portfolio and 1% of sales, I think, still holds. We're not looking -- in no geography are we leading price declines. We are responding to gaps that we see and we'll continue to do that. But I don't think you should expect broad-based pricing activity.

OPERATOR: Joe Altobello, Oppenheimer.

JOE ALTOBELLO, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER: I just wanted to square the disconnect between the pretty solid organic growth you guys saw in the quarter and your commentary about shares being down modestly year-over-year. And then as a follow-up, you mentioned that shares did improve throughout the quarter. Is that innovation? Is that marketing? Or are you starting to see consumers trade up again?

BOB MCDONALD: In our prepared remarks, Jon said that shares naturally lag shipments. And so the shares we are talking about are shares that are a few months old. We also, obviously, look at scanner data as well as off-take from our distributors. And that's what gives us confidence in saying that we are making progress in growing market share around the world profitably.

That market share growth is generally coming from places where we are innovating, where we have the right consumer value, where we are doing a good job marketing, getting the trial and awareness that we need of our business, both core business as well as new innovations. And as we look out, remember we said that the innovation program is getting stronger in the second half. And that's one of the things that gives us confidence. And also, as Jon said, that we don't see a large amount of pervasive pricing activity in the second half. That's what gives us confidence to see that that trend in share growth will continue.

JON MOELLER: As we have talked before, while there has been some dynamic of trade down -- and I mentioned, clearly, the market size impact on discretionary categories -- we have continued to fare well in the premium portions of the market. Teri mentioned in her remarks our progress on Olay Pro-X. The Fusion business, you know, up 4 share points in the last quarter, clearly is indicative of a consumer who is willing to spend for value driven by performance. And there are other examples. So it's not one-size-fits-all.

BOB MCDONALD: It's interesting, if you go to a country like India, for example, where our Baby Care growth has been very strong, we have mothers with arguably lower disposable income than those of us in the United States choosing to buy disposable diapers rather than having their babies not have any diaper at all or use cloth because they know that that disposable diaper will help their baby sleep through the night, which will aid their development and obviously be better for the mother as well.

I think this idea that this economy is causing everyone to trade down is a little bit overly general and too broadly applied. Innovation and improving lives is really what is critical for us on a consumer-by-consumer basis.

OPERATOR: Andrew Sawyer, Goldman Sachs.

ANDREW SAWYER, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: I was hoping to zero in a little bit on the Family Care portion of business. I think, Jon, you talked about the conditions for targeted pricing reductions in speaking about reversals in foreign exchange and commodities. Clearly, this is an area where you've gotten very nice returns on your promotional investment, very strong volume growth. How should we think about the outlook for that going forward with pulp prices having moved back up, polypropylene moving back up a bit, nat gas moving up? And, how are you weighing the continued promotional investments and the fixed cost leverage you're showing on that versus the higher commodity cost outlook in that division?

JON MOELLER: In general, obviously, I don't want to comment on pricing strategy in this kind of a setting. We'll continue to watch this. Any move that we make will obviously be weighed with consumer value in mind and be made on a comparative basis relative to how other competition is responding. It's clearly something we are watching, given the commodity cost increases that you appropriately mentioned. But beyond that, I think it would be inappropriate for me to comment specifically.

OPERATOR: Doug Lane, Jefferies & Co.

DOUG LANE, ANALYST, JEFFERIES & CO.: Just focusing on the Brazil toothpaste, what are your market shares there in the pharmacy channel? And also is the decision to move beyond the pharmacy ahead of expectations?

BOB MCDONALD: Doug, our shares in the pharmacy channel are roughly 20% in Brazil. And as Jon said, we are now expanding into other channels as of January.

OPERATOR: Jason Gere, RBC Capital.

JASON GERE, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Thinking into 2011, and I know you are just warning people not to get too aggressive on expectations, but I was just wondering if you could talk maybe about the scale opportunity versus the spending algorithm. Would that prohibit you, as you look forward, getting back towards that long-term 10% earnings growth that you guys have delivered, or do you see how -- you have to see how the innovation and the market growth plays out first before maybe declaring that victory?

BOB MCDONALD: As we look forward, obviously there is uncertainty as to what the underlying market growth will be. But as we said, we have the strongest innovation program we've had over the last 30 years or so. We have a very clear strategy of getting our portfolio right all over the world. We want to continue to make the investments necessary to get that portfolio expanded around the world but we are cognizant that we have to do that in a responsible way and deliver the profit necessary. That's why we're talking about growing share profitably.

OPERATOR: Bill Chappell, SunTrust.

BILL CHAPPELL, ANALYST, SUNTRUST ROBINSON HUMPHREY: A couple one-off things. On Venezuela, I didn't fully understand. Had you projected this $0.05 to $0.10 hits in your original expectations, or is this incremental in terms of your new guidance? And then, also, can you give a little bit more color on the European or the charge taken in the quarter? Are there any future charges, and just what that pertains to? Thanks so much.

JON MOELLER: Let me address Venezuela first. I wish we had a crystal ball that allowed us to predict things like 100% devaluations, but we don't. So the $0.05 to $0.10 is incremental to what we were expecting previously. I'll let Bob comment on the European matter.

BOB MCDONALD: Bill, on the European matter, the legal reserve -- we and other companies have previously reported, we've reported for the last three years in our annual report that there had been a number of ongoing antitrust inquiries in Europe. And the reserve relates to potential liabilities resulting from those inquiries. As Jon said during his prepared remarks, this reserve relates to a couple of countries in Europe, but there are a number of ongoing inquiries being conducted by competition authorities in Europe, and these could result in additional liabilities.

It's too early for us to reasonably estimate the total amount of fines to which the Company will be subject as a result of these various competition law issues. Again, it's an industry issue. Many companies are involved. These are one-time in nature, and they won't impact our investment in the business.

OPERATOR: Ali Dibadj, Bernstein.

ALI DIBADJ, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & COMPANY, INC.: I would appreciate, if you would, just a little bit further perspective on your solid organic growth number for this quarter and then going forward, I guess on two dimensions, volume and price mix broadly. But the first, on volume, I guess -- given the retailer and consumer destocking that we talked about a year ago this quarter, you described it as about minus 3% of volume, how should we see your actual take-away volumes this quarter? Should we think about it about 3% below what you reported at least, even assuming no restocking? So that's the volume question.

And then secondly, if you could just give a little bit more granularity -- I understand you don't want to go into too much detail -- but what we should expect going forward for price mix. Maybe some idea by segment, but at least by US versus rest of world, if you could, along both of those dimensions. That would be helpful. Thank you.

BOB MCDONALD: Let me start, and then Jon will follow me. Our Q2 organic sales growth was due to underlying market growth of about 3% -- and again, I'm rounding these off to integers. Inventory rebuilds, about 2%. Share growth, as we said, not where we want it to be, about zero. So about 3% market growth, about 2% inventory rebuild. The organic volume growth was strong in every region, and that's what drove organic sales to the high end of our guidance range.

But as I said, even with retailer inventories contributing about 2 points, we're watching those inventories and working with retailers all over the world. As you know, destocking, as retailers do, actually benefits the Procter & Gamble Company because we create and market leading brands. And the leading brands are usually the ones that end up being on the shelf and end up selling more.

JON MOELLER: I would just at one point, which is the point of momentum. So volume -- we were down two points in JAS. And in this quarter, depending on how you want to look at it, whether it's 5 or 3, it's significant progress versus the prior-quarter growth rate. And then going forward, we talked about growing the business sequentially. We are guiding to 4% to 6% organic sales growth with volume ahead of that slightly in the third quarter.

So there may be some inventory impacts, as you cite, but the general trend is continued very positive.

OPERATOR: Alice Longley, Buckingham Research.

ALICE LONGLEY, ANALYST, BUCKINGHAM RESEARCH: Just building on that information, could you bring to market growth in the US broadly, Western Europe and developing markets, and also tell us where you gained share and where you lost share among those three pieces?

BOB MCDONALD: I'll start with the market share and then Jon can follow. Basically, we gained market share -- now, again, this is through November. Remember these numbers lag our shipments quite substantially. But we gained share in places like Latin America. Our share was basically flat in places like Western Europe, Asia. We lost a little bit of share in North America. And the biggest change was really in Central/Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa, where the economies commented quite precipitously last year, and as a result we had to take substantial pricing. And as we take that substantial pricing, our competitors typically do not follow us immediately. And that's where we lost the largest amount of share over the last three months, through that November period.

JON MOELLER: In terms of market growth, we are seeing stronger market growth in developing markets than developed markets, obviously not back to the levels that it was. But China is growing again. The markets that were most severely impacted by the economic crisis, namely Eastern Europe and the Middle East, have bounced back the sharpest. And markets like Latin America and India, which really weren't affected by the crisis, continue to grow.

So we are seeing growth in developing markets at healthy rates, albeit below historical levels, and we are seeing modest growth in developed markets from a market standpoint. Our business split really in terms of volume growth is about 4 points of growth in developed and about 6 points in developing.

OPERATOR: Linda Bolton-Weiser, Caris & Company.

LINDA BOLTON-WEISER, ANALYST, CARIS & COMPANY: In terms of your decision to take Frederic Fekkai into the mass market, it seems to be a trend developing in the Professional Hair Care segment. Maybe L'Oreal will come out with something. It just seems like the market is moving that way. Is that not a threat, long-term, to the Salon channel and the Professional Hair Care in the Salon channel, because the consumer will find the convenience of buying the products at mass? So can you just explain your decision and whether you think it would impact the Wella business long-term?

BOB MCDONALD: Linda, we don't expect it to impact a well a business. In fact, we introduced a new, more advanced Fekkai for the professional channel before we took the classic Fekkai into retail, just like we have Eukanuba in pet specialty stores and we have Iams in grocery stores. Our principle as a Company is to have our products for sale wherever the consumer wants to shop, whether that's online, whether that's in the specialty store or whether that's in a professional salon. And so we are going to continue to do that, but we also recognize we have a responsibility to work with retailers and consumers to differentiate those offerings based upon the consumers who shop in those specific channels. So you can still buy, you can still get and can still use a professional Fekkai in department stores and in salons, but you will also be able to buy the classic Fekkai in your normal retail outlets. They are different.

OPERATOR: Caroline Levy, Calyon.

CAROLINE LEVY, ANALYST, CALYON SECURITIES: My question is around how retailers are behaving and whether you see any differences -- and I'm sure you do, but from the US to Western Europe and then, obviously, in the developing markets. Are you seeing some changes in behavior, maybe starting with Wal-Mart?

BOB MCDONALD: As you can imagine, I've met with most of the major retailers recently. I think it's a very encouraging environment. The industry is moving to something we call new ways of working together. It's supported by people like Mike Duke at Wal-Mart, people like Lars Olofsson at Carrefour, Sir Terry Leahy at Tesco and all of our other partners around the world, which for the first time retailers and manufacturers are going to work together focused on delighting the consumer.

Previously, there was a lot of antagonistic behavior between retailers and manufacturers, so I'm actually encouraged that the new consumer goods forum, which I'm obviously part of, and I helped sponsor the operational excellence group, is focused on new ways of working together where retailers and manufacturers can work together to help reduce cost, provide better value and delight consumers who shop in retail stores.

OPERATOR: Thank you for your participation in today's conference. This concludes the presentation, and you may now disconnect. Good day.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
prgml : The Procter & Gamble Company
   IN
ihair : Hair Care Products | i258 : Cosmetics/Toiletries | icnp : Consumer Products | ipcare : Personal Care Products/Appliances
   NS
cbrand : Branding | c151 : Earnings | gcon : Consumer Affairs | c11 : Plans/Strategy | c314 : Pricing | csched : Announcements of News Conferences/Calls | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | c31 : Marketing | c315 : Conferences/Exhibitions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | glife : Living/Lifestyle | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | uk : United Kingdom | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020100211e61s0012y
  


 HD
 Q1  2010  Procter  & Gamble Company Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
9,238 words
   PD
29 October 2009
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©009 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
OPERATOR: Good morning and welcome to Procter & Gamble's quarter end conference call. Today's discussions will include a number of forward-looking statements. If you will refer to P&G's most recent 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K reports, you will see a discussion of factors that could cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from these projections. As required by Regulation G, P&G needs to make you aware that during the call, the Company will make a number of references to non-GAAP and other financial measures. Management believes these measures provide investors valuable information on the underlying growth trends of the business.

   TD
Organic refers to reported results excluding the impacts of acquisitions and divestitures and foreign exchange, where applicable. Free cash flow represents operating cash flow less capital expenditures. Free cash flow productivity is the ratio of free cash flow to net earnings excluding the gain on the sale of Actonel in Japan. Core EPS refers to earnings per share from continuing operations excluding incremental restructuring charges incurred to offset the dilutive impact of the Folgers divestiture and fiscal 2009. P&G has posted on its website, www.PG.com, a full reconciliation of non-GAAP and other financial measures.

Now I will turn the call over to P&G's Chief Financial Officer, Jon Moeller. Please proceed, sir.

JON MOELLER, VP & CFO, PROCTER & GAMBLE COMPANY: Thanks and good morning, everyone. Bob McDonald and Teri List join me this morning. I will begin today's call with a summary of first-quarter results. Teri will cover business highlights by operating segment. I'll provide guidance at the end of the call; and then Bob, Teri and I will take questions after our prepared remarks. Following the call, Teri, [Mark Ursig], John Chevalier and I will be available to provide additional perspective as needed.

Last year, as you know, we prioritized protecting the long-term structural economics of our business. With this achieved, we are now developing and executing plans to positively grow value share. We're increasing consumer value behind one of the strongest innovation programs in several years. We are expanding our product portfolio vertically, horizontally and into more geographic white space than ever before.

To fund this, we are accelerating productivity, driving simplification and steadfastly maintaining our focus on cost and cash discipline. Our objective is to accelerate growth and profitably grow value share by serving more consumers in more parts of the world more completely.

July-September results are very encouraging. Organic volume improved sequentially. All-in sales, organic sales and earnings per share each came in well ahead of the top end of our guidance ranges.

Organic volume was down 2%, a 2-point improvement versus last quarter. Volume strengthened throughout the quarter with September being an all-time record shipment month and ahead of year-ago. Volume trends are negatively impacted by a very strong base period. In North America the base period included retailer volume pull-forward, head of last fall's commodity-based price increases. In developing markets, and Central and Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa, in particular, the base period included shipment trends that were not yet impacted by the significant foreign exchange-driven pricing we took last year.

For perspective, Central and Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa accounted for over half of the Company's year-on-year July-September quarterly volume decline. We fully expect volume growth in future quarters as we lap easier base periods, roll out the balance of our innovation plan, which is back-half skewed, continue to strengthen our media plans and make targeted price adjustments where needed.

Organic sales growth was up 2% versus a guidance range of flat to down 3%. Progress was broad-based with all reportable segments either growing organic sales or showing sequential organic sales improvement. Pricing added 3% to sales. Fiscal 2009 price increases, which have not yet fully annualized, were responsible for the increase. Favorable geographic mix increased sales 1%.

Foreign exchange had a negative impact of 7 points, resulting in all-in sales being down 6%. All-in sales were well ahead of guidance, which anticipated a decline of 7% to 10%. All-in GAAP earnings per share were $1.06, $0.06 per share above the high end of our guidance range and 3% above year ago. As I already mentioned, top-line organic sales growth was ahead of expectations and was largely responsible for our overdelivery on the bottom line.

Core earnings per share, which on the quarter adjust for the gain of the sale of our Actonel business in Japan, the operating earnings of the pharmaceutical business generated during the first quarter and base period Folgers impacts, were $0.95 per share, in line with year-ago.

Gross margin was up 290 basis points, primarily due to lower commodity costs and the full benefit of last fall's commodity-based pricing actions. Gross margin also benefited from last year's transaction-based foreign exchange pricing in developing markets, which has not yet annualized.

Operating margin increased 160 basis points as higher gross margin was partially offset by higher SG&A. SG&A was up by 130 basis points due to negative foreign currency transaction impacts. The tax rate on the quarter was 27.7%, about in line with year-ago.

We had our strongest cash quarter ever. With free cash flow of $4 billion, free cash flow productivity was 120%, well ahead of our 90% free cash flow productivity target.

So we are encouraged by the above-target July-September quarter. As we look to improve sequentially from here, we'll continue to focus on serving consumers and their quest for value, value that is delivered by affordable price points, by product performance and the overall experience with our brands. To do this, we are accelerating and leveraging our strong innovation program to expand our portfolio vertically and horizontally. We are driving performance-based value messaging and, where necessary, we are refining pricing to remain competitive.

Early results from our fiscal year innovation program are encouraging. Laundry additives is off to a strong start. Tide Stain Release and Ariel Professional have been launched in 15 markets, including the US and Canada, Germany, Italy, Spain and Turkey. In the United States shares are already in excess of 10%. We plan to launch into 18 additional markets over the next 18 months.

Bounce Dryer Bar is exceeding expectations, having already captured 7% of the fabric sheet segment in North America. Excel Gel has achieved a 9% value share in our lead market, the United Kingdom, and has been expanded to Germany, France, Spain, Austria, Switzerland, Belgium, Holland, Portugal and Greece. Fairy Auto Dishwashing detergent in Western Europe is gaining share with past three months value shares across the nine markets where it was launched averaging 17%. In Sweden, one of our lead markets, value share is exceeding 30%.

We are currently expanding our new premium line, Fairy Platinum, to additional markets.

Three additional SK-II anti-aging products -- a moisturizing cream, a facial mask and a foundation -- were launched during the July-September quarter across Japan, Korea, greater China, Singapore and Malaysia. Since launch these three SKUs have grown our total SK-II anti-aging business by nearly 30%. Olay Pro-X, which was launched in North America six months ago, is now being launched into China. Olay Pro-X is on pace to generate year one retail sales of nearly $100 million.

One last example that demonstrates the strength of our premium innovation program is our new gastrointestinal product, Align. This new brand, with its proprietary and patented bacterial strain, already accounts for one quarter of the probiotics supplement market. It's the number one brand recommended by gastroenterologists, the line is building share and has significant upside potential.

We are also improving consumer value by leveraging cost innovation in order to launch more value-tiered products. Pampers is a great example. The value share of Pampers in Germany remains strong behind last year's introduction of the value-tier offering, Pampers Simply Dry. Pampers' past four-week value shares remain above 60% with Pampers Simply Dry value share of 4%.

In June 2009 we launched Pampers Simply Dry into the United Kingdom, which is also off to a strong start. Pampers value shares in the UK are nearly 60% with Pampers Simply Dry having already achieved a value share of about 5%. Pampers Simply Dry began shipping in France, Greece, Austria and Switzerland this quarter and will begin shipments in Spain in the October-December quarter.

The recent launch of Naturella into Saudi Arabia is over-delivering versus expectations. Shipments are at 20% above the going-in forecast. Naturella is now sold in nearly 30 markets around the world. Naturella, along with other value-tier offerings, will be expanded to additional markets later this fiscal year.

Crest Pro-Health is another example of cost innovation. Through work led by scientists in our Beijing Technical Center, we have been able to dramatically reduce the cost of the Pro-Health formula. This is enabling eventual expansion at affordable prices in all dentifrice markets. As you know, we just launched Pro-Health formula in the pharmacy channel under the Oral-B brand in Brazil. Brazilian consumers now have a choice between four distinct price tiers of Oral-B paste. Market shares continue to exceed expectations.

We're also seeing important halo effect across our oral care business nationally in Brazil. Prior to launching Oral-B paste, we were tied for value share leadership in the brush segment. Following the paste launch, P&G's brush value share has risen to nearly 6 points ahead of the next competitor.

We continue to work to ensure consumers clearly understand the superior performance our products provide across all price tiers. All top brands now have qualified performance-based value messaging on air. We continue to benefit from attractive media rates and our increasing media delivery. During the July-September quarter media delivery was up both sequentially and versus year-ago.

Finally, we continue to make targeted price adjustments were value gaps grew too wide between our products and those of our competitors. Price adjustments have been made in North American laundry, North American tissue-towel and several Eastern European markets. Where price adjustments have been made, the business has responded positively. Most of the price adjustments we plan to make are now behind us with about 10% of the portfolio having been impacted.

The actions we have taken and the incremental investments we have made to accelerate and leverage our robust innovation program, drive performance-based value messaging and refine pricing as appropriate have allowed us to achieve organic sales growth in the quarter ahead of our original plan. There is still, however, work to be done. Volume needs to grow and we have to make more progress to restore share growth in some categories. Plans have been strengthened across each of our focus areas since we originally provided guidance for fiscal 2010. The benefits for our investment program will build sequentially throughout the year as the largest portion of our innovation program comes to market in the back half.

With that, let me turn the call over to Teri.

TERI LIST, SVP, TREASURER, PROCTER & GAMBLE COMPANY: Just a couple of things. First, I wanted to clarify that our core EPS was $0.97, about in line with a year ago. And I also wanted to briefly comment on two overarching themes that you will see in the review of our segment results. First, you will see that foreign exchange negatively impacted sales and earnings across all of the business segments. Additionally, all the segments imported organic volume at or below year-ago. Both of these are impacts that should dissipate going forward. Foreign exchange, based on current rates, will reverse and become a help. And as John mentioned earlier, our organic volume results were heavily affected by two markets. First, US results were impacted by strong shipments in the base period, ahead of price increases we took last fall. Additionally, unit volume in the Central and Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa region was down nearly 10% following significant price increases taken last fiscal.

Both of these items are primarily base period issues versus ongoing structural challenges. As highlighted earlier, the fact that organic volume was an all-time record in September suggests we are already moving past some of these issues, and we expect volume growth in October-December quarter.

Moving to the segment results and starting with Beauty, organic sales increased 2%. Pricing and mix added 4% to sales growth, which more than offset a 1% decline in organic volume. While organic volume was down, this was several points better than initially expected, due mainly to improvement in businesses such as retail hair care, and skin care.

In the retail hair care business, global unit volume was up low-single digits, led by the Pantene and Head & Shoulders brands. Pantene shipments were up mid-single digits, driven by growth in North America, Western Europe and Asia. Head & Shoulders global volume was also up mid-singles on a global basis with strong growth in Western Europe, Latin America and Asia. Both brands were down double digits in the CEEMEA region.

In global skin care value share is up nearly a point to more than 11%, and US all-outlet value share of facial moisturizers is up 5 points to over 45%. The strong US share progress is due to the success of the Olay Pro-X line, which we introduced in January. Retail skin care organic volume was down a point versus prior year, primarily due to a strong base period in the US, ahead of price increases that went into effect last fall.

Prestige skin care organic volume was up high teens, driven by market share gains for the SK-II brand behind recent anti-aging innovations. Organic volume in both the professional salon and prestige fragrance businesses was down high-single digits as these businesses continued to be affected by the global economic downturn.

In the Grooming segment, market contraction and soft market shares were the primary drivers of a 2% decline in organic sales. Shipments for the segment were down 8%, while pricing improved sales by 6%. The Braun business continue to be affected by weak category demand in appliances, with shipments down low teens. Male personal care volume was off high-single digits, due mainly to increased competitive promotional activity in the shave preps category. And male blades and razors, shipments declined high-single digits as solid growth of the Fusion brand was more than offset by declines on legacy systems. These declines were most pronounced in the CEEMEA region, where the Mach III brand was down 40%, due mainly to significant price increases last fiscal. The Fusion brand continues to build value share in the US, up 3 points to nearly 30% of the male blades and razors category, and on a global basis Fusion value share is up 2 points to over 17%.

Moving to Health Care, organic sales were up 4%, driven by pricing and product mix, as organic volume was about in line with prior-year levels. Organic volume grew 2% in developed markets, representing a 9-point sequential improvement from the 7% decline reported in the June quarter.

In oral care, global volume was equal to the prior year as strong growth in Western Europe and Latin America was offset by declines in the CEEMEA and Asia regions. In Western Europe, Oral-B shipments were up double digits with Crest also delivering strong growth. P&G is now the oral care market share leader in the region.

In Brazil, Oral-B volume was up nearly 20% behind strong toothbrush market share growth and the launch of Oral-B toothpaste in the pharmacy channel. As Jon indicated, Oral-B has expanded its toothpaste market share leadership in Brazil to nearly 6 points versus the nearest competitor.

Feminine care volume declined slightly on a global basis due to double-digit decline in the CEEMEA region. The Always brand delivered high single-digit unit growth in Western Europe and mid-singles growth in Asia. In the US, Always shipments were in line with prior year despite modest category contraction. Always' market-leading all-outlet value share of the US feminine pad market was up more than a point to 59%, led by the continued growth of Always Infinity. Infinity has now been in the US market for a year and has grown to 7% value share.

Global fem care value shares are down nearly 1 point, driven primarily by business softness resulting from last year's pricing actions across CEEMEA.

In personal health care, the home diagnostics business grew volume double digits, and Prilosec OTC volume increased to mid-single digits behind strong merchandising programs. Vicks shipments were in line with prior-year levels as strong unit volume growth in North America, Asia and Latin America was offset by a double-digit decline in the CEEMEA region. The early and intense flu season has helped to drive the US respiratory care category up by nearly 7 points versus prior year.

In the Snacks and Pet Care segment, organic sales were down 3%, driven by a 10% volume decline which was partially offset by 7 points of pricing and mix benefits. Snacks volume declined high teens due to lower merchandising support following the Pringles Super Stack cannery stage, which included a price increase, as well as comparison to a base period that included strong merchandising support.

Pet Care delivered strong organic sales growth behind higher pricing that more than offset a modest volume decline. The strength of Iams Proactive Health, Iams Premium Protection and Eukanuba Naturally Wild initiatives have largely offset the impact of market contraction in the premium segment of the pet nutrition category.

In the Fabric and Home Care segments, organic sales were up 2% as a 2% decline in organic volume was more than offset by a 4% net benefit from pricing and mix. Fabric care shipments were down modestly, driven by high single-digit declines in the North America and CEEMEA regions. North America results were heavily affected by a strong base period, driven by the timing of price increases taken last year and CEMEA continues to be affected by the significant price increases taken last fiscal to offset the impact of foreign exchange rate changes.

Western Europe volume was up mid-single digits, driven by strong merchandising programs on detergents and fabric enhancers. P&G's all-outlet value share declined in the US laundry detergent market has narrowed to just over a point as the business has now lapped the list price increases taken last September and recent targeted value corrections are making an impact in the market.

Home care shipments were up mid-single digits behind solid growth in all geographic regions. The Febreze brand grew global volume mid-teens, led by nearly 20% growth in North America behind the initial success of the Home Collections line of air fresheners and home decor innovations. Febreze all-outlet value share of the US instant action air care market is up more than 4 percentage points to 28%. The Dawn and Fairy global dish care franchise grew volume high-single digits behind the Fairy Platinum Action Pack launch in Western Europe.

In the US the market-leading Dawn brand grew all outlet value share by about half a point to 44%.

Battery shipments were down mid-single digits, due mainly to a 10% market size contraction in the US and market share challenges in both developed and developing markets. While the business continues to expect near-term pressure in the disposable power segment, we are encouraged by our recent Duracell Smart Power innovations in the fast-growing rechargeable segment. The Smart Power line includes the myGrid device recharger and instant power supplies for devices such as BlackBerry's, iPods and cell phones.

In Baby Care and Family Care we delivered organic sales up 1%. Volume was down 1% but was more than offset by positive pricing. Global baby care shipments were up low-single digits, led by high single-digit growth in Western Europe behind the Pampers Simply Dry value tier expansion. Pampers diaper value share in Western Europe was up nearly a point to 54% including a 2.5-point advance in the UK to nearly 60% of the market. Pampers shipments in the UK were up more than 30%, driven by the Simply Dry launch.

In India, Pampers shipments were up more than 90%, driven by market expansion and share growth, and in the Philippines Pampers volume was up more than 20% following consumer value corrections.

In the US P&G's all-outlet value share of diapers was up more than 0.5 points to nearly 38% with both the Pampers and Luvs brands growing market share.

Family care shipments were down mid-single digits, due primarily to a strong base period, driven by trade inventory builds ahead of price increases taken last year and timing of merchandising events. US all-outlet value share for Charmin was down by about 1 point to 27%, and Bounty value share was in line with year-ago levels at nearly 46%.

That concludes the business segment review, and I'll hand the call back to Jon.

JON MOELLER: Thanks, Teri. At the back to school conference last month we indicated organic sales would reach an inflection point during the second quarter of fiscal 2010. This inflection point has occurred a quarter earlier than originally anticipated.

We continue to expect stronger top-line results for the remainder of the year for two reasons. First and very transparently, the comparisons get easier. Second, many of our most important innovations don't ship until the second half of the year, so there will be a sequential strengthening of our plans.

Earnings per share will be somewhat lumpy by quarter. October-December all-in earnings will be down versus year ago. This is because the sale of the pharmaceutical business will generate a one-time gain that is significantly less than the Folgers one-time gain, which is in the base period. October-December core earnings per share will be up because commodity prices will be down sharply versus year ago. In addition, October-December earnings comparisons will benefit from last year's foreign exchange-related pricing, which won't begin annualizing until the third quarter.

Second-half earnings will be impacted by moderating commodity benefits, the annualizing of last year's pricing actions and support behind our strategic investments, which are generally back-half loaded. Marketing support will have a particularly large impact on Q4, which compares to a base period which was very light on innovation.

With that background, let me move to guidance for fiscal 2010 and the October-December quarter.

For the fiscal year we expect organic sales growth of 2% to 4%. This is an increase of 1 percentage point versus our previous guidance range of 1% to 3%. The increase is driven by the July-September over-deliveries and the slight improvement in underlying market growth. We now expect full-year market growth of 1% to 2%. This is up 1 point versus prior estimates, but still well below historical levels.

Foreign exchange, based on current spot rates, should positively impact sales by 1% to 2%, resulting in all-in sales of 3% and 6%. This is up several points ahead of our prior guidance range of 1% to 3%. We are raising the bottom end of our GAAP earnings per share guidance range by $0.03 to $4.02 per share. This reflects the slightly higher top-line growth projection. We are maintaining the high end of our guidance range at $4.12 per share. We feel this is prudent for several reasons. It's still very early in the fiscal year, commodities are beginning to rise again, foreign exchange markets remain volatile and while there has been some modest improvement it's not entirely clear what level of global market growth will be sustained.

Core earnings per share are expected to be $3.47 to $3.59 per share, in line with to up 3% versus year-ago.

Turning to October-December, we expect organic sales growth of 2% to 5%. The midpoint of this range represents solid sequential improvement from the inflection point we achieved during July-September. With global market growth rates assumed to be up 1% to 2% our guidance range suggests value share growth during the October-December quarter. All-in sales inclusive of a 1- to 2-point benefit from foreign exchange are expected to be up 3% to 7%. All-in GAAP earnings per share are expected to be $1.36 to $1.44 per share. This includes a one-time gain of approximately $0.43 per share from the divestiture of the pharmaceuticals business, which is progressing as planned towards a targeted close date of October 30; that's tomorrow, 2009. The final gain on this transaction will be provided in January with our December quarter results.

Core earnings per share are expected to be $0.91 to $1.00 per share. This is up 1% to 11% versus a year-ago base period which included high commodity costs.

We expect strong cash flow results to continue. Our priorities for cash utilization have not changed. Our first priority is to maintain our AA-minus credit rating. This currently enables us to achieve very attractive financing rates.

We have refinanced $6 billion of $10.5 billion of bonds coming due this fiscal at historically low rates, including a $1 billion two-year fixed rate bond we issued during the first quarter with a coupon of only 1.35%. At that time this was the lowest US dollar coupon on a two-year fixed rate corporate bond by any issuer in recorded history. As the remaining bonds mature, we expect to continue to take advantage of historically low interest rates, lowering interest expense for the second straight year.

Our second priority for cash usage is to fund business growth opportunities. This includes investments in manufacturing capacity, which we have maintained throughout the financial crisis, and includes investment behind innovation and portfolio expansion. It also includes acquisitions that enable us to further strengthen our strategic position and generate attractive returns for shareholders.

Our third priority for cash is maintaining a healthy dividend. P&G has increased its dividend for 53 consecutive years at a compound annual rate of 9.5% and has paid a dividend every year since being incorporated in 1890. After the dividend, remaining cash is targeted for share repurchase. Share repurchase will resume during the October-December quarter. We are targeting a meaningful level of share repurchase for the year, but the actual amount will likely be below the $8 billion annual threshold we established prior to the global economic crisis.

In closing, the actions we've taken and the incremental investments we're making to leverage our strong innovation program, drive performance-based value messaging and refine value equations as appropriate have allowed us to achieve organic sales growth a full quarter ahead of our original plan. We are very pleased with this progress but acknowledge there is more work ahead of us. We will continue to accelerate productivity, drive simplification and manage cost and cash with discipline in order to support plans to profitably grow value share by serving more consumers in more parts of the world more completely.

Bob, Teri and I would now like to open up the call for questions.

OPERATOR: (Operator instructions) Nik Modi, UBS.

NIK MODI, ANALYST, UBS: I just wanted to get some perspective on the mood in psychology within the Company. I say that because, having experienced my own rather substantial turnaround at UBS over the past few months, I can really start to appreciate when internal psychology turns from one of sheltering and hiding to one proactively driving the business. So any thoughts there would really be appreciated.

BOB MCDONALD, PRESIDENT & CEO, PROCTER & GAMBLE COMPANY: Nik, this is Bob. I think the headline of that is that we were all pleased that we're able to move the inflection point of growth a quarter forward from our estimates that we provided at the back to school conference. But we also realize that there's more work to do. But I can tell you that the attitude, the morale is up, that we enjoy growth and that we enjoy touching and improving more lives around the world with our products and services.

OPERATOR: Bill Schmitz, Deutsche Bank.

BILL SCHMITZ, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Can you just tell us -- maybe I missed it on the prepared comments -- but what the volume organic sales growth mix was between developing and emerging and developed's; and then also, what percentage of the portfolio is considered premium versus value/mid tier?

JON MOELLER: Well, in terms of the developing versus developed question, from a sales standpoint developing grew significantly ahead of developed, which is not unexpected, given the price increases we took last year that haven't fully annualized. As you'd expect, that has a negative impact on volume, so volume growth in developing markets was somewhat below developed markets.

OPERATOR: Lauren Lieberman, Barclays Capital.

RYAN BENNETT, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: This is actually [Ryan Bennett] sitting in for Lauren today. Clearly, some businesses have been hit harder than others during the recession, and I guess Central and Eastern Europe was one example highlighted today. But there are certainly some big categories that have been hit harder, too, like fragrance, batteries, (inaudible), Braun appliances that altogether are probably 10% of sales or maybe even more.

So if they've been down high-single to low-double digits, maybe they've been a point or a point-and-a-half drag to total Company sales versus the last year. My question is, now that we are beginning to anniversary when the recession hit and destocking began, how do we think about the slope of recovery in those more cyclical businesses? Are we at a point maybe where those businesses will be flattish and [a longer] (inaudible) as you drag to the top line?

BOB MCDONALD: I think you were right in separating the two effects because I think they are very different. On one hand, if you take the geographic effect, it's really an issue of chronology or timing. It's the fact that the price increases we took were later and those geographies and also were more substantial in those geographies because of the devaluations. And so, as we talked, a lot of the lack of growth this quarter was in our senior region where, for example in Russia, we had to take at least four price increases -- I'm generalizing now across all of our categories -- at least four price increases throughout the year, the latest being in the fourth fiscal quarter, AMJ.

So it's going to take a while to work those increases through and to work through their year-on-year comparison effect. So that's more chronology, but we see the volume in these regions coming back relatively quickly.

The other point you raised is one that's more dedicated to category, focused on category. And basically, the more discretionary a category, the longer it's going to take that category to return to the kind of growth rates that we may have had before the recession. Now, you have to mitigate that comment with our innovation program because what we know is, if we innovate, we can affect the market growth of the category. And certainly, all the Proctor & Gamble people around the world don't take macroeconomics as a given. We try to do everything we can to spur market growth, since it helps our consumers, it helps our retail partners by increasing their growth and obviously helps us. So we are working very hard to get that market growth going.

JON MOELLER: But clearly, Ryan, as we annualize the big crisis quarters, the year-on-year impact of the drag from the discretionary businesses will subside and that should be a source of relative momentum going forward.

OPERATOR: John Faucher, JP Morgan.

JOHN FAUCHER, ANALYST, JP MORGAN: In terms of looking at the marketing spend going forward, you talked a little bit about having a little more focus in the back half of the year. Can you talk about what you're seeing from a competitive standpoint? You guys had brought earnings expectations down in terms of spending more money back into the business. Are you seeing your competitors doing the same, or do you think your share of voice is moving up substantially at this point?

BOB MCDONALD: Because we -- because the rates of advertising spend have been reduced due to the economic weakness, we now see that we are able to deliver more impressions for the same amount of money. And because our innovation program is stronger this year, we talked about 30% more significant innovations this year than last year, the marketing spend tends to follow the innovations as we work to generate trial on those innovations.

That's also why we said that the marketing spend in the last fiscal quarter for us in AMJ will be higher than it was year-ago because, as we said, our innovation program is largely back-half loaded. So I don't want to give the impression that we're out there spending to simply reduce prices on existing items. We are out there supporting an innovation program which is one of the strongest we've ever had.

Relative to the competition, frankly, we have not -- we obviously track consumer value by category, by country and we have not seen tremendous increases in spending by competitors. And we think that that's right; we think that we should all compete for the consumer based on innovation and the value of those innovations.

OPERATOR: Chris Ferrara, Banc of America.

CHRIS FERRARA, ANALYST, BANC OF AMERICA: Just wanted to get a sense -- so like the reported sales growth rate that you guys -- on the guidance for fiscal '10 is going up by almost 3 points, like $2 billion, $2.5 billion in sales -- and Jon, I get that you are trying to be more cautious around FX and commodities. But it seems like the environment is less volatile than it was before and it seems like you guys think the market is growing faster. So I just want to try to get a little better understanding and a little more color on why you would only raise the low end of EPS by $0.03, leave the high end, despite this pretty sizable, especially for you guys, really a huge increase in reported sales expectations.

JON MOELLER: Well, I think the big question here is what happens to market growth and how sustainable is it. And you can take both sides of the argument. One of the things that's tempering our enthusiasm is unemployment, which hasn't shown signs of moderating yet. And obviously, to the extent that market growth exceeds our very modest expectations going forward, there should be upside. But it's just too early to count on that.

In terms of not raising the top end of the guidance, that does reflect continuing volatility that we do see. Also it reflects continued strengthening of our plans, as I indicated, behind the back-half innovations. So hopefully that helps. And we can talk it more later, if you're so inclined.

OPERATOR: Ali Dhibadj, Bernstein.

ALI DHIBADJ, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & COMPANY, INC.: Wondering if you could talk a little bit more, please, about how the strategies of going a little bit lower end in some of your products with some of the innovation, reducing some prices and getting into the emerging markets won't actually end up being margin dilutive in the future. I guess I can kind of understand for fiscal year '10, with some of the macro help like foreign exchange and commodities, and media spend and some of the compares that you had, tougher compares that you had, those things helped. But in a more normalized environment like perhaps fiscal year '11 or more broadly, I guess I'm not sure about how margins aren't more challenged without a bigger focus on cost cutting internally or bigger portfolio changes now.

I guess just a little bit in the context of the previous question, where margins this quarter were great, EPS guidance would suggest that your peak margins, for at least this year -- but so, short-term and long-term, I'm trying to figure out whether it's misguided, I guess, to think about what we just saw in terms of operating margins as peak and how to think about margin progression going forward, longer-term.

BOB MCDONALD: Let me start and talk about strategy, and then Jon can talk about the impact on margins.

As we said, our strategy is to touch and improve more consumer lives in more parts of the world more completely. And we talked about a number of innovations we've brought to market most recently. Some of them, as you probably have pointed out -- properly have pointed out -- have been extending our portfolio down in terms of price. But others, and I'm talking about Pampers there, for example, in Western Europe, which we talked about. But others, importantly, have been extending our portfolio up. We talked about new anti-aging items in Asia on Olay, we talked about Olay Professional. And then obviously has a positive impact on margins, not just a negative impact on margins.

We are going to continue to expand more of our categories into more countries around the world. And, while you would think that that might be margin dilutive, remember what we talked about, for example, in India, where our diaper business has grown 90%. And the reason it's grown that much is because we are competing against cloth or no diaper at all, not against some competitor which requires us to spend more money.

So I think, as you look at the entire portfolio of activity, what we are about is growth. And we are focused on growth. We don't have a margin goal, as such, as we've said, but we are focused on growth. And so we're going to continue to grow the top line and the bottom line, consistent with the guidance that we've given.

JON MOELLER: It might be counterintuitive, but it's not necessary that the introduction of more value-tier offerings is -- it's not inherently margin dilutive. And let me explain that.

First, if you look at categories where we have a strong value-tier position -- baby care with Luvs, feminine care with Naturella, tissue towel with Charmin and Bounty Basics -- these are businesses with very attractive margins that have continued to build margin sequentially year on year.

Second, we have built in activity systems that support lower prices on value-tier offerings, and we try to create, try to attract new consumers. So the price isn't different, isolation, but also the product and the performance promise are different. And as we attract new consumers into the franchise, we build scale, which reduces cost and can have a positive impact on margin.

Last, the existence of value-tier offerings often gives us additional pricing flexibility behind innovation on the premium end of the portfolio so that, while the value tier offering has a lower margin, the total proposition is margin accretive.

Last point on operating margin sequence -- this quarter will likely be a high in terms of year-on-year progress on margin. That's really driven primarily by the base period dynamics and the big year-on-year commodity helps that we have in the current quarter.

BOB MCDONALD: I would also add, as we talked at the back to school conference, one of our how to win strategies is taking advantage of our scale, is simplifying the organization and its work and is executing with excellence. And as we do those things, we will generate cash and margin accretion. And we are working very hard, the entire organization is working very hard to reduce the hierarchy, to improve our business processes, to find savings in ways that we can operate more efficiently that will allow us to invest more on growth. And so that's a big part of the work that we are doing.

OPERATOR: Joe Altobello, Oppenheimer.

JOE ALTOBELLO, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER: I was hoping to squeeze in two, this morning. First, just wanted to follow up on the developing markets topic for a second. It seems like this has always been a big focus for you guys, obviously. But with the slowdown in the developed world, it seems like it has taken on a little more urgency. Has there been a major change in your strategy in terms of how you penetrate those markets, or is it just basically doing more of what you have been doing in the past?

And then, secondly, on the innovation front you talk about second half, a lot of new products coming to market. To the extent you can, could you give us a sense of where those will be and what they are?

BOB MCDONALD: Relative to the developing market, when A.G. took over as CEO back in '99-2000, we had a strategy of returning focus to growing in developing markets. We have since refined that strategy to talk more specifically about underserved or unserved consumers around the world because there are many unserved consumers in places like China and India. But there are also underserved consumers like Hispanics or African-Americans in North America.

We put together very detailed plans about how we are going to reach those consumers, whether it's taking the number of categories in China from the current 12 today that lead to $3 per head per year spending on P&G products to the roughly 25 categories we have in United States. We have plans, we have them sequenced, we're getting the consumer knowledge, we're building the capacity in order to do that.

That's what we mean when we say touch and improve more consumer lives, more parts of the world, more completely. And so we have very detailed plans by market, by category, to enter these markets as well as to develop a vertical portfolio and horizontal portfolio in all of the markets. So in the end, at the end point of that vision, the whole world should look more like our most developed markets, like the United States where the average consumer spends $100 a year on Procter & Gamble products.

So I think what I would say is it's an evolution. It's very, very deliberate. And we've got the plans in place, and that's what this investment year is about.

Relative to the second half, Jon and I really can't disclose the innovations that we are bringing to market that we haven't brought to market yet. That would enable our competition. However, we have agreed that as soon as we bring them to market, we will let you know. And we will explain to you how it fits into our overall strategy.

OPERATOR: Victoria Collins, Atlantic Equities.

VICTORIA COLLINS, ANALYST, ATLANTIC EQUITIES: I wonder if we could turn to talk about the Beauty division a little bit, given the good organic growth that's come out despite the high comp base. I wonder if you could say a little bit more about how you think this has come around, whether we are looking at a market pickup in this more discretionary area, or perhaps you reacted with new ranges or targeted advertising spend to get a little bit of pickup in the hair care and skin care segments.

BOB MCDONALD: I think the answer is really that we have -- had a very strong innovation program in Beauty. You saw that in the results of the hair care segment. You saw that also as we talked about the entry of new moisturizing items in Asia. You also saw that when we talked about the introduction of Pro-X and its impact in many markets of the world.

We also outlined the specific countries we entered with many of these things. And as you can see, we didn't enter every country of the world simultaneously. So we have a lot of growth runway ahead of us in expanding these items more broadly.

As we also said, our innovation program gets stronger sequentially through the years. So I think you are going to see even greater innovations from our Beauty program moving through the sequential quarters of the year.

OPERATOR: Andrew Sawyer, Goldman Sachs.

ANDREW SAWYER, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Bob, kind of a philosophical question for you guys. With respect to spend back, and clearly your organic sales and the gross profitability is coming in better than expected, but the implication you guys are doing is that you're going to spend more back against the innovation pipeline. As we think about both this year and even looking into fiscal 2011, at what -- are you going to continue to spend back until we see organic sales get back to the mid-single digit range? Or is there something that philosophically you will continue to do, to drive and really emphasize top-line growth, since that seems to be the direction you guys are really emphasizing at this point?

BOB MCDONALD: I don't really like the term spend back because it sounds like there's some kind of price competition to buy the consumers' willingness to use our products. I would rather think about it as supporting the innovations that we put in the market so that we properly communicate their differential competitive advantage versus other brands or products, and also so that we get the trial rates that we need on those products so that consumers actually use them.

So in terms of marketing spend, it could be something like -- it could be something like sampling or it could be something like a multi-brand commercial innovation. Or, it could be something like our Pampers UNICEF program, where we support the eradication of neonatal tetanus. Those are the kinds of things that we are investing in, in terms of marketing spend. It's not -- as Jon said, if you look at the price corrections we've taken, it's only in 10% of the category-country combinations of our business. And that's really not what we're about.

What we are about is touching and improving lives through our innovation.

JON MOELLER: And obviously, given the strong innovation program we have for the full fiscal year and particularly in the back half, it's appropriate for us to increase the level of investment. We've been very transparent since back last May that that's what we are going to be doing, for the reasons that Bob described. I don't want, though, people to be confused about our understanding of our long-term need to generate earnings growth as well as sales growth. We are very cognizant on delivering the total shareholder return that investors will find attractive.

BOB MCDONALD: And as we said in the back to school conference, our focus this fiscal year is profitable share growth. And I underline profitable share growth.

OPERATOR: Jason Gere, RBC Capital Markets.

JASON GERE, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: I just wanted to talk to you about a couple of categories that you guys mentioned, some market contraction in North America. Let's talk about laundry, battery and razors and blades. Can you maybe put a little more color behind that? And as we look ahead in terms of the planogram resets, your comfort level, with the actions that you've been taking to grow these businesses, I was just wondering if you could put a little more color around that.

BOB MCDONALD: Let me start with the second point first. We are working with many retailers, not just in North America but around the world, as they pursue more efficient assortments in their store. We would agree that most stores have too many SKUs, they are too crowded and they are hard for our consumers to shop. And consumers have reported to us that the more SKUs that are available, the less choice they believe they have because they can't find their way through them.

So we are supporting the efforts of retailers around the world who are looking for more efficient assortment. And as you may understand, that a more efficient assortment in the store actually benefits the leading brands. So we are obviously focused on making sure all of our brands are strong, that they are considered leading brands, that they fall above the red line any retailer might draw and that they have adequate shelf space on the shelf in order to meet the traffic that the retailer may have.

It's probably not surprising to you, but our biggest issue isn't losing shelf space on our brands because of their slow movement. Our biggest issue is having enough shelf capacity for things like weekend traffic and weekend sales so that the retailer never has them out of stock. And oftentimes, that out of stock occurs even with the product in the back room. So we're working very hard with retailers to make sure we have the right capacity on the shelf and to make sure we get the right products on the shelf to support shopping at all times.

Relative to razors and blades and laundry and category growth or decline, I think largely what you are seeing can also be considered somewhat of a base period phenomenon. The markets have been extremely volatile month to month and week to week and oftentimes looking at year-ago comparisons get in the way of really understanding the business. We tend to look more at running rates as well as year-ago and sequential comparisons to understand them.

I don't see any dramatic falloff in market size in laundry or blades and razors that would impact our business. We are obviously working to increase market growth because that benefits our retailers and benefits us. And you may have seen some of our advertising, talking about the wear strip on a Fusion blade, to indicate when it's time to change, to talk about how shaving more frequently helps the skin and the appearance of the person and so forth.

JON MOELLER: The quarter comparisons on a couple of categories you've mentioned, Jason, are also tough, simply because a number of the steps that we've taken that we know will restore growth we are taking at the very end of the quarter. So, for example, the price reduction on Sheer in North America, while we announced it earlier, isn't effective until October. The Excel Gel initiative that we are rolling across Europe is just hitting markets and consumers as we speak.

So we've got plans in place. We understand we need to get those categories growing, and we are confident we can.

BOB MCDONALD: I think that's an important point. The fact that our volume rate picked up month-to-month throughout the quarter and that September was actually a record shipment month and above year-ago suggests that the business is strengthening, particularly when you look at that in the context of year-ago comparison for the quarter where September was somewhat inflated due to some price increases we took in the October period where retailers bought forward to some degree in September.

OPERATOR: Bill Chappell, SunTrust.

BILL CHAPPELL, ANALYST, SUNTRUST ROBINSON HUMPHREY: Just a quick follow-up on the pricing standpoint. Are pricing actions largely done in the US? And then, internationally, I remember you had to kind of raise prices more than you probably even wanted to because of currency going against you. Are you looking to scale back some of that as currency is more in your favor?

BOB MCDONALD: Bill, As you can imagine, the work on pricing is never done. We're always watching value impressions of consumers around the world vis-a-vis competition. So it's one we have to remain vigilant on. I don't think you're ever going to see another year like we saw in our last fiscal year, where we had to price so many times on so many businesses in so many countries. In my 29-year career it was certainly the most concentrated pricing we've ever taken. So I don't think we'll ever see something like that again.

And certainly, as we have tail winds in commodity costs or in currency, the pressure on pricing will not be there. And we are going to watch the value to make sure we are delivering good consumer value every day so we can grow market share profitably.

OPERATOR: We have no further questions at this time. Thank you for your participation in today's conference. This concludes the presentation. Everyone may now disconnect, and everyone have a great day.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
prgml : The Procter & Gamble Company
   IN
i258 : Cosmetics/Toiletries | icnp : Consumer Products | ipcare : Personal Care Products/Appliances
   NS
mlead : Lead Markets | cbrand : Branding | gcon : Consumer Affairs | c151 : Earnings | c11 : Plans/Strategy | c182 : Divestitures/Asset Transactions | c314 : Pricing | ntra : Transcript | c22 : New Products/Services | c15 : Performance | c18 : Ownership Changes | c31 : Marketing | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | glife : Living/Lifestyle | m14 : Commodity Markets | m142 : Metals Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mnonfr : Non-ferrous Metals | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | uk : United Kingdom | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020091112e5at0015p
  


 HD
 Q4  2009  Procter  & Gamble Company Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
12,883 words
   PD
5 August 2009
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©009 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
OPERATOR: Good morning and welcome to Procter & Gamble's fiscal year-end 2009 conference call. Today's discussion will include a number of forward-looking statements. If you will refer to P&G's most recent 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K reports, you'll see a discussion of factors that could cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from these projections.

   TD
As required by regulation G, P&G needs to make you aware that during the call the Company will make a number of references to non-GAAP and other financial measures. Management believes these measures provide investors valuable information on the underlying growth trends of the business. Organic refers to reported results excluding the impacts of acquisitions and divestitures and foreign exchange, where applicable. Free cash flow represents operating cash flow, less capital expenditures. Free cash flow productivity is the ratio of free cash flow to net earnings, excluding the gain on the sale of Folgers business. Core EPS refers to earnings per share excluding significant adjustments, tax reserves and the net impact from the sale of the Folgers business.

P&G has posted on its website, www.PG.com, a full reconciliation of non-GAAP and other financial measures.

Now I'll turn the call over to P&G's Chief Financial Officer, Jon Moeller.

JON MOELLER, VP AND CFO, PROCTER & GAMBLE COMPANY: Thanks, and good morning, everyone. Welcome to Procter & Gamble's fiscal 2009 year-end earnings call. AG Lafley, our Chairman; Bob McDonald, our Chief Executive Officer; and Teri List, our Treasurer, join me this morning. I'll begin with a summary of results, after which Teri will briefly cover business highlights by segment. AG and Bob will both comment on the business before we provide guidance. We will, of course, take questions after our prepared remarks. Following the call, Teri, [Mark Irsig], John Chevalier and I will be available to provide additional perspective, as needed.

Early in the fiscal year we just completed, we made and then remained committed to a few key choices. These choices were designed to weather the economic crisis and build the strength of the Company for the long-term with the objective of coming out of the recession an even stronger Company than when we went in. These choices, which we've shared previously, were to focus on cost and cash discipline, to protect the long-term structural economics of our business and invest for future growth. They have served us well. Against the backdrop of the worst economic environment in 50 years, we grew organic sales 2%. We grew earnings per share 17% on all-in basis, earning $4.26, $0.01 above the high end of our guidance range and $0.03 ahead of consensus.

Core earnings per share grew 8% and were up strong double digits on a constant-currency basis. Despite unprecedented cost increases and 50 basis points of Folgers restructuring, we held operating margin even with year-ago, maintaining the structural economic attractiveness of our business. We generated close to $12 billion in free cash flow. (technical difficulty) free cash flow productivity was 102%, well ahead of our 90% target. We increased our dividend 10%, marking the 119th consecutive year we have paid a dividend and the 53rd consecutive year of dividend growth. P&G's average dividend yield is higher than it has been in 20 years.

We repurchased over $6 billion in stock and retired an additional $2.5 billion as part of the reverse Morris Trust split merge with the Folgers and Smucker. Most importantly, we continued to make investments in our future, strategic investments in capacity, incremental restructuring investments, industry-leading -- by a wide margin -- investments in research and development and investments to support our brands, spending more on advertising again last year than any company in the world.

Turning to the fourth quarter, macroeconomic conditions were worse than in the prior three quarters. Global economic growth was negative. Unemployment continued to rise in the US and across the world. Market growth rates decelerated further and were negative in discretionary categories in Eastern Europe, the Middle East and China. Foreign exchange continued to significantly impact sales and profits versus year ago. These foreign exchange trends increased the cost of dollar-based commodities in local currencies, which we priced to recover in February and March.

The volume impact of these pricing moves impacted April and June. All of these trends were reflected in our going-in guidance estimates, and results came in largely as expected. Diluted earnings per share were $0.80, $0.01 above the high end of our guidance range and above consensus. Core earnings per share was up 6% and up strong double digits again on a constant-currency basis. Organic volume was down 4%, 1 point better than last quarter. Volume was impacted by the pricing taken in developing markets, by market size contraction in discretionary categories and some share loss in developed markets, where price gaps widened versus competition.

Organic sales were down 1%, 1 point below our guidance range. 4 points of volume decline and 2 points of negative mix were partially offset by 5 points of pricing. The combined price mix benefit was less than the prior quarter due to the annualizing of some price increases and targeted moves made in the fourth quarter to improve value. Foreign exchange lowered sales 9%, leaving all-in sales down 11%.

Encouragingly, gross margin was up 90 basis points, reflecting price increases, moderating commodity costs and continued cost savings. Operating margins were up 120 basis points on an all-in basis and over 200 basis points excluding Folgers restructuring costs as overhead productivity improvements and lower media rates more than offset volume deleveraging.

Cash results were very strong. We generated $3.9 billion of free cash flow and free cash flow productivity was 159%. With our structural economics in good shape, we are increasing investments in fiscal '10 to profitably grow market share. Some of the head winds we have been facing will continue through the next quarter but then begin to annualize and even reverse. The benefits of our investment program will also build sequentially as it's fully rolled out, so this year should be marked by sequential improvement.

With that, let me turn the call over to Teri.

TERI LIST, TREASURER, PROCTER & GAMBLE COMPANY: Starting with the Beauty segment, organic sales were down 3%. Organic volume was down 4% and net price mix added about 2% to sales growth. Organic volume results were particularly soft in the central and eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa region, following several rounds of pricing to recover higher input costs and the transaction impacts from foreign exchange rate changes. We also saw continued market contraction in the more discretionary elements of the beauty portfolio this quarter as professional hair care organic volume was off mid-single digits and prestige fragrances was down to low singles. Importantly, both businesses have held or have modestly grown value share for the year.

In the retail hair care business, global value share is up nearly 0.5 points to about 24%. In the US, shampoo and conditioner all outlet value share for the past three months was 30%, in line with the prior year. Personal cleansing global value share was up modestly for the quarter at 7.5%, but organic volume was down sharply, due mainly to less promotional activity in North America and China following price increases taken last fall.

Global Skin Care value share is up nearly 0.5 points to 12%. In the US, Olay Pro-X prorate continues to grow, approaching a 6% all-outlet value share on a past three months basis. In total, Olay's share of US facial moisturizers is at more than a point to 46%. Skin Care shipments were down versus prior year, primarily in developing markets, following price increases.

In Grooming, market contractions and inventory reductions continued to affect shipments, resulting in a 4% decline in organic sales. Braun continued to bear the brunt of these impacts with shipments down more than 20%, given the more discretionary nature of home and personal grooming appliance purchases. In blades and razors, the Fusion brand delivered a strong quarter with low teens increase in global shipments. The strong Fusion volume results were more than offset by shipment declines on legacy razor systems, including Mach3. Blades and Razors global value share was down about 0.5 points for the quarter due to the declines of legacy systems. Importantly, global share of Fusion was up more than 2 points.

In Health Care, organic sales were down 2% and organic volume declined 5%. In Personal Health Care, Vicks shipments were down sharply in developing markets following price increases and comparing against a strong base period that includes significant promotional events. Vicks shipments were up modestly in developed markets, and US all-outlet value share was in line with prior year at nearly 11%.

In Oral Care, volume was down due to declines on Oral B caused by market contraction in power toothbrushes and trade inventory reductions following price increases. Global shipments for the Crest brand were in line with prior-year levels, and global value share was up 0.5 points to 12.5%.

Feminine Care volume declined due mainly to the impact of trade inventory changes related to price increases in the CEEMEA and North America regions. In CEEMEA, significant price increases more than offset a double-digit decline in unit volumes. On a global basis Fem Care value share is down about 0.5 points but remained above 36%. In the US, Fem Care all-outlet value share was up modestly for the quarter at about 50%.

We continue to innovate on both the super-premium and mid-tiers in Fem Care. Always Infinity is above 6% value share in the US. Naturella, which is positioned at mid-tier price points primarily in developing markets, grew double digits this fiscal gear despite significant price increases in the second half.

For the Snacks and Pet Care segment, organic sales were down 7%, driven by over a 20% volume decline on snacks. The decline in snacks volume was driven by lower merchandising versus last year due to the Pringles can re-stage, which included pricing and a strong base period that includes several new initiatives.

Pet Care delivered solid organic sales growth behind higher pricing that more than offset a mid-single digit volume decline while Iams US value share was roughly in line with prior-year levels. Recent innovations, such as Iams Proactive Health, Iams Premium Protection and Eukanuba Naturally Wild initiatives are all at or ahead of Company expectations.

In the Fabric and Home Care segment, organic sales increased 1% as a 4% decline in organic volume was more than offset by a 5% net benefit from pricing and mix.

Fabric Care shipments were down primarily due to market contraction in developing markets in Western Europe and share softness in the US. Lower market shares were primarily driven by increased price gaps versus competitive brands, which we are addressing as appropriate.

Home Care shipments were in line with prior years, and solid growth on the Febreze, Cascade and Fairy brands was offset by a decline in Swiffer. In the US, Febreze share of the Instant Action Air Care market was up more than 3 points to nearly 25%, driven by a strong combination of innovation, trade support and marketing programs. Swiffer US value share improved more than 1 point behind product upgrades and a new marketing campaign to renew consumer interest in the category and to increase trial Swiffer starter kits.

Battery shipments were down double digits due to market size contraction and share challenges in both developed and developing markets, due mainly to heavy competitive promotional activities.

Baby Care and Family Care delivered solid organic sales growth of 4%. Volume was in line with prior US pricing, adding 4 points to the sales growth. Global Baby Care shipments were in line with prior-year levels as strong growth in Western Europe behind Pampers Simply Dry [to the] tier three initiative in Germany was offset by declines in developing markets due to market contraction. We are expanding Simply Dry to key European countries in the September quarter. Pampers diapers value share in Western Europe was up about 0.5 points to a 54%, and in Germany the diaper value share was up nearly 5 points to 62%. In the US, P&G's all-outlet value share of diapers was up 0.5 points to 35%, as growth on Luvs more than offset a modest share decline on Pampers.

Family Care shipments were in line with prior-year levels despite increased competitive activity that caused some market share softness in the quarter. US all-outlet value share for Charmin was down by about 1 point, and Bounty was down about 0.5 points on the quarter. Both brands remain clear market share leaders with Charmin at 27% of the US bath tissue market and Bounty at over 45% of the paper towel market.

That concludes the business segment review, and I'll hand the call over to AG for his comments on the year.

AG LAFLEY, CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD, PROCTER & GAMBLE COMPANY: Thank you, Teri. When we started this decade in 2000, P&G faced some of the most demanding challenges in our Company's long history. We focused then on the few critical strategies and choices necessary to get P&G back on track to long-term sustainable growth. As Jon mentioned, we faced even greater challenges in fiscal 2009 as we encountered one of the most difficult economic environments in decades that placed tremendous pressure on our business. We incurred roughly $2 billion in net incremental commodity and energy costs this year on top of over $1 billion in incremental costs last year. Foreign exchange reduced P&G's fiscal 2009 sales by about 4 percentage points, or approximately $4 billion. The foreign exchange impact on profit was over $1 billion.

Consumer spending declined, and growth in the broad majority of categories in which we compete slowed from 3% to 4% over the last several years to 1% to 2% for the full fiscal year and to essentially flat during the June quarter.

As Jon also mentioned, we made a couple of critical choices to deal with this macroeconomic environment and to balance near-term results with long-term growth. We chose to focus on cash and cost management, to protect the long-term structural economics of the big four categories we lead and to invest to build the strength of the Company over the mid- and long-term. We increased prices to recover commodity costs and foreign exchange transaction impacts. Despite $4 billion in price increases, we basically held global value shares across the majority of our categories, which is a reflection of our brand strength with consumers and retail customers.

We knew that increasing pricing would lead to short-term share volatility and even some share loss. We were willing to accept these short-term consequences to maintain investment-grade structural economics. We made the cash utilization choices necessary to maintain our strong credit rating, and we rigorously reduced costs and increased productivity. More than any other factor, this discipline on cash and cost ensures that P&G will have the agility and the resources to invest in growth even in the most demanding economic environments.

We have been focusing our investments on brand-building and innovation. We targeted investment on our core brands -- the 23 $1 billion brands and 20 $0.5 billion brands that accounted for 85% of sales and more than 90% of profits. We are supporting this portfolio with strong consumer communications programs that emphasize the powerful performance-based value P&G products provide. We are also continuing to drive innovation that improves consumer value across all price tiers.

We spent over $2 billion on R&D this year, nearly twice the average of our major competitors. Our Connect and Development program multiplies these dollars even further by allowing P&G scientists and researchers to access and leverage the best external ideas from entrepreneurs, universities, foundations, institutes and other companies. These innovation investments generate results, as reported in the IRI New Product Pacesetter Report, which ranks the most successful US new product introductions as measured by annual sales. This past year, P&G had five of the top 10 new product launches in the US and 10 of the top 25. Over the past 14 years, P&G has had 114 top 25 Pacesetters, more than our six largest competitors combined.

We continued to make strategic investments in capacity, particularly in manufacturing capacity to support longer-term business growth. Last year we spent more than 4% of sales on capital, funding investments in 10 new manufacturing facilities around the world. The choices we made this year are reflected in our results. We delivered strong free cash flow and delivered organic sales and earnings per share results that balance short-term return with the necessary investment in the longer-term. In this difficult macroeconomic environment we must continue to deal with what is in front of us by being agile and financially strong. Doing so will allow us to adjust to multiple scenarios in the near and midterm.

We believe P&G is well-positioned to do this because we have designed P&G to lead with clear strategies, the core strengths required to win in our industry, rigorous cash and cost discipline and the most diverse and experienced leadership team in our Company's history. As John, Bob and I have previously described, we've designed a plan for next fiscal year that acknowledges existing economic reality while further accelerating investment in innovation, in our brands and in improved value to profitably drive share growth.

With that, let me turn it over to Bob.

BOB MCDONALD, PRESIDENT & CEO, PROCTER & GAMBLE COMPANY: Thanks, AG. In addition to the choices Jon and AG described, we have been renewing our strategies for future growth and identifying the few critical interventions that can significantly strengthen our business. We have been doing this with our purpose in mind. Our single unifying growth strategy is tightly linked to our purpose. We will grow by touching and improving the lives of more consumers in more parts of the world more completely. In order to accomplish this, we will first continue to grow our core brands and categories; second, build business with underserved and unserved consumers; and, third, continue to grow, develop and acquire faster-growth, higher-margin businesses. We will create abundant growth opportunities in each of these areas.

We will continue to focus sharply on our core businesses and brands because this is the primary way we touch and improve lives, and there is plenty of room to keep growing our core brands and categories.

First, in Global Household Care, it's a $200 billion market, and our global share is about 20%. Second, Beauty and Grooming is a $300 billion market, and P&G is leading, but with only a 13% share. Third, Consumer Health Care is a $240 billion market, and P&G just has a 5% share.

We will focus on profitably growing market share across each of these businesses in the coming year. Our second where-to-play strategy is to win with underserved and unserved consumers, and we'll do this in three ways. We will increase our presence in emerging markets. The opportunities here are boundless. 86% of the world's population is in emerging markets. Our emerging market sales are about $25 billion today. This is more than five times the average emerging market sales of our major competitors.

However, emerging markets represent nearly 40% of sales for some of our largest competitors, while they represent only 30% for us. We are confident we can grow the percentage of our business coming from emerging markets. We will dramatically increase the percentage of total Company sales from these markets by focusing on the affordability and accessibility of our products and by building consumers' awareness of the performance, quality and value of our brands. Our strategy for emerging market growth targets expansion in product categories that will accelerate per capita spending on our products in each market.

The second choice for making the win with underserved and unserved consumers is to strengthen P&G's presence in channels where we are not as strong today as we want to be. We are pursuing opportunities in several areas. The drug, pharmacy and perfumery channels represent a significant opportunity across many parts of our business and a strategic focus for Beauty and Grooming. High-frequency stores are also a huge opportunity. Today high-frequency stores would be our single largest customer if they were a single retailer. We see abundant room for continued expansion in this channel.

Our consumers' boss focus means we must be available to consumers when and where and they seek to research or purchase P&G products. Increasingly, that's online. We do about $0.5 billion in e-business today, and we believe we can increase that substantially over the next few years. We see e-commerce as part of a broader effort to establish online connections with consumers that build our brands and our business with retail partners.

A third action we are taking to serve more consumers is to create broader and deeper product portfolios. To do this, we will continue to expand our categories vertically into the premium end of our markets, as we have done successfully with Olay Pro X, Always Infinity, Tide Total Care, Ariel XL Gel, Clairol Perfect 10, Gillette Fusion, Venus Embrace, Crest White Strips Advanced Seal, Crest Pro-Health Enamel Shield, Pampers Extra Protection, Dawn Hand Renewal, Secret Clinical Strength and Cascade ActionPacs.

By bringing better performing, specially targeted products to market, we will increase consumer value and drive category sales for retailers.

We will simultaneously expand our portfolio deeper into the value price segment. The successful launches of Mach3 Disposables, Pampers Simply Dry in Germany and the United Kingdom, Naturella in Saudi Arabia and Kazakhstan and [Achay] laundry detergent and Salvo dishwashing detergent into Brazil are just some recent examples.

We will also expand our core brands horizontally into adjacent product segments -- Align, Bounce Dryer Bar, Tide Stain Release, the Febreze Home Collection and Dolce & Gabbana makeup are some good examples of this. As we expand our portfolio vertically and horizontally, we will touch more consumers' lives and offer more opportunities to improve each consumer life.

Our last growth strategy is to continue to develop faster growing, structurally attractive businesses. This is something we have been doing. At the start of the decade we took the decision to shift our business portfolio toward more beauty and personal care businesses. Over the past decade the percentage of sales in Beauty and Grooming increased from 18% to 33%. Beauty, Personal Care and Health Care have accounted for nearly two-thirds of sales and profit growth in the past eight years.

One of the ways we've done this is by making smaller talk-in acquisitions such as Frederic Fekkai, Nioxin, the Art of Shaving, Zirh, to help round out our portfolio. These three strategies -- growing our core brands and categories, building business with underserved and unserved consumers and continuing to grow and develop high-margin businesses, are the right growth strategies for the foreseeable future because we can continue to do what we know best in spaces where we have room to grow. We can leverage our capital by sticking with strategies that are proven, such as growing from our core. At the same time, we will seize opportunities by focusing on areas that present the greatest potential to win and grow. We are focused on an approach to growth that balances continuity and change, preserving and strengthening what's working where we can and leading change where we must.

We will leverage our core strengths in consumer understanding, innovation, brand building and go-to-market capability in pursuit of these growth strategies. P&G is the industry leader in consumer research and understanding. P&G interacts with more than 4 million consumers each year in nearly 60 countries around the world. We conduct over 15,000 research studies per year. We spend over $350 million a year on consumer research. This results in insight-driven knowledge that tells us where to innovate.

As AG described, P&G is the innovation leader in our industry. Virtually all of the organic sales growth we've achieved in the past nine years has come from innovation. As AG also described, P&G is the brand-building leader of our industry. We have built the strongest portfolio of brands in the industry. We have established industry-leading go-to-market capabilities. P&G is consistently ranked by leading retailers as the preferred supplier and as the industry leader in our wide range of capabilities, including company strategy, the brands most important to retailers, business fundamentals and innovative marketing programs.

We are also elevating simplification, scale and execution to how-to-win strategies. These are the key improvement areas where believe we believe we can create the greatest value and competitive advantage. Execution is, of course, the only strategy our customers and consumers ever see, so we must do it with excellence, always. Simplification is a critical focus and a disproportionate opportunity. Since I joined P&G in 1980, we have grown from a $10 billion company to an $80 billion company. We continually strive to keep our systems simple and workable, but inevitably size brings greater complexity. Driving out this complexity requires conscious and deliberate effort. Our simplification efforts have one goal, and that's to make it easier for each P&G employee and business partner to improve the lives of more of the world's consumers.

We must remove the costs of complexity so our brands are more affordable. We must communicate simply and collaborate seamlessly inside and outside of our Company. We're reducing senior management positions and layers and improving decision-making by simplifying our organization structure. We're also making other important [interventions] to simplify our business processes. We want to become a $100 billion Company with the speed and agility of a $10 billion Company.

We consider scale to be a tremendous asset. We have scale advantages as a total Company at our brand and category levels with retail customers and in geographic regions and markets. Internally, we also have technology and knowledge scale advantages because of the size and diversity of our product technology portfolio and our organization. We reap substantial benefits from these advantages today, but we know we can create more scale and leverage it more comprehensively across our business. For example, we are building broader and deeper category, country and retail channel portfolios. We're also coordinating cross-category initiatives and plans to win in multiple markets around the world.

There are other opportunities. We are designing and delivering faster, bigger, fewer and better product initiatives so we can generate bigger in-market wins and greater returns on our innovation and brand-building investments. We are leveraging scale efficiencies to deliver best-in-class cost structures throughout our business. We are using our R&D and supply chain scale to create alternative materials that minimize exposure to volatile commodity markets. We are creating the technology infrastructure to rapidly transfer best-in-class knowledge across our global organization. And there are many, many more examples. I am confident this focus will yield dramatic benefits for our Company.

Our last how-to-win strategy is continuing to strengthen the breadth, depth and quality of leadership at all levels of the Company. We are becoming an even more collaborative organization inside and outside our Company. We are getting flatter, faster and simpler. We are making the investments to be networked globally and digitized from end to end, and we are building the capability to operate on a demand-driven, real-time, future-focused basis every day.

Becoming this kind of organization requires new leadership skills and behaviors, and we are building these. In today's economic environment many companies are cutting back on investments in their people. P&G is increasing its investment. We know without a doubt that P&G people are our most important asset, and we will continue to invest in their growth, their capability and their productivity. AG and I both believe the decade ahead has the potential to be one of the strongest decades of growth in the Company's history. We're serving about 4 billion people in the world today. That's 1 billion more people than we were reaching at the beginning of the decade and at least 1 billion less than the number I'm committed to serving in the decade ahead.

We know that P&G products touch and improve people's lives in meaningful ways. People tell us and show us when we visit them in their homes, when we shop with them in stores, when we listen to their calls and read their e-mails. When we spend time with the people who trust and use our brands, we come away inspired every single time.

The opportunities are there, and I believe we have the right strategies, capabilities and plans to improve the lives of more consumers and create significant value for our shareholders.

Before I turn the call back over to Jon, let me address the fiscal year immediately in front of us. We are increasing investment to drive portfolio profitable share growth. We're investing behind our core brands, increasing support versus year-ago levels. We are addressing uncompetitive pricing spreads market by market, SKU by SKU. We are increasing the number of low-tier offerings, including the expansion of Pampers Simply Dry and Naturella, to more markets. We are bringing significant and in some cases revolutionary innovation to market. We will leverage recent innovations like Olay Pro X and Always infinity. And we will enter additional category and white space country opportunities.

As AG said, we are willing to accept near-term share loss as we rebuild the structural economics and long-term attractiveness of our categories. This was not something we would accept on a sustained basis and isn't something we will accept this year. Now back to Jon.

JON MOELLER: Thanks, Bob. As Bob and AG have both mentioned and as we have discussed previously, we've structured next fiscal year plans to reflect current economic reality and support investments to profitably drive share growth. Our fiscal year organic sales guidance is unchanged at 1% to 3%. This reflects current market reality and assumes share growth.

Foreign exchange is expected to impact all-in sales 0 to minus 1%. This is a modest improvement versus the minus 2% to minus 3% impact we communicated towards the end of May. Our guidance on earnings per share is also unchanged at $3.65 to $3.80 per share. We are using recent foreign exchange help to bolster investment plans.

The first quarter will remain challenging. Sales and profits will be impacted by a base period which included significant volume pull-forward ahead of commodity-based pricing taken in the fall of 2008 and gains on the sales of ThermaCare and the Noxzema brands. Foreign exchange will also represent a strong year-on-year headwind in the first quarter. We expect first-quarter organic sales growth of between 0 and minus 3%. Foreign exchange will reduce all-in sales by about 7%. Earnings per share are expected to be between $0.95 and $1 per share.

The year will improve sequentially as we get past the July-September base period as our investment plans are fully fielded, as savings accrue from additional restructuring spending and, finally, as foreign exchange annualizes and then, at current spot rates, reverses in the back half.

We'll continue to target 90% free cash flow productivity. We'll resume share repurchase later in the fiscal year, once we see our plans taking hold. While we will target a meaningful level of repurchase, the lower earnings level in 2009 and 2010 and our focus on business investment as a primary use of cash may result in 2010 share repurchase below the $8 billion threshold that was established prior to the global crisis.

The earnings per share impact of any likely share repurchase level is fully reflected in our earnings per share guidance range.

AG, Bob, Teri and I would now like to open up the call for questions.

OPERATOR: (Operator instructions) Nik Modi, UBS.

NIK MODI, ANALYST, UBS: Bob, I just wanted to congratulate you again for your new designation.

BOB MCDONALD: Thanks, Nik. As I've said to everyone who's said that, I think congratulations are premature. I've been congratulating AG, who I think has been one of the best CEOs in P&G's history. We've reached more consumers, touched and improved their lives. Congratulations to me will be appropriate only after we get to that next billion consumers and touch and improve their lives. But thank you very much, Nik.

NIK MODI: So, just to talk about the incremental investment spending as you start fiscal '10, in July -- and maybe it's a little early -- but can you share any early perspective in terms of how those spending efforts are bearing fruit in terms of how you think about narrowing price gaps in certain categories, certain regions and you look at incremental distribution? Any thoughts for us as the new year starts?

JON MOELLER: As you indicated, it is early, and our plans will unfold as the year progresses, and some of them are very significant, and we really don't want to be disclosing them prematurely. But there's a lot we can talk about.

The investment is really focused in several areas. First, as Bob mentioned, we will be expanding the number of low-tier product offerings that are available to consumers in many markets. We've talked about Pampers Simply Dry previously, which built 5 share points for Pampers in Germany; it's a mid-tier diaper. We are currently expanding that to the UK, France, Spain, Austria, Switzerland. We'll be bringing the Naturella mid-tier feminine protection brand, as Teri mentioned, to additional countries as well -- China, Saudi Arabia, some additional Western European countries. And we'll be sharpening price points selectively in several markets and several product categories.

At the same time, we'll be increasing trial and footprint of our value-enhancing performance-based premium-tier offerings of products like Crest Pro-Health, which we'll expand across the Crest footprint this next fiscal year; Tide Total Care, Always Pro X, which was just introduced, really leveraging all of those innovations to drive more trial and to increase the footprint across which those products are offered.

We will be increasing marketing support on our core brand portfolio, and we'll be expanding the portfolio horizontally as we enter new -- we'll bring new products into adjacent segments. So one that's on the market that we can talk about now is Tide Stain Release, the same essential product that's being offered across Europe. It's called Ariel Professional, and it gets P&G, for the first time, into the stain treatment/laundry pretreatment business, which is very exciting for us, and early support for that is very strong.

BOB MCDONALD: And beyond just the product initiatives, Nik, we're also going to be investing over $500 million to $600 million after-tax in the next year in our efforts to improve the organization. We talked about simplification, the use of technology. We have other restructuring spendings that we are going to be taking in order to create this flatter, faster, more agile organization in order to grow and touch more lives.

JON MOELLER: Really, I wish I could talk to you today about more of what's coming because there really are some exciting things, and I think this year is shaping up to be a pretty exciting year from an investment standpoint.

AG LAFLEY: Nik, just to finish this up, one of the obvious issues in the April-June quarter was we were very light on innovation and new product initiatives. And you're just going to see a pickup in the pace. And I think you know, we invest behind innovation.

OPERATOR: Lauren Lieberman, Barclays.

LAUREN LIEBERMAN, ANALYST, BARCLAYS: I had a question on mix, actually, because it has been, I'd say over the last year or so, interesting to me that mix -- actually, plus -- yes, we can go back two, three years -- that mix wasn't more positive, given where a lot of your growth came from, and then it didn't turn more negative sooner, given the shift in the macro and how people are spending money.

This quarter that changed. Mix became more negative, and I'm wondering also if, looking into the next two or three quarters, is your expectation is that mix stays around this kind of minus 2 type thing? And then, what is it that changed, or is it more about what you are emphasizing in your merchandising activity?

JON MOELLER: Actually, price mix was plus 3 in the quarter, I think.

LAUREN LIEBERMAN: I'm sorry; I mean just mix.

AG LAFLEY: Yes, mix was minus 2; right. I think on the -- let me do the price mix, and then I'll do the mix. Okay? On the price mix side, what you are seeing is value adjustments, all right? We led the pricing up in virtually every category. In most of these categories, we have the brand leader. And as the price went up and as it settled out at retail and as we saw what customers and competitors were going to do, we had been making adjustments. And those adjustments began in the April-June quarter, are continuing in July. And hopefully, we'll have them done by the end of this quarter. But that's obviously impacting the price mix.

On the mix number alone, I mean, part of that is emerging markets, right? And part of it is this still out of the portfolio. As we vertically fill in more of the economy and value segments, there are three or four price-value tiers in each of our categories or industries. And as we fill out the portfolio, as Bob and Jon were talking, we are going to have some negative mix in those categories where the fill-out is in the economy and value segments.

But overall, it's going to attract more consumers, we believe. And overall, it should lead to the profitable share growth of that Bob and Jon have been talking about.

OPERATOR: John Faucher, JP Morgan.

JOHN FAUCHER, ANALYST, JP MORGAN: You talked a lot about the innovation behind the incremental spending. Can you give us an idea in terms of how much of that incremental spending is going behind new products and innovation? Is it a nice balance between the existing portfolio and the innovation? Or, should we expect just a huge push behind the innovation?

And then, finally, housekeeping question, which is the Q1 guidance talks about continuing operations. Does that mean -- of $0.95 to $1. Does that mean there's no charges in that number and the gains aren't in that number? If you could just clear that up? Thanks.

JON MOELLER: In terms of the question on the balance of investment next year, it's really balanced across three items -- one, commercializing and expanding innovation; two, increasing market support on the core existing brands and products; and, three, frankly, is increasing competitiveness in some categories where we're not at the value equation we need to be. So you will see activity pretty evenly spread across those three sets of activities.

Your question on the first quarter -- there's nothing untoward in that number. It's a clean number. So continuing operations is the same as the all-in number for the first quarter.

OPERATOR: Bill Schmitz, Deutsche Bank.

BILL SCHMITZ, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: First of all, the shackles in the balance sheet in terms of maintaining investment grade credit -- I know that kind of inhabited some of the stuff you could do this year. Are we done with that? And then, the commodity outlook for fiscal '10?

And then what happens -- I know you want to change lives, but what if people can't afford to change their lives? It kind of seems like that's kind of happening now. So if that sort of [privatization] even trades into some of these categories, doesn't happen, is there a plan B?

AG LAFLEY: I'll try to answer your first two, and I'll have Bob address the third part of your question. You, actually, I think, you effectively snuck in three questions here. But they're all good ones.

First, the only thing that was constrained by the shackles that you described related to our credit rating was a share repurchase itself. And the only constraint there was it kept us from going above the minimum amount that we've committed to, to a higher number. But, for instance, we spent more on capital, which is cash and straight out the door, last year than we spent in any year in our history. And there are no unfunded projects in that regard. So I would just encourage you not to view that as an issue because we certainly don't. The only thing that constrains is the level of share repurchase.

Commodity costs will clearly be a benefit starting next quarter. We'll see, whereas this year we had about a $2 billion increase in commodity costs year on year, next year we are looking at about $1 billion of health, again based on current spots in obviously what continues to be a very volatile market.

And that is health behind that will be investing behind the three sets of activities that we just talked about previously. Bob, do you want to --

BOB MCDONALD: Yes. Relative to the improving lives, Bill, we think we can do that, and we can do that profitably. We have value tier offerings in most of our core categories now. We talked about Pampers Simply Dry, for example, and the expansion of that. We talked about Mach3 Disposables, gain in Luvs in North America, are all good examples.

One of the things we've learned is that, in order to improve the lives of people that tend to be toward the bottom of the economic pyramid, you have to innovate for the best consumer experience for those people. It's not a matter of trickling down higher-tier technology.

A great example of that is Downy Single Rinse, which we began developing in the Philippines some years ago. This was an opportunity for Filipino consumers who rinse their clothes five times with clear water in order to get rid of the soap, to use a product that added fragrance, some degree of softness, but also, importantly, sequestered the suds that were in the water and allowed them to go from five rinses to one. And basically, the product pays for itself because of the water that they save.

So it's great for the consumer, it's great for the environment, and frankly, it's virtually free for the consumer versus their previous practice.

We designed that knowing the Filipino consumer experience. And that's what you have to do if you're going to innovate for people at the bottom of the economic pyramid.

OPERATOR: Joe Altobello, Oppenheimer.

JOE ALTOBELLO, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER: In terms of the organic sales miss in the quarter, you touched on this a little bit. But I just wanted to drill down a little bit on some of the categories of brands that most surprised you in the quarter. And secondly, a modeling question -- the tax rate you are assuming for your guidance for fiscal '10?

AG LAFLEY: First of all, in terms of the miss in the quarter, that was really due to primarily widening price gaps, which we've talked about addressing as part of our investment plan. And it would be, frankly, inappropriate for us to comment on the category of brand specifics there. But we've taken several moves recently that have been announced, one in our family care and tissue/towel business. We've announced moves on parts of the portfolio for laundry as well as to address price gaps. So those are the ones that have been announced.

In terms of the tax rate, going forward we've talked about a long-term tax rate of 27% to 28%. And I would view that as being inappropriate rate to model for next year.

OPERATOR: Bill Pecoriello, Consumer Edge Research.

BILL PECORIELLO, ANALYST, CONSUMER EDGE RESEARCH: With the organic sales lagging the category by the 1 point in the quarter, your 2010 plans are clearly calling for market share gains, I guess growing about 1% or 2% ahead of the category growth. So what are you going to be watching to gain confidence at the magnitude of that investment that you have for 2010 that you've detailed for us, that it's going to be the appropriate level to accomplish the goals? Is it simply going to be watching those value share trends?

BOB MCDONALD: That's a great question, Bill. We have this goal of building market share profitably, broken down by building block, by key customer, by key geography, by key category. And we will be tracking it on a day-to-day basis. We basically are trying to create an organization that operates globally in real time, and we will be tracking and reacting to it, focused on the goal of building market share profitably. And we have the tools to do that.

OPERATOR: Wendy Nicholson, Citi Investment Research.

WENDY NICHOLSON, ANALYST, CITI INVESTMENT RESEARCH: I know we're just at the very beginning here of fiscal 2010, but I kind of wanted to look forward to fiscal 2011. Consensus estimates are looking for, I think, a 12% increase in earnings growth. And I guess my concern, thinking out that far -- obviously, there's a lot, macro, that can change with FX and commodities. But some of the investments and some of the changes you are making to the organization, things like R&D spending and whatever, and particularly the investments emerging markets strike me as maybe multi-year investments that aren't necessarily going to be funded in the first half of 2010 and pay off in the back half and, boom, we're off to the races in 2011.

So can you talk a little bit more about your long-term earnings growth rate and whether you think 12% in fiscal '11 is a realistic target?

AG LAFLEY: Well, I'd say a couple things, Wendy. First, as you know, we've provided no guidance beyond 2010, and really won't be in a position to do that until we get a better feel for the directionality in market growth. And that's really what I would encourage you to focus on as you think about what the ultimate earnings level is likely to be, going out. It's really going to depend on what happens to the broader economy. That's going to be a much bigger driver than any single investment that we are making.

I see our investment plans as continuing to sustain themselves, but I don't see them, in themselves, continuing to be a drag year on year beyond this year.

BOB MCDONALD: Wendy, we've been in the business for 171 years, it will be 172 in October, and we really do look at the business over the long-term, and we try to balance the investments we want to make with the results we want to deliver, always focused on the long-term. And just like we've invested during this economic crisis globally and that we've talked about this fiscal year being a year of heightening that investment, we are going to continue to invest in the business and in the people of the organization, in order to achieve growth over the long-term. So we really are focused on the long-term.

AG LAFLEY: Just a couple of things to think about -- you know, if you step back and look at our results this last year and even in the fourth quarter, there has been a fair amount of contraction in the beauty industry. But in virtually every segment we build share -- hair, skin, fragrance, which had a miserable year -- cosmetics, even personal cleansing, okay, we build share.

That's going to come back. As economies come back, that consumption is going to come back. And I think some of the consumer behavior changes which involve channel shifting and involve consumers trying our kinds of brands and products, who hadn't tried them before -- they are going to stay with them because they like shopping in the channel and they actually like the performance of Olay and Pantene and Perfect 10, etc.

So that should be momentum that we continue.

On your other point, I just want to make sure that you all understand this. We don't just turn on the investment for emerging markets. We've been increasing it every year. And under Bob's and the team's leadership, they are going to accelerate, okay, again because it's so much of the growth, okay, and we are driven by babies born, households forming and incomes rising. But this investment in accessibility in distribution and infrastructure and affordability has been going on for well over a decade. What we're doing is just accelerating it. So I don't think you are going to have a long wait to see some of those returns. They're going to begin to improve.

JON MOELLER: And the other piece -- perspective I'd give you -- we have talked about, this year, both in the quarter and in the fiscal year, that excluding foreign exchange we are delivering earnings per share that are actually double-digit. And as we release guidance for next year, we indicated that -- again, on a constant currency basis -- earnings per share growth would be high-single digits.

So in a normalized environment, we are still generating very attractive earnings growth.

OPERATOR: Connie Maneaty, BMO Capital.

CONNIE MANEATY, ANALYST, BMO CAPITAL: Bob, you said, I think, that the decade ahead might be one, or you are hoping or planning that it would be one of the strongest in the Company's history. At least that's what I wrote down. If it's not, let me know. But can you quantify anything about that, either sales growth or margins or EPS, how do you see it evolving over time?

BOB MCDONALD: No. Consistent with Jon's last comment, we haven't provided guidance out that far. But I think AG, John and I and the leadership of the Company, the Vice Chairman, we all see the next decade ahead as one with as much if not more potential as the past decade. When I think of the potential that we have, we are in markets, as I said, that are well over $200 billion in sales, and we have anywhere from a 5% share in health to maybe a 20% share in household. So the growth potential is immense. There are countries in the world where we are not yet in. There are categories that we are not in.

So this idea of filling out our portfolio of country, category and then vertically within the category amongst price tiers is really what we have been focused on. The vice chairs, AG, Jon and I, have been working on this new strategy which we call continuity with change for well over a year now. As we've said before, Procter & Gamble takes succession planning very seriously. We've been working on this new strategy for over a year now, and I'll be talking more about it at the back to school conference. But this is the plan. This is what we see ahead, and we are all excited about it.

OPERATOR: Chris Ferrara, Banc of America-Merrill Lynch.

CHRIS FERRARA, ANALYST, BANC OF AMERICA-MERRILL LYNCH: I just wanted to bring it back to competitive pricing again. I know it's beating a dead horse here, but you guys have made a bunch of comments in the conference call and in response to other questions. It kind of feels like maybe things are stepped up. I know previously you had described pricing actions as still kind of surgical. And now you are saying that places were sales may be fell short or because of competitive pricing. Jon, I think you said some of these things are big. And it just feels like the tone has changed and that maybe pricing is a bigger piece than what you thought or a change in price gaps is a bigger piece than you thought. Is that right? Am I reading that wrong?

AG LAFLEY: I don't think it's changed. I think value is more important. Let me try to frame this a couple of ways, Chris. First of all, we are talking about less than 10%, maybe even less than 5% of the total portfolio, where we are adjusting prices. And as Bob said, it's by category, by brand, by SKU, by channel. So it's still extremely surgical. And we are just in the normal cycle of things. We had to price for commodities, then we had to price for currency. All right? And commodities in the first half, currency and developing markets in the second half. We know it takes six to nine months for pricing to settle out through the channels and through retail with all of the customer moves and all of the competitor moves, and then you start dialing in the refinements.

The second point that I think is incredibly important to understand is, it's definitely more about consumer value, but consumer value isn't just about price. Consumer value is about brand and benefits and performance and price. And in virtually all of our industries, there are three or four value-price tiers -- that's what we call the vertical portfolio -- and there are three or four benefit segments. So in a four-by-four matrix, you've got 16 different consumer segments.

They are all buying what they think is the best value. So the woman buying Olay Pro X thinks she's buying the best value for her, and the woman buying the most basic complete moisturizer that we sell at $5 to $10 think she's buying the best value for her. The reason why Bob and the team think there's so much potential here is, while we thought we had extended our portfolios -- and we had, versus where we stood before going into this recession -- as we really got into it over the last year, we see a lot of opportunities to fill out these portfolios vertically and horizontally. And that's a value issue more than it's just a pure price issue.

Occasionally, you run into these silly discounting things. Frankly, I think one other thing I would add, I think most of that's behind us. We had a couple of customers that I think would admit that they went too far, chasing the trade-down. And if you look at what some of the big customers have done, they are now trying to dial it back in.

Ironically, one of the segments where we actually lost a little bit of share this last year was the super premium segment. Okay? We held our own in most of the other segments.

So, it's about value. I think value has gotten more important, and we need to deliver value across the value price tiers and across all of the benefit segments. And if we do that, there's a lot of opportunity here.

OPERATOR: Ali Dibadj, Bernstein.

ALI DIBADJ, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & COMPANY, INC.: I feel like there's a little bit of an inconsistency in what I'm hearing, and maybe it's just me. So I'd love some clarification on it. On the one hand, things are fine ex-currency; I heard that from Jon. Things about the economy -- except for the economy being bad, things are okay. Pricing is going to be a little surgical, on the one hand.

On the other hand, hearing, look, we're losing share. We are going to be more aggressive -- actually, I never really heard the word aggressive. But we're losing share, we have to do things differently. And I guess my question is, are your plans today different than they were six months ago? If they are different, how different? What triggered that, and when? And if they are not different, how can we really have confidence that you're actually going to see some improvement in share, which seems to be what you are going to measure?

AG LAFLEY: Let me say one thing about the past, and then I think Bob should describe how the plans are different because they are meaningfully different. Ali, if you think about the last year, the reality is we took a little bit more of the commodities headwind because of our big Fabric Care business. We took a little bit more of the currency and recession hit because of our big developing market business, especially in CEEMEA. We took a little bit more hit than many of our competitors because we are sitting in a few more discretionary categories. Okay? We talked about fragrance, but we also have salon. One is certainly discretionary, and arguably, some of the devices that fuel battery consumption are discretionary, and that's why we saw the falloff in the batteries market.

And frankly, we took a little bit more of the trade inventory hit because it's a lot easier when you are pulling something off to pull off the leading brand, pull one item, pull one cartridge off the peg on Blades and Razors. Okay? So that's just the reality of the world that we had to deal with. We're also the leaders in two-thirds to three-quarters of these industries or categories, so we had to lead the pricing up. So we exposed ourselves a little bit there.

But the truth of the matter is, while we performed well head-to-head in some of our categories, we frankly aren't performing that well in some of our others. And we didn't do very well in Snacks. We're not doing very well in Batteries. Blades and Razors isn't all that hot. We did well in Fusion, but we didn't do well in female or in disposable. We did well in Global Oral Care. We didn't do as well as we'd been doing in North America Oral Care.

So we have some issues, like we always do. Pet Care came back. Beauty, relatively, we did pretty well. So that's sort of the reality, and what the team did was step back, and under Bob's leadership I think what they've done is they've identified new sources of growth, and then they are really going to invest in the innovation program that they've put together. And I'll turn it over to Bob now.

BOB MCDONALD: Well, that's right. As we work this new strategy that we've talked about, and the vice chairs, AG and I and others, we really focused on a unifying growth strategy of this idea of grow by touching and improving the lives of more consumers in more parts of the world more completely. That's tied to our purpose of touching and improving lives, and that's motivating the P&G people and motivating all of us. It's the reason we joined the Company.

What we've discovered as we looked at this is there are a lot of opportunities out there for growth that we really weren't pursuing as aggressively as we could or that, evolutionarily, it was time to get after these opportunities. That includes things like the portfolio, getting the product portfolio, category portfolio, country portfolio, right in every country and doing that as quickly as possible. That's enabled by technological change. Jon talked about the expansion of Crest Pro-Health.

Channels, things like I talked about, e-commerce, high-frequency stores, drug, perfumery, pharmacy -- these are all immense opportunities. All you have to do, Ali, and you've done this, is walk into a drugstore just near where you are right now, and you will see Proctor & Gamble is pretty much not present in beauty and grooming in that drugstore. This is a huge opportunity.

If we added up all of these opportunities, they would obviously -- the net present value of them would overwhelm any of our goals going forward. So we obviously have to figure out how to stage the investment in order to deliver them in the right way. And that's why we're focused on profitable share growth this year.

OPERATOR: Bill Chappell, SunTrust.

BILL CHAPPELL, ANALYST, SUNTRUST: Can you tell us, have you seen anything either inter-quarter, as we've moved into July, that gives you comfort that we've bottomed out on the economy? And just as a follow-up, is there any way to quantify, Bob, what you're expecting from the simplification program in terms of cost savings over the next year?

JON MOELLER: Well, from an economic standpoint, we are obviously -- that's not our business. And we're being prudently conservative as we think about our plans going forward. Our planning basis is the same market growth rates that we saw in the last quarter, which was essentially flat. So we really haven't -- we're really not going to be in the business of calling the bottom, so to speak.

What I will tell you, though, is that the rates of decline have clearly decelerated. So, it's not as bad sequentially as we've seen in the past, and it appears to have flattened out quite a bit.

Obviously, one of the things that we're going to be watching -- and we've talked about this as a group before -- most closely because it has the biggest correlation to a purchase of our products -- is the unemployment rate. And as you know, that hasn't turned, either, yet. So our guidance, though, next year doesn't assume that turns. And I think that's the right planning stance to take as we go forward.

BOB MCDONALD: Relative to the simplification, we have all the efforts broken out in the building block. We don't plan to disclose those building blocks, but rest assured it's a really pervasive activity. It includes things like looking at our SKUs and making sure we reduce the number of SKUs, looking at our product initiatives, cutting the number of product initiatives and then increasing the size of those that remain, things like looking in our organization structure. We're flattening the hierarchy. We're doing things to allow it to be more agile. We are investing in technology to go to more globally standard systems, which will obviously free up people. We are looking at all the work processes within the Company. Jon is leading an effort looking at our business planning cycle, for example. And so everything is -- we are looking to make changes that would allow us to be more agile and able to seize opportunities more quickly in the future.

We know that, as I said in my remarks, that as any company grows in size the normal organizational tendency is they become slow, bureaucratic, hierarchical and complacent, doing the things that made you successful in the past. And if you look over the 171-year history of the Procter & Gamble Company, it's a company that has led change. And when we've led the change, we've gotten a disproportionate share of the advantage of that change.

You know, we were the first company to avert wholesalers in the United States and go directly to retailers. We were the first company that had a profit sharing program for its employees. And I could go on and on and on. We were the first company to ship retailers directly in Japan.

We're going to continue to lead change because we know, if we preserve our purpose, values and principles, those will never change. But if we lead change in other areas, we will continue to grow. And that's what we want to do.

OPERATOR: Andrew Sawyer, Goldman Sachs.

ANDREW SAWYER, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Just first on a housekeeping question, I was wondering if you could just tell us what the breakout on organic sales growth in the quarter was for the developing and emerging markets versus developed. And then, on the topic of mix, my question is really that, I guess in the past your algorithm has been driven by trading people up in developed markets, and then that's offset a bit by growth in emerging markets and you wind up pretty close to mix-neutral.

And I guess now is a continued push behind the emerging market growth side, but on the developed market side you are broadening to a more multi-tier strategy. And I guess my question is really, is that broadening to multi-tier and lower-end strategy or getting more exposure to the lower end a permanent change, or is this something that's more tactical with what's going on economically?

AG LAFLEY: Let me just handle the question on the quarter, and then I'll turn it over to Bob. Organic growth rate wasn't significantly different between developed and developing. Developing was a little bit higher simply because of the recent price increases to recover the currency impacts, but not, Andrew, dramatically different.

BOB MCDONALD: Andrew, our goal, as I said, is to try to improve the lives of every consumer in the world, and that's why getting the right product portfolio in every country is right. Now, as we talk about developing and developed, it's somewhat misleading, because if you talk about a developing market like China, you've got more millionaires in China buying premium products than you do in the United States. So in China, we've got to have higher-priced products that meet the needs of those consumers looking for that kind of value.

One example of that is Pantene Clinicare, which we've expanded throughout China. It's a premium Pantene offering. It's in more exclusive distribution channels, and it's the best hair care technology we know how to put together. And we have Chinese consumers buying that and liking that form of Pantene a lot.

So just because we talk about developing markets, don't just think that those are only people at the lower end of the economic pyramid.

The reverse is also true. In the United States, a developed market where you would think that people are operating more at the high end, we've got a lot of Hispanic-American consumers shopping in bodegas that we are trying to get similar great value offerings to where they shop. So really, the key is having a full portfolio in every single country.

AG LAFLEY: And really, if we do that well, I'll give you the example we've talked about already today on the call, which is Pampers Simply Dry in Germany. While that is a value tier offering that we introduced into the market, it facilitated pricing on the premium tier behind innovation because it then became the competitor with private-label and store brands as opposed to our more premium offerings.

So it's a fairly complex algorithm. But if we get it right, this is not mix destructive.

BOB MCDONALD: And of course, we work on the innovations on all tiers separately, as I said before. It's not a trickle-down phenomenon. We are looking at the consumer experience in each tier and innovating for those tiers and then trying to expand the differences between the product offerings in a given category.

OPERATOR: Alice Longley, Buckingham Research.

ALICE LONGLEY, ANALYST, BUCKINGHAM RESEARCH: You highlighted that market growth is going to be -- is critical to your growth. Could you tell us what your market growth was in the fourth quarter and how you are expecting it to be or what you are expecting it to be in the first quarter, by region?

JON MOELLER: I won't give you the by-region breakdown, but I think Mark and John could do that after the call. But in general, and it's really not that different by region, the markets were, as AG said, essentially flat in the fourth quarter. As I said earlier in response to a previous question, we're assuming that level of growth going forward from a market standpoint. So that's essentially our assumption for the first quarter.

OPERATOR: Victoria Collin, Atlantic Equities.

VICTORIA COLLIN, ANALYST, ATLANTIC EQUITIES: I wonder if you could talk a little bit about volumes in the Grooming segment. We've seen a sequential improvement in Q4, but can you talk about any steps that you are taking to offset the declines in the Blades and Razors segment, and sort of in relation to the [gross] of Fusion versus your other brands?

AG LAFLEY: Well, the big issue in grooming and in Blades and Razors is our competitiveness in every segment and our competitiveness in developing worlds and developed worlds. So we've done quite well in the high-end male system -- segment and we've done quite well in the high-end female system segment. Where we have opportunities are in what I would call point of entry for developing markets, and we have opportunities in the disposables.

We've just introduced Mach3 Disposable. It's early, but it's off to a good start. So we're hopeful there. And as Jon said, we can't comment on the innovation program going forward, but we're going to have to compete there.

The other big opportunity in developing markets is category development. I think we've shown in the past that in India, the average male basically uses one blade a year.

BOB MCDONALD: In India, right now, 50% of the shaves are done in barbershops. So if we can either change the barber to using a Gillette product -- right now, they break a double-edged blade in half and they use it multiple times. So it's not necessarily very safe.

Also, as you've probably have noticed, Vicky, a lot of people to see around aren't shaving as much as they used to. We've discovered that if we create the right advertising and create the marketing, we can actually affect how quickly people change their blades. And you may have seen some of our advertising on television. I know it's certainly been on in the US and the UK, where we talk about the benefits of changing your blade more frequently.

JON MOELLER: And just one last thing, this is Jon. As you look at the segment volume results, realize that most of that decline year-on-year is the Braun business, which we have talked about as being more discretionary. It's not a base Blades and Razors volume issue.

OPERATOR: Linda Bolton-Weiser, Caris.

LINDA BOLTON-WEISER, ANALYST, CARIS & CO.: Can I just ask you a question about your strategy to expand horizontally the key brands? It seems that, with retailers wanting to cut back on SKUs and brands on the shelf, that it may be a challenge to do that. And you've had some misses. I mean, Mr. Clean Wipes, I think, didn't succeed in the disinfecting wipes category, for example.

So is that strategy going to be more emphasized in the domestic market, or in international markets?

BOB MCDONALD: Well, the horizontal -- Linda, the horizontal -- the strategy to expand our categories horizontally is a global strategy. And really, it's not inconsistent with the idea that you mentioned, which we call efficient assortment. In fact, we have retailers all over the world right now and major retailers in the United States working hard to create more efficient assortments in their store.

Generally, that benefits our business because we have leading brands, the number-one, number-two brands. They benefit from a move by the retailer to go to a more efficient assortment. We typically get more shelf space. And that even includes line extensions of a given brand, for example, on Tide that could result in more total care space on a total Tide brand.

So efficient assortment we actually are very much in favor of. If, in the end, we lose distribution, we don't celebrate that but we think that's a good thing that we have to go back and work because our challenge is to make sure we create an item which improves the life of a consumer and is good for the retailer. So if we lose on an efficient assortment new set, we'll go back and work on it and work to improve the brand.

AG LAFLEY: And, often, our efforts to horizontally expand our portfolio lead to the creation of new categories or lead to the creation of new segments for existing retailers. For instance, Olay Pro X attracts a different shopper than, potentially, a base Olay. And those are market growth activities that retailers are strongly supportive of.

BOB MCDONALD: For those of you who haven't heard us talk that before, we know that Olay Pro X drew people from department stores who bought $300 moisturizers in department stores into retail outlets. Some of our customers ran it at the checkout and had major market share growth, 7, 8 points of growth during the weeks they ran it at checkout. And if you can buy a better performing product for $35 versus $300 in a different channel that you don't want to shop at.

AG LAFLEY: We had one consumer convert this morning. The woman who made me up before I went on CNBC told me that she could no longer afford her $160 skin care product, and she was now going to buy Olay Pro X.

Thanks, everybody.

BOB MCDONALD: Thank you.

OPERATOR: And thank you for your participation in today's conference. This concludes the presentation, and you may now disconnect. Good day.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
prgml : The Procter & Gamble Company
   IN
i8150105 : Consumer Lending | iprscp : Personal Care Accessories | i81501 : Credit Types/Services | ibnk : Banking/Credit | icnp : Consumer Products | ipcare : Personal Care Products/Appliances | i258 : Cosmetics/Toiletries
   NS
e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | e1101 : Economic Growth | cmarkr : Market Research | c11 : Plans/Strategy | gcon : Consumer Affairs | mlead : Lead Markets | e511 : Capital Movements/Invisible Trade | gpersf : Personal Finance | cbrand : Branding | efairt : Fair Trade | ccpint : Competitive Intelligence | c15 : Performance | ntra : Transcript | c151 : Earnings | c31 : Marketing | c41 : Management Issues | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e51 : Trade/External Payments | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | glife : Living/Lifestyle | m14 : Commodity Markets | m142 : Metals Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mnonfr : Non-ferrous Metals | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020090819e585000s9
  


 HD
 Q3  2009  Procter  & Gamble Company Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
14,192 words
   PD
30 April 2009
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©009 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
OPERATOR: Good morning and welcome to Procter & Gamble's quarter-end conference call. Today's discussion will include a number of forward-looking statements. If you will refer to P&G's most recent 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K reports, you will see a discussion of factors that could cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from these projections. As required by Regulation G, P&G needs to make you aware that during the call, the Company will make a number of references to non-GAAP and other financial measures. Management believes these measures provide investors valuable information on the underlying growth trends of the business. Organic refers to reported results, excluding the impact of acquisitions and divestitures and foreign exchange, where applicable. Free cash flow represents operating cash flow less capital expenditures. P&G has posted on its website, www.PG.com, a full reconciliation of non-GAAP and other financial measures.

   TD
 Now I will turn the call over to P&G's Chief Financial Officer, Jon Moeller.

JON MOELLER, VP AND CFO, PROCTER & GAMBLE COMPANY: Thanks and good morning, everyone. A.G. Lafley, our CEO and Teri List, our Treasurer, join me this morning. I will begin with a summary of third-quarter results. Terry will cover business highlights by operating segment. I'll then outline our priorities before updating guidance. Following the call, Teri, Mark [Ersing], John Chevalier and I will be available to provide additional perspective as needed.

We had a good third quarter in light of a very difficult macro economic environment. We continue to grow organic sales despite shrinking global GDP and rising unemployment. And importantly, maintained global value shares. Organic sales were up 1%. Diluted net earnings per share were $0.84. This was towards the high end of our guidance range of $0.78 to $0.86 per share. Core earnings per share was up 8% versus year ago. Excluding foreign exchange, earnings per share grew strong double digits. Operating margin was up 30 basis points as cost savings, productivity efforts and price increases more than offset volume deleverage, higher commodity costs and about 60 basis points of incremental folder's restructuring charges.

We had a strong cash quarter, generating $3.5 billion in free cash flow or 136% of earnings. Our free cash flow target for the year remains at or above 90% of earnings, excluding the non-cash folder's gain.

Earlier this month, we increased our quarterly dividend by 10% from $0.40 to $0.44 per share. This is the 119th consecutive year since we were incorporated as a company in 1890 that we have paid a dividend, and the 53rd consecutive year the dividend has been raised. This is notable in a year when many companies will fail to increase or even eliminate their dividends.

We also continue to repurchase shares. Fiscal year to date, we have repurchased $6.3 billion of P&G stock. We've purchased $16.3 billion of stock since the July 2007 inception of our three-year stock repurchase program.

Most important, we have continued to invest, in innovation, commercialization, capabilities and capacity. We continue to introduce new products and expand into new markets. We continue to focus on bringing value to consumers' lives. We're making decisions today with an eye toward what will make us stronger tomorrow. This is the hallmark of our company, one that has thrived for over 170 years.

While results are good in this environment, they are below our long-term targets of 4% to 6% organic sales and double-digit earnings per share growth. Let me explain why this is and how we think about it.

Our long-term financial model is fairly straightforward. Most of you know it well. Top-line growth is comprised of 3 to 4 points of market growth and December 1 to 2 points of share growth mix and white space expansion. Combined with operating margin expansion of 50 to 75 basis points, this drives double-digit earnings per share growth.

There are four important assumptions in this long-term model that are causing deviations in the near term. The first is market growth. Market growth rates have declined in both developed and developing markets, driven by increases in unemployment, reductions in household wealth, consumer credit issues, and fear. Our categories in aggregate are growing, but they are growing 1 to 2 points below the 3% to 4% assumed in our sustainable growth model. We expect that to continue until a broad-based global economic recovery takes hold.

The second assumption that is implicit in the model is constant trade inventories. Credit and pricing dynamics drove reduction of inventories at some retailers, distributors, and wholesalers. We saw the impact of this in both the October-December and January-March quarters in developed and in developing markets. This had an additional negative short-term impact on sales.

A third assumption is a stable commodity environment. This clearly has not been the case this fiscal year. Year to year, net commodity impacts remain at about $2 billion. Over time, we are able to recover about 75% of higher commodity costs through pricing. But this pricing can lead to near-term share volatility when we are the first manufacturers to price across markets and categories.

The fourth important assumption over long periods of time is stable foreign exchange. As we have talked previously, we have witnessed dollar strengthening that is unprecedented in amount, breadth and speed. This has had a significant impact on our top and our bottom line. We price to recover the transaction impact of currency, which impacts every company in a market.

The translation impact, which is negative for US-based companies, but neutral or even positive for non-US competitors, passes through to the bottom line. Currently these impacts are meaningful. Absent foreign exchange impacts, our third-quarter earnings would have been up strong double digits.

While these short-term macro economic fluctuations are important, they don't guide the majority of our actions, which are focused on the fundamentals we know are critical to long-term success in our industry. Fundamentals like superior consumer value, innovation, cost and cash discipline and productivity improvement. Focusing on these items and funding them will allow us to maximize results in both the mid and long term, and will have a much more enduring impact on our business than short-term trade, commodity or FX volatility. I'll talk more about this towards the end of the call.

The last thing I want to address before turning the presentation over to Teri is volume. Organic volume declined 5% in the quarter. This was driven by retailer destocking, foreign-exchange-related pricing in developing markets and market contraction in more discretionary categories. We have already spent a fair amount of time on FX transaction impacts in past conversations. But I want to revisit it one more time because absent a clear understanding of this dynamic, it is very hard to put current volume trends in context.

Currency markets impact commodity costs because many of the commodities we purchase can only be bought in dollars. So when local currencies devalue, commodities increase in local currency terms. The example I will use is fluff pulp, which is used in Baby and Feminine Care products. Recently, the dollar cost of fluff pulp has come down 7% versus year ago. Because fluff pulp is priced primarily in dollars and Latin American currencies in aggregate have devalued by about 25% since July 1, fluff pulp is actually up 18% in these markets in dollar terms. In places like Russia and the Ukraine, where currencies have devalued 30% or even 40%, the cost of fluff pulp is up even more in local currency terms.

If not addressed, these commodity cost increases can quickly compromise the structural economics of a business. If we don't price to recover the transaction impact of foreign exchange, our ability to fund investments in innovation and market growth would be greatly diminished.

Price increases of this magnitude can have a fairly dramatic short-term impact on volume. Retailers and distributors reduce the volume of inventory they are carrying to manage overall dollars. Consumers reduce pantry inventory and consumption. Volume decreases in developing markets where currencies have devalued account for over 40% of the volume decline on the quarter. All our years of experience managing through these types of situations across a wide range of emerging markets have taught us that while painful, pricing to protect the structural economics of our business is the right thing to do.

Market size reductions in more discretionary categories also had a large impact on volume. For us, this includes Fragrances, Salon Hair Care, and Braun appliances. These three businesses accounted for 20% of the organic volume decline on a quarter. While these discretionary categories may be out of favor in the short term, we take a longer-term view. Twenty-five of the last 100 years in the United States have been characterized by some form of recession. Seventy-five years have been characterized by extension. Our objective is to design portfolios to win in years that represent 75% of scenarios, not 25%.

I will make two points in the way of summary. First, the choices we are making on pricing, on portfolio, on investments in innovation, on consumer value and productivity, are guided by what will allow us to win sustainably over the long term.

Second, we are confident in our long-term prospects and are reasonably pleased with our short-term results. We are growing organic sales, earnings per share and cash. We are maintaining value shares and we are making investments in innovation, commercialization, capabilities and capacity.

With that, let me turn the call over to Teri.

TERI LIST, SVP AND TREASURER, PROCTER & GAMBLE COMPANY: Thanks, John. Starting with the Beauty segment, organic sales were in line with prior year as the benefits from higher pricing were largely offset by a 5% decline in shipment volume. There are a couple of key factors driving these results.

First, there are elements of this segment that are more discretionary compared to the balance of our portfolio. As Jon mentioned, the global economic slowdown caused a significant market contraction in the prestige Fragrance category. While we continued to build share and prestige, shipments were down more than 20% due mainly to significant market contraction and trade inventory destocking. The volume decline in prestige accounted for over 40% of the organic volume decline in beauty.

Beauty shipments were also negatively affected by retailer and distributor destocking, mainly in the Central and Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa regions, following price increases taken to offset the impacts of foreign exchange rate movements on our local cost structure. Beauty shipments in the senior region were down high teens versus the same quarter last year, and accounted for newly half of the volume losses for the Beauty segment.

Looking across the categories, P&G's global Retail Hair Care business grew value share by nearly a point to about 26% of the global market. In the US, Retail Hair Care all outlet value share was up about 0.5. Value shares for Pantene, Head & Shoulders, Herbal Essences, and Aussie were all roughly in line with prior year with a net share gain due to the addition of the Gillette Hair Care brand.

In US hair color, Nice 'N Easy value share is up nearly 2 share points versus prior year behind the premium priced Perfect 10 initiative, which is more than offsetting declines in minor hair color brands.

Skin Care organic volume declined mid-single digits following price increases in the North America and CEEMEA regions and trade inventory reductions in response to slowing market growth in China. Encouragingly, P&G's global value share of the facial skin care market was up nearly a point to more than 12% behind the continued expansion of Olay in developing markets.

Olay all outlet value share facial moisturizers in the US also increased about 0.5 a point this quarter to over 43% behind the launch of Olay Pro-X. Pro-X, which retails for $40-$50 per item, has achieved about 5% value share after only three months in the market. For perspective, this makes Pro-X comparable in size to some of the entire brand franchises we compete with.

In addition, SK-II, P&G's premium skin care brand, grew shipments high single digits this quarter behind innovation and facial treatment essences.

The antiperspirant and deodorants business was particularly strong this quarter, with shipments up mid-single digits. Growth on the Secret, Old Spice, and Gillette brands was driven by the continued success of the clinical strength and professional strength initiatives plus several new product and commercial innovations on Secret that launched this quarter. Secret all outlet value share in the US is up 0.5 a point to more than 16% of the market.

In the US Color Cosmetics business, our market-leading Cover Girl brand built all outlet value share on both a unit and value basis in a category that was essentially flat with prior years. However, Cover Girl shipments were down high single digits this quarter due to sharp retailer destocking.

To summarize Beauty, we continue to be pleased with the fundamental health of our Beauty brand and their growth prospects over time. But we do expect some continued pressure from retailer and distributor destocking. It's also likely that the market for prestige Fragrances will remain soft, given its discretionary nature.

On the positive side, we continue to see strength in our premium beauty offerings, such as Olay Pro-X, Secret Clinical Strength, Nice 'N Easy Perfect 10 and Gucci fine fragrance, reinforcing the importance of delivering a continuous stream of leading innovations, as well as having brand portfolios that can serve the needs of a wide range of consumers at multiple price points.

In grooming, market contractions and inventory reductions significantly impacted shipments, resulting in a 4% organic sales decline. These impacts were particularly acute in Braun, where shipments were down more than 20%. These products are considered more discretionary in tight economic times, particularly in developing markets.

In Blades and Razors, volume declined high single digits, as Fusion shipments increased high single digits were more than offset by a double-digit decline in legacy systems. The growth of the flagship Fusion brand was led by Western Europe with shipments up double digits and in Japan with volume up more than 30%. Fusion value share in the US was up about 3 points versus prior year, and is now over 29% of male Blades and Razors. P&G's past three months value share of all male Blades and Razors is now over 70%.

Fusion is also building share outside the US. In Western Europe, Fusion's share is up nearly 4 points to about 23%. In female Blades and Razors, Venus shipments were down mid singles globally and in the US. However, the brand built unit and value share in the US over the past three months. Again, retailer destocking and market size contraction on a unit basis reconcile these diverging trends.

In Health Care, organic sales were down 2% behind soft results in Personal Health Care and lower shipment volume of Oral Care and Fem Care in the senior region following FX-driven price increases.

As expected, Prilosec OTC continues to be impacted by the loss of market exclusivity in March of 2008. Personal Health Care top-line results were also negatively affected by one of the mildest cold and flu seasons in years according to the US Center for Disease Control and Prevention. This led to a significant contraction of the respiratory care market. As a result, fixed shipments were down 20% in the US for the quarter. However, P&G's all outlet share of the US respiratory care market was in line with prior year on both a unit and value basis.

Oral Care volume declined low single digits as double-digit growth for Oral-B in Western Europe, driven by strong power toothbrush growth, was offset by lower shipments in the senior region following foreign exchange-driven price increases.

Trade inventory reductions in markets like Russia and Turkey led to a mid teens reduction in shipments in the region. Oral Care volume in North America was down mid singles due mainly to soft power toothbrush shipments and market contraction in the tooth whitening segment.

In the US toothpaste market, Crest increased its all outlet value share leadership, growing to nearly 38% of the market. Crest Pro Health continues to be the primary driver of Crest's share gains in the US. Additionally, initial results of our recent introductions of Oral-B tooth paste into Benelux and Brazil are off to a solid start in the first few months in the market.

Feminine Care volume declined low single digits due almost entirely to market impacts in CEEMEA following our FX-driven price increases. In the US, P&G delivered solid market share performance across the Always pads and liners and Tampax tampon segments. P&G's all outlet value share of the US Fem Care category grew 0.5 to over 51%. Always Infinity, which launched last fall, is delivering good results in the US pad market with market share of 6%. We are continuing to support the initiative with strong value messages and trial incentives to drive conversion to this revolutionary new product in Feminine Care protection. Repeat rates have exceeded expectations as consumers who have tried Always Infinity have recognized the value created by this breakthrough technology.

For the Snacks and Pet Care segments, organic sales grew 2% led by Pet Care with strong growth, which more than offset a modest decline in Snacks. Significant pricing actions in both businesses offset a mid-single-digit volume decline in the segments. Decline in Snacks volume is due mainly to a strong base period that included the Rice Infusion initiative in Western Europe and the Extreme Flavors launch in North America. Shipments were also affected by trade inventory adjustments in advance of the Pringles SuperStack initiative that launched late in the quarter, which included a double-digit price increase.

Iams' US value share was roughly in line with prior-year levels at about 8%. Recent Iams innovations, such as Proactive Health, Healthy Naturals and Premium Protection continued to deliver results at or ahead of expectations. Eukanuba volume declined high single digits and market share declined, resulting from the price increases implemented last calendar.

Turning to fabric and Home Care segment, organic sales grew 3% as the benefits from price increases more than offset volume declines. In the majority of cases, globally, price gaps are starting to return to levels similar to those prior to our price increases. We are continuing to monitor the relative consumer value of our brands and we will take targeted actions where necessary to restore consumer value to competitive levels.

Fabric Care shipments were down mid single digits primarily due to lower shipments of Tide and Ariel. Volume declines on these brands were most pronounced in the senior region, with both brands down double digits following foreign-exchange driven price increases taken during the March quarter. Tide volume declined high single digits in the US and all outlet value share was down 3 points to 38% due to significantly higher price gaps versus competitive brands compared to prior year. the Gain brand delivered a strong quarter, with shipments up mid singles and all outlet value share up a point to nearly 16%.

Home Care shipments declined low single digits due mainly to declines in dish care and hard surface cleaning solutions. Dish care shipments in the US were down due to unit based market contraction following significant price increases last year. P&G's leading US dish care all outlet value share was down slightly and remains above 54% with Cascade above 61% in auto dish and Dawn at 43% in hand dish.

The Swiffer and Febreze brands both grew volume for the quarter. Swiffer volume in the US was up mid singles and all outlet value share increased 1.5 to 16% driven by innovations across all Swiffer items, including upgrades to both the dry and wet refill products and packaging and implement design.

Febreze volume was up in Western Europe behind continued geographic expansion. In the US, Febreze volume was in line with prior year in a category that declined 9% in units. The resulting all outlet value share gains in the US included more than a 5-point gain in instant air fresheners and more than a 2-point gain in candles.

Battery shipments were down high single digits due to market size and share challenges in both developed and developing markets. Share for the Duracell brand was impacted by trade-downs to value and retailer brands and heavy competitive activity in Western Europe.

In the US, Duracell's all outlet value share of alkaline batteries declined 2 points to 44%. In Western Europe, Duracell's share of general-purpose batteries was down 3 points to 33%.

In developing markets, battery shipments were down mid teens in the CEEMEA and Latin America regions due to the soft market following price increases.

Baby and Family Care delivered solid organic sales growth of 6%. Volume was in line with prior year and the net benefit from higher pricing accounted for the sales growth in the quarter. Global Baby Care shipments grew low single digits behind solid growth in North America and Western Europe. Developing market shipments were down slightly versus prior year, following price increases in Latin America.

In the US, P&G's Baby Care business grew shipments mid singles behind low teens growth of Luvs. The Pampers brand also grew shipments in the US for the quarter. P&G's overall share of US diapers increased about 0.5 to over 35% behind the growth of the Luvs brand and Pampers' share was in line with prior year.

In Western Europe, Pampers grew low single digits behind strong consumer response to the UNICEF Vaccine Partnership campaign and the successful launch of the Pampers Simply Dry in Germany. Simply Dry, a tier 3 version of Pampers, has helped the overall Pampers brand grow share by 4 points to 59% in the highly competitive German market. Pampers value share of the total Western European diaper market is up more than a point to nearly 55%.

Family Care volume declined low single digits as growth of Bounty was offset by a decline of Charmin, primarily due to a high base period that included the Charmin Ultra Strong initiative. Bounty added nearly 1 point to its market-leading US all outlet value share, which is now above 46%. While Charmin US value share declined about a 0.5 point, Charmin continues to be the clear market leader with all outlet share of nearly 28%.

That concludes the business segment review and I'll now hand the call back to Jon.

JON MOELLER: Thanks, Teri. During the last earnings call, and more recently at CAGNY, we discussed in some detail the priorities we have established to guide our near-term efforts and decisions. Broadly speaking, these three areas are building consumer value, accelerated investments in the future, and driving productivity and simplification even further.

Before moving to guidance, let me take a few moments to provide more detail on these priorities. Consumer value is about more than price and is defined differently by different consumers. Some consumers have a larger price component to their value equation. For those consumers, we are offering more products and lower price tiers than at any point in our history. We've talked previously about Gain in Fabric Care, Luvs in Baby Care and Charmin and Bounty Basic in Family Care, all of which are growing disproportionately in this environment.

But the balance of our product portfolio also has lower-priced offerings. For example, Olay offers a very good basic skin care product in Olay Complete Ageless for $7. And Crest offers excellent basic toothpaste and Crest Cavity Protection at $2 for a 6.4-ounce tube.

We remain committed to offering cost-conscious consumers a broader range of choices. As Teri said, last month, we introduced a tier 3 baby diaper into Germany called Pampers Simply Dry. It's off to a strong start, already having achieved a 4% market share. And just this past week, we launched Naturella, which is a mid-tier Feminine Care product into the Arabian Peninsula, which will further extend our leadership position there.

Other consumers have a larger performance component to their value equation. These consumers are delighted by Olay Pro-X, which is priced at about $50. As we have mentioned, Olay Pro-X has achieved a 5% market share after only 12 weeks on market.

Tide Total Care, despite being priced at a 30% premium, is on pace to deliver $120 million to $150 million in year one sales. Always Infinity is priced at a 60% premium, but has already received a 6% value share. Crest White Strips Advanced Seal was launched at the end of January at a retail price point of about $40, and is already the number one SKU in the whitening category with over a 20% value share. We will continue to extend the portfolio at the top and bottom as part of our objective to deliver better value and serve more of the world's consumers.

As we focus on delivering value that is relevant to specific consumers, we are investing in communicating that value through performance-based value messaging at all touch points. This helps consumers clearly understand the price and performance trade-offs they are making.

We routinely assess value versus competitive offerings, via weighted purchase intent and price gap analysis. There are always situations where adjustments are needed to maintain competitiveness and relative value, but broadly, we are pleased with the relative value equation of our brands. About two-thirds of our brands have weighted purchase intent advantages and we continue to hold global value share, which is another important indicator of value competitiveness.

Investing for the future is another top priority. Our commitment to innovation as an example has never been stronger. R&D spending is nearly 2 times that of our closest competitor and more than most competitors combined. This leadership level of investment is multiplied by our extensive connect and development effort, which leads to an effective spend that far exceeds reported figures. Olay Pro-X, Dawn Hand Renewal, Pantene Nature Fusions, Tide Total Care and Clairol Perfect 10 are all examples of recent innovations that have benefited from connect and develop.

In the case of Clairol Perfect 10, P&G collaborated with 12 external partners in the US, the UK and Russia. These collaborations led to three separate breakthrough innovations that have directly contributed to Perfect 10's success. Perfect 10 achieved a 4% value share since launch despite selling at a 70% price premium to face Nice 'N Easy, which is now the leading color brand in the United States.

We continue to be the innovation leader in our industry not just as measured by spending, but as measured by results. Each year, IRI publishes a new product, Pace-Setter report. This US-based study captures the most successful new CPG products, as measured by sales over the past year. For 2008, P&G's share of the non-food category was 40%, meaning P&G had 10 of the top 25 new product introductions. By comparison, Unilever, J&J, Kimberly-Clark, Colgate, L'Oreal, and Energizer collectively had seven. Over the past 14 years, P&G has had 114 of the top 25 pacesetters versus 94 for that same combined competitive set. In fact, over this period of time, products that were introduced by P&G or Gillette accounted for 50% of all IRI pacesetters.

Advertising is another area where we are investing at leadership levels. We see the current economic environment as an opportunity to increase share of voice within our industry while spending fewer dollars in the absolute. During the March quarter, while costs were down, global media weights were up 5% versus year ago.

We continue to invest in capital as well. This year, capital spending may slightly exceed our 4% of sales target. We are moving forward with the capacity expansion program we started talking about during last year's back-to-school conference. With almost half of the world's 6.8 billion consumers currently using no P&G product and many of the consumers who do use P&G products being underserved, we believe our long-term growth prospects have never been stronger, and are structuring ourselves to support this growth.

India provides just one example. Just over two years ago, we launched Pampers into India. At that time, the leading competitor had a 70% value share. Today, we are the value share leaders in diapers in India. We are continuing to start up a new diaper line about every three weeks somewhere in the developing world.

Our most recent new category launch in India was Skin Care, where Olay Total Effect has already gained 6% of the market and doubled the size of the anti-aging category. The potential for P&G in just this one country is astounding. If, over time, we increase India's per capita consumption just up to the level we currently see in Mexico, it would generate an incremental $20 billion in annual sales. These are opportunities we clearly need to support.

We continue to launch new initiatives into both developed and developing markets. Initiatives that will be future platforms for growth. I talked about Olay Pro-X and the tier 3 diaper entry into Germany. We've entered the diapers category behind Oral-B in Holland and Belgium and in the pharmacy channel in Brazil.

We continue to expand Auto Dish across Western Europe, and Align is off to a great start. After just a couple of weeks in market, Align is already the number one probiotic recommended by gastroenterologists for the treatment of irritable bowel syndrome. The last focus area is a disciplined effort to lower costs, increase productivity and simplify everything we do. This provides fuel to improve consumer value and increase investments in the future.

Bob McDonald talked at our analyst meeting in December about the transformational work we are doing to redesign our transportation system. As part of that effort, we just executed the single biggest competitive transportation bidding process in P&G's history. This project included over 150 carriers, 7,600 freight lanes and over 500 million transportation miles across North America. On an annual basis, road miles will be reduced by more than 10% and intermodal usage will increase by 30%.

In Western Europe, our goal is to increase rail and intermodal transportation from 10% to 30% by 2015, and we're making great progress. Currently we are on pace to achieve 15% by 2009, one year ahead of schedule. These two transportation transformation activities are generating savings of about $75 million per year as part of a holistic effort to continue leveraging P&G's supply chain as a competitive advantage for the Company.

Another way we're lowering costs and improving capability is video teleconferencing. We have invested in 50 video collaboration studios around the world, which have already saved over $75 million in travel costs. In addition to saving money, this new capability saves time and builds the business by putting us more in touch with each others' suppliers and retailers. We are now conducting global leadership team meetings with this technology, significantly decreasing travel time and cost.

I hope this discussion helps you understand, with a few concrete examples, how we are managing the Company and what is guiding our decisions. I hope you will agree with me that these are the right things to be focused on and the right choices to make as we work to optimize the long-term prospects of P&G for P&G's shareholders.

Moving to guidance, we expect fiscal '09 organic sales growth between 2% and 3%. Total sales are expected to be down 2% to 4% driven by a foreign exchange hurt of about 5%. Operating margin, including 50 basis points of incremental folded restructuring charges, should be about flat. We are currently comfortable with consensus GAAP earnings per share of $4.22 as a center point of an earnings per share range of $4.20 to $4.25. This range yields year-on-year core earnings per share growth of 6% to 8%. Excluding foreign exchange impacts, earnings per share growth would be strong double digits.

For the June quarter, we expect organic sales growth of between 0% and 3%. Total sales are expected to be down 8% to 12%, driven by a foreign exchange hurt of 11% to 12%. Operating margins should be up, driven by strong gross margin improvement versus prior year as volume deleveraging is largely offset by the net impact of pricing and commodities. We expect earnings per share to be in the range of $0.74 to $0.79, including the Folgers related restructuring charges.

In the near term, our results will continue to be heavily influenced by external factors discussed previously that are not entirely predictable or within our control, particularly market growth and foreign exchange. We are providing wider guidance ranges to reflect existing volatility. We are committed to do the right things for the business and the shareholders over the mid and long-term and will prioritize our choices on this basis.

We are still engaged in our planning process for 2009 and '10. We are trying to ensure our plans are built on the most up-to-date relevant assumptions for foreign exchange, commodities and market sizes. We are also spending time on a disciplined look at investment options, ensuring that we are investing in the right things for the long term. Our current priorities, building consumer value, driving productivity in simplification and making the right investment choices, will guide our planning for next year. We will provide full guidance once plans have been finalized.

A.G., Teri and I would now like to open up the call for questions.

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). John Faucher, J.P. Morgan.

JOHN FAUCHER, ANALYST, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: Good morning. John, in your last sum-up comments there, you talked about the algorithm in terms of strong double-digit growth. And I guess, as you look at a difficult environment out there, that means you are capturing a lot of the margin from raw material favorability going forward and the productivity. And I guess the issue is why not leave yourselves with a little bit more flexibility, take the lower organic growth and say now is the time to take that extra margin if we're getting it, continue to go after some of the structural issues, maybe looking at more rapidly increasing the focus in Latin America and some of the other geographies and categories where you are struggling a little bit. I mean I understand the commentary about productivity and those things, but isn't there an opportunity here, given the lower multiple on the stock what have you, to really push this aggressively forward?

JON MOELLER: That's a good question, John. Let me just provide a couple pieces of perspective. First of all, in terms of top-line expectations as we stated, for the next quarter, we're looking at zero to 3, so it's clearly we are accepting growth below our long-term targets. As I also indicated, we're still working on the plans for next year and we will be back to you with those. But importantly, in all of this, as I have tried to indicate, we are focusing on where we should be investing to bring more value to consumers, to grow the business, to expand the portfolio both up and down and across and geographically. So you should assume that we're going to take full advantage, as would be the case in a normal economic environment, to expand our business.

A.G. LAFLEY, CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD AND CEO, PROCTER & GAMBLE COMPANY: John, very quickly, good morning. I mean I think you raised a good point. We had a chance to talk about it briefly when you were here last time, and I'm very much looking for the right balance. And we worked real hard, I think, to deliver the right balance this year, where we actually had a couple of big surprises. And the biggest surprise, of course, was currency, which I think we have done a pretty good job of managing. But currency hit us for more than $4 billion in the top line before the year is out and will hit us for likely well over $1.5 billion on the bottom line, so we have had to manage through all of that.

But stepping back to the larger question, what we've been doing is stepping up our investment. And I think it's really important to understand that. Our CapEx will likely come in above 4%. We are building 10 new manufacturing plants around the world somewhere this year, including a major new manufacturing plant in Utah to serve our Family Care business. John took you through the investment in R&D. But if you take out pharma and take out coffee, we have a very solid R&D investment this year. And then when you add on top all of the connect and develop investment we get from partners, we are stepping it up on the innovation side. We will bring as big a portfolio of new products to market as we ever have over the next year.

The third one is marketing. Jon talked about the advertising side of it. We are -- we have been delivering more GRPs to the market. It's always hard to measure, but we think in a lot of cases, we're actually building our shares of voice. And we've also of course, had to invest more on the trade side because when you are leading pricing up, there's a lot of price discounting that comes from your competitors in the short term, and we have to make sure we manage those value gaps.

So hey, step back and generalizing from all of that, the biggest thing that we are looking at for next year is how much investment and where to make those investments because we have a lot of opportunities for growth.

JOHN FAUCHER: Okay, that's great. Thank you.

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Bill Schmitz, Deutsche Bank.

BILL SCHMITZ, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Good morning. I don't know if I missed it in the prepared comments, but can you just give us the breakdown of growth between developed markets and developing markets? And then if you could also break down the volume, what percentage was from the distributor and retail inventory destocking and what was just the shipment declines or consumption declines?

JON MOELLER: The first part of your question, Bill, volume growth was slightly lower in developing markets than developed, so developed grew just a bit ahead of developing, but not too much difference between the two on the quarter.

In terms of the components of the volume decline versus year ago, as I indicated in my remarks, about 40% of that or 2 points is destocking related to primarily price increases in developing markets. Another point is related to the market decline in the discretionary categories that we talked about, Fragrance, Hair Salon, and Braun, and the rest is due to volume as a result of price increases.

A.G. LAFLEY: And the biggest issue in developing markets was CEEMEA. And I think that's pretty evident. You just have to look at what's happened with GDP and currencies. And I think you also know that that's our biggest developing market region by far.

I guess the other thing I'd say, Bill, is we are clearly going to continue to step up our investment in emerging markets. We are not scared off by the macro economic situation. In fact, the ability to create more, better and cheaper products and fill out our portfolios in more of our categories and across more of our leading brands just gives us the confidence that we can go after more consumers and more households in developing markets. And that's where the babies are going to be born, and that's where the household are formed. That's where there is sufficient income to begin to buy our Household and Personal Care products on at least a weekly basis point.

BILL SCHMITZ: Great, thank you.

OPERATOR: Bill Pecoriello, Consumer Edge Research.

BILL PECORIELLO, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: My question was, you made it clear that there is no broad-based value adjustments required and you're holding global value share with the 1% organic sales growth. But certain categories where you're losing value share in certain geographies where you need to make tactical adjustments that you are studying for the investment and with this more couponing, adjusting promotional price points, stepping up the value message, can you talk about some of the categories where your consumer research is showing that you need to step up that value message? Thanks.

A.G. LAFLEY: Yes. First of all, it's all about consumer value and winning the consumer value equation. It all begins in the store at the first moment of truth. And frankly, every day we are making adjustments in the operating businesses up or down.

Broadly, we've made some surgical adjustments on our Family Care business in North America. We are making some tactical adjustments on our Fabric Care business in North America. We led the move to compact detergents in North America in Fabric Care. We've led the pricing up in Fabric Care as we reported. We probably lost a little bit more share than we would have liked on Tide, and we probably gained a little bit more share than we thought we would on Gain. So we are trying -- we will adjust to get that right.

In developing markets, we have to watch our opening price point affordability, and that's why we've talked about the portfolio. Jon mentioned Naturella, but there are a whole raft of product lines across the categories that we introduce and we have to make sure that opening price point is right.

So you are dead right and I tried to make the point we are not only trying to increase our delivery and share of voice on the advertising side, but we've got to stay competitive on the short-term pricing and promotion side. And US, there's been more couponing, because couponing consumers, they are a segment of consumers that redeem more coupons in recessionary times.

But I view all of that as ongoing value question management. The point I think we're trying to make is that the pricing power and mix power is pretty clear. And we think we're going to hold onto most of it because what underpins it is innovation. That's really the points. The six points of pricing and mix this quarter is virtually all underpinned by innovation. And to the extent the innovation is resonating with consumers, whether it's more value-based innovation or more performance-based innovation, we will be able to hold it.

BILL PECORIELLO: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Lauren Lieberman, Barclays.

LAUREN LIEBERMAN, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Thanks. Good morning. I was hoping you could talk a little bit about why and for how long you expect the destocking to continue. Because it seems to me like, especially at the distributor level, in inventory adjustments that has to do with the distributor wanting to manage working capital levels, if you raise pricing, should be taken care of in the course of one quarter, and then from there it really is about consumption and market growth. And everything in the press release and the comments on the call sounded like you are expecting destocking to continue. So a little bit on why and a little bit on for how long.

JON MOELLER: Sure. The destocking that we saw on the October-December quarter was largely a developed market dynamic, as the price increases hit in the developed market and as we went through the credit crisis, particularly in North America, but also Western Europe.

The primary destocking dynamic in the quarter that we've just completed was in the developing world. And that is driven, as we've talked about, by very significant price increases, some of which have occurred very recently. So, as currencies devalue further, we've had to price further in. Some developing markets we taken two or three rounds of pricing. And that's why we are expecting some level of destocking to continue to work its way through the system. But you are generally right in that it should be, as a whole, a relatively shorter versus a longer-term dynamic.

LAUREN LIEBERMAN: So if currency stays where it is now, or as it was at the end of the quarter we'll even say --?

JON MOELLER: There would still be a little bit of destocking next quarter. The way the system works, in terms of banks notifying distributors that their credit lines are frozen, all that stuff doesn't just follow a nice, neat pattern. It takes time to work through.

LAUREN LIEBERMAN: Okay. So the assumption is that if currency stays where it was at the end of the quarter, all the pricing is in place even if it went in at the end of the quarter. So there should be one quarter left of destocking related to these price increases?

JON MOELLER: [Betterus curibus], yes. The world changes.

LAUREN LIEBERMAN: Of course. Thank you.

A.G. LAFLEY: Lauren, I'd just say two quick things. One, everybody is trying to operate with less inventory, okay? And I think that's good. You know, that's good. Our -- one of the things that I love about the challenges we have had the last year is we are more agile, we are more flexible, we are faster, and we are frankly operating better and executing better. I mean our case fill rates, okay, which is what the customers judge our service levels on, are running 98.5% for like six months in a row. So we've had to get better on the execution side to make sure we are in stock even when the retailer and the distributor are pulling down their inventories. But the easiest way for them, the easiest way for them to improve in the short term is to pull down their inventories. It's the distributors that are under real cash and bank line pressure.

In the case of some of our bigger retailers, they pulled it down because it was the end of their fiscal year. So I think -- I don't think the inventory destocking is necessarily a bad thing until you get to the point where you can't maintain shopper service levels and you can't stay in stock. And we watch that very closely.

JON MOELLER: There will also be, we expect, an ongoing dynamic relative to retailers wanting to have the most efficient assortment on shelves that they can possibly have. It's another way to manage their cash and maximize their biggest assets, their shelf space. So you will see that continuing to have an impact for some manufacturers. In fact, we are relatively advantaged in an environment of more efficient assortment.

LAUREN LIEBERMAN: Thanks so much.

OPERATOR: Wendy Nicholson, Citi Investment Research.

WENDY NICHOLSON, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: I know you guys care about benchmarking yourself relative to your peers as much as we do. And I guess I'm surprised with all your commentary, it sounds like you think you are gaining share in a bunch of big categories and whatnot. But the declines that you are seeing from a volume growth perspective are a lot worse than we are seeing at any of your competitors, both the US companies and the European multinationals or European HBC guys. And I know you think you are a little bit more oriented towards discretionary businesses and so maybe there's more shortfall there. But frankly, it sounds like you are doing really well on some of the discretionary businesses like high-end skin care. So the story of the emerging markets, I just don't know that I get it because some of your competitors have much bigger emerging-market business and you'd think the destocking would be hurting them more than it would be you. So it just doesn't hold together for me. Can you help me with that?

A.G. LAFLEY: Wendy, you have to do -- I mean I would be happy to take -- you have to do industry by industry, geography by geography, channel and customer by channel and customer. So why don't -- it sounds like you have some interest in the discretionary category, so I will do a couple of those and then if you want to talk about another one, I'm happy to go there.

I mean clearly, just one quick comment, clearly it's a good time to have a big business in LA. We are doing very well in LA. It's not a good time to have a huge business in Central and Eastern Europe and the Middle East. We have the biggest business in Central, Eastern Europe and the Middle East. So part of this is business and geographic mix.

But let's do a few of the discretionary categories. Fine Fragrance is probably the most straightforward one. It's maybe the most discretionary category that we are in. We've had double-digit drops in the market and every period, we are growing our share. In fact, one of the most successful brands right now in the fragrance world is Gucci.

So our point of view is we run a very good margin in that business, well above the category. We've built some very strong brands, particularly the Guccis and Dolce & Gabbanas to go with the Hugo Bosses and Lacostes, and we know it will come back. So we are probably looking at the worst period for the Fragrance business.

And when an industry or when a geography is contracting, what you want to focus on is your value share, right? So when it starts to grow again, you are growing off a stronger value share base. So we have clearly prioritized value share above volume share and we clearly prioritized net sales growth above volume growth.

Braun and Salon are a slightly different situation. And I think there, clearly, we have something to prove. We have actually lost a little bit of share in the Salon business. And we have some ups and downs on our share performance depending on Braun line. But what it's frankly enabling us to do is to accelerate and deepen the restructure, so we will get through major restructures in those businesses faster. We are focusing on where we really want to win in those businesses, and we are bringing innovation faster. So I think again, it's an opportunity.

Let me think. I was trying to think of a third good example. Clearly, our CEEMEA exposure is showing up on the destocking front. There have been huge moves in GDP in a lot of those markets and frankly, the currency impact has been big. And the combination of the two, demand softening and the price gaps widening as we price to cover the transaction costs of that [back], means that distributors who run their inventories on a dollar basis or on a local currency basis, have to pull those inventories down pretty quickly.

And another point that Jon made in his comments which I think is really important, you build a distributor network and you build relationships with distributors over time, so we support these distributors. And frankly, we support several of our suppliers, and we are willing to help them get their inventories down in the short term so they can continue to provide the kind of service we want and need. And then when times get better, which they inevitably will, we will move back.

What we are going through in some of these developing markets is not unlike what we went through in the mid-90s in Asia when I was there. You just have big short-term moves in GDP contraction and you have big short-term moves in currency. And in those environments, you've got to price to cover as much of the transaction as possible and you've got to make sure that you maintain your infrastructure so when things get better, you will grow. But I think it's more our footprint, it's more our mix of categories than it is anything that's really different.

If you look at what the other best CPG companies are doing, they are doing the same thing. We're all trying to get 5 or 6 points of pricing and mix and we're getting about that every quarter now. We are all trying to manage the volatility that we are seeing in commodity, currency and markets.

OPERATOR: Joe Altobello, Oppenheimer.

JOE ALTOBELLO, ANALYST, CIBC WORLD MARKETS: First question if I could for Jon, just want to go back to a comment you made to Lauren's question on shelf space. It sounds like you have held shelf space pretty stable throughout this whole period here. And I was curious, are you seeing any changes in categories where retailers are trying to go after market share in terms of private label?

And then secondly, for A.G. if I could, the data point you've often talked about in the past for trade-down has been unemployment. Obviously, that keeps creeping up and it seems like it's going to continue to creep up for the next six to 12 months. So in terms of the categories where you've seen the most trade-down, how do you combat that in this type of environment?

JON MOELLER: I'll take the first one, Joe. Clearly, there are some retailers that are trying to increase their own store brand presence in their stores. And there are -- the vast majority of retailers are working on efficient assortment, depending on how they best define it for their shopper. In general, we have been gaining shelf space, not losing shelf space. And certain of our brands have actually gained a significant amount of shelf space.

But the question behind the question on private label I think is important to address as well. If you look at markets and chains that are very efficiently assorted and tend to have a higher presence of store brands, so for example, look at Western Europe paper categories, baby and Feminine Care, which have a very high private-label development, our market share in those categories in those markets is higher than it is in the US.

If you look at chains like Costco, which have a very strong store brand in Kirkland's, or you look at Lidl, the discounter in Western Europe, again, in those more limited efficient or assortment stores, our shares are overdeveloped. So in general, the move to more efficient assortment should be a positive thing.

A.G. LAFLEY: Joe, I definitely agree with that. Where is, hey, here's the key in every recession back to the 70s, generic or private label brands have grown share. We know it's going to happen. It's happening in this recession. There is some trade-down. There's obvious pocketbook pressure. And frankly, more consumers will try private label brands and retailer brands than would try them in more normal economic times. The key is to minimize your losses and ideally, continue to hold or continue to grow your share in that environment.

Where is there the most pressure? Generic drugs. And I think that's likely going to continue. One of the reasons that we are considering an exit from the pharma business is because the pharma business model I think has -- the historical one that has worked so well is in question, and frankly, that industry is going to be under more pressure from generic drugs.

Clearly, Prilosec, which we built into a phenomenal brand and is still a very strong brand, is now going through the phase where the generics are going to be introduced and we know we're going to lose some of that business. The key is how much of it do we hold onto and how do we sustain it? And you see it across the OTC drug world. There's a lot of pressure from generics.

One of the things we like about beauty, grooming and Personal Care is that those all tend to be categories where there is much lower private-label development and where, for a number of reasons, consumers are just not even as interested in trying private label.

In Household, it's a little bit more of a mixed bag, but we tend to have very strong brands in the categories that we are in. So if you look at paper towel, Bounty has been growing share and private-label has been growing share. If you look at bath tissue, the strongest brands including Charmin, for the most part, have been about holding their share and private-label has been growing share.

In laundry detergents, surprisingly, private labels are more developed in Western Europe, but in the US, they are not really that developed. There's been a little bit of growth in this cycle, but they are still a relatively small part of the market.

But stepping back, they will grow during the recession. More consumers will try them because their budget is under pressure. The key is we need to be in a position at the shelf and then we need to be delivering with our brands and products superior value as Jon described, however the consumer wants that. And then, I hope, if we can at least hold or ideally grow share as we are doing on many of our brands, we will come out the end of the cycle stronger and then we will build from there.

OPERATOR: Chris Ferrara, Banc of America-Merrill Lynch.

CHRIS FERRARA, ANALYST, BAS-ML: I understand you are working through this stuff now and I get you are building a portfolio for the 75% of the time that economies are expanding and that makes sense. But I guess at the risk of asking you to front run that investment strategy, as a company and as an investment, what's the broader philosophical view on businesses like prestige, professional, Braun, driver of that 20% of the volume decline? I guess are you comfortable with the inevitable trade-off of the faster growth in good times with the greater degree of cyclicality that get you when times are like these?

And then I guess also, how do you reconcile the idea of managing that portfolio for the 75% when times are good, with the initiative to extend the portfolio at the low end and be more competitive during a terrible global recession that may prove to be nearing a close when those value offerings can create I guess a mix drag during the 75% of the time when things are good?

I guess it seems like you may be at somewhat of a long-term crossroads. Maybe that's too dramatic. I just want to see if you could comment on that.

A.G. LAFLEY: Okay, Chris, let me take on Beauty because that probably at least the question behind the question and certainly our biggest business with most of the discretionary categories. We still very much like the Beauty and Personal Care business. It has been the single biggest contributor to our net sales and profit growth this decade so far, okay, to the present. Beauty has generated over 40% of our top-line growth and 40^ to 45% of our bottom-line growth. The second biggest contributor has been emerging markets, which has sort of been 35% to 40% of our top-line growth and about 30% to 35% of our profit growth.

And in both cases, you are going to have to deal with the downs and the ups, okay? And we are quite willing to do it because, in both cases, we like the demographics that are underpinning Beauty in emerging markets. That's where consumers are. That's where they are spending. They are buying Beauty Care products younger. They're using more of them and they are sticking with them longer. Okay? Even in this quarter, okay, our Gillette Fusion share was up; our Head & Shoulders share was up; our Olay share was up; our Clairol Perfect 10 share was up; our Cover Girl share was up; and even Pantene leaked out a little bit of share growth. And we are still not to the major new initiative launch, which we said would come next year.

So I guess our point of view is you have to look at the attractiveness of any industry. This is a low CapEx industry. It's a relatively high gross margin industry. It's a highly fragmented industry. We still have a relatively modest share, okay? Despite the fact that we have a relatively big business.

And I think if you step back and look at it, it's a brand and innovation-driven industry that is shifting to our channels. One of the things that's going on right now that's good for us is big part of the Beauty trade down is out of department stores and out of specialty stores into the array of self-select kinds of stores, where we have the meat of our business. So I think there are a lot of things that are dead right for this, and I don't get too excited by a quarter or two or even a year or two if it is a right -- if it is a good business for us structurally, if it is a business that fits our strategy and fits our core competencies and strengths.

You asked about a couple of specifics which are slightly tougher nuts. We, on Braun, we have -- we have a strategy and we have a plan and it has a time horizon and the time horizon is appropriate, and we are going to find out what we can do with that business. And we are in the first phase, which is accelerating the restructuring. We will be moving in second phase, which is we're going to be very focused on where we want to play and where we believe the Braun brand is leverageable, and we will see. But you know what, if we double the profit or half the profit, you will notice it, okay?

The other one is the Salon business. We are quite pleased with the Fragrance assets we got out of Wella. We are making good progress on the retail assets that we got out of Wella. I think we finally demonstrated that we can actually make a difference with retail hair color. That shows in Clairol Perfect 10 and our Nice 'N Easy shares in the markets where we are established. So, we're going to learn this business.

Now again, because of Gillette, we actually had to put some of the restructuring on Wella on the back burner, but Robert Jongstra and his team, we've got the right leadership crew in there. We're going to get it restructured this year and next. We've got a little bit of encouragement from our Sebastian relaunch. We are very much focusing that business. And you will see us do the kinds of things we did in Fine Fragrance in the Salon world, okay? And again, is it worth investing for two or three years? Heck yes, because a lot of the innovation and a lot of the ideas come out of Salon and then go into retail and we want to be on the cutting edge of that.

But I think, again, will Wella make the difference in the Company's financial results? It's a pimple. Okay? It's a pimple. I hope it will become more, but right now, it's not going to make a big difference.

So step back, still like Beauty, still like Personal Care for a lot of structural reasons and a lot of strategic fit reasons. There are a couple of questionable businesses that you've asked about. We're working on them. We think we are working on them in the right way, and we will come to an appropriate resolution. And I hope they will be successful, but we don't know yet.

OPERATOR: Andrew Sawyer, Goldman Sachs.

ANDREW SAWYER, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: I had a quick one that was very specific to US laundry. It looks like the P&L on that business is coming in pretty nicely. You've got the pricing, raw materials and compaction carryover benefits, versus maybe I think you said a 300 basis point decline for Tide share offset by some Gain market share gains. So I was wondering if you could help us understand, first of all you mentioned some adjustments that you're making to help improve the market share performance, but how should we think about your tolerance for market share losses in a tough cyclical environment for Tide versus the very positive numbers we are seeing on a P&L basis for that business?

A.G. LAFLEY: We're not very tolerant. Andrew, what we did is it's a classic example of first things first, okay? And in that business, we wanted to lead the move to compaction, which has been good for consumers, good for retailers, good for the industry, and good for P&G and we capture a big share of that. Okay?

Two, we've had to deal with over $1 billion in commodity cost hurt again this year, and we wanted to make sure that we had our structural margin and costs right.

Three, we've had to lead the pricing up, as Jon explained in developing markets to cover the transaction impact of FX and frankly, in developed markets, to recover the commodities.

So we've sort of stepped through all the things we need to do to make sure that that industry stays attractive. Okay? Attractive to retailers, attractive to suppliers and, of course, attractive to P&G given our leadership overall share.

You're going to see a lot of innovation out of the laundry business, and I'm just going to leave it at that. You have seen a fair amount this year. We're going to step it up. And this year we will come back; it has always come back.

OPERATOR: Bill Chappell, SunTrust.

BILL CHAPPELL, ANALYST, SUNTRUST ROBINSON HUMPHREY: I think you mentioned in the comments that the media weighting was up 5% year over year but costs were down. I guess that's a little surprising in that it seemed like you had been cutting back on some media. Do you expect to continue to grow year over year for the next few quarters? And what's the outlook on costs? What we've heard is that after the May up-fronts are done, that media costs should come down a step further. Do you see that as well?

A.G. LAFLEY: Okay. The media world has been a good world for buyers, okay, and not just in the US. Here's a simple way to think about it. Auto industry, big media buyers, dramatic drawdowns. Financial services industry, big media buyers, substantial drawdown. And I could name a few other industries that have moved down and even in some cases out of certain media vehicles. So it's been a buyers market. Okay? And I don't want to go into all the details because there are a whole bunch of negotiations that are ongoing. But I think you are right. In the near term, it's going to be even a bit -- could be even a bit more of a buyers market. So what we have tried to do is take our market mix modeling and our market ROI analyses and figure out how to spend a little less money and get a lot more delivery. And there's nothing more sophisticated than that. Some of it is buying leverage. We are the biggest advertiser in most markets. Some of it is frankly smarter media plans. And some of it is, frankly, creative ways that we work with the media suppliers to generate value for them and value for us. So I think it's been -- it's just been a good time.

And frankly it's been important that that's been the case because, as I said before, we've had to spend a little bit more on couponing here and there. We've had to spend a little bit more with our customers in store in various channels and in various countries. So I think it's going to stay a pretty attractive situation. And our goal, over time, and again, we don't look at it on a month-to-month, quarter-to-quarter basis necessarily, but our goal over time is to strengthen our brand equities. And part of that is delivering a consistent share of media voice.

OPERATOR: Connie Maneaty, BMO Capital.

ZIEK KRAMER, ANALYST, BMO CAPITAL MARKETS: Hi, this is actually [Ziek Kramer] with a question for Connie. I was wondering if you guys could comment on the -- or just give us a little bit more color on the article in The Journal yesterday about the restructuring in the Beauty and grooming business and also as well, the timing in any charges.

A.G. LAFLEY: Okay. Well, on the last part, no impact. Hey, listen, this is something we have wanted to do for awhile. We think it's the next logical phase in how you organize a Beauty and Personal Care business for even more success. Here's the simple way to think about it.

We're going to organize more by consumer and customer or channel than by product category. And it's the first one of our major sectors that we are going to do this with. We really do believe the consumer is the boss. We really do believe in the consumer value equation. And we believe that we can accelerate innovation. And we believe that we can execute better as we go to market with our customers if we organize around Personal Beauty Care around women and around men, very simple, and then organize several of our other businesses around the channel, whether it's Salon or whether it's the specialty beauty channels. But that's all it is.

Now, on top of that, it's a dramatic simplification and reduction in the size of the management structure. We eliminate a lot of overlapping category and geographic complexity that we had before.

And thirdly, it's an opportunity for our best-performing beauty and grooming leaders to get more responsibility and to grow faster.

So I think it's going to make us more agile. I know it's going to get us closer to the consumer and the customers with whom we work to serve the consumer. And we're pretty sure it's going to accelerate our innovation to market. And on top of all of that, it's going to save us some money, so it's a win-win.

OPERATOR: Jason Gere, RBC Capital Markets.

JASON GERE, ANALYST, WACHOVIA SECURITIES: Thanks, good morning. A.G., you mentioned earlier about possible plans with the pharma business. But I was just wondering if you could just update us more on your thinking on portfolio optimization, especially as retailers are coming back and inventory and certainly looking to exit some of the smaller, non-leading brands. But I'm just wondering if you can give a little context around your thinking on that right now?

A.G. LAFLEY: We will continue to prune brands from our portfolio that are either not strategic or underperforming. And I think you have seen that this quarter, okay? And frankly you've seen that over the last eight, nine, 10 years. We have fairly consistently every year pruned a handful of brands and even more in some years, and that will continue.

On the bigger category or industry side, we are always looking at what businesses we should be in and what businesses we should not be in. As I said, while there has been significant interest in our pharma business, and while we have announced that we are open to look at all options, we are truly looking at all strategic options, including hanging on to the business. We are improving our profit year on year in pharma. So we're going to do what's right for the shareholder with the pharma business. But over the long term, it's not a play for us. Over the short term, we're going to do what's right for the shareholder.

There are a couple of other businesses which I obviously cannot call out that we're looking at that may not be good fits for us, and I'm not talking about small brands here. I'm talking about categories. But I think that sort of the state of play at any given time, and there are a couple of businesses that we would like to get in or we would like to take a bigger position in. And I think you have to look at that side of it too. I mean this should be a good time to acquire. There is consolidation going on in a number of industries, including some that we operate in. So I'm hopeful that there will be some assets that are available down the road. And at the same time, I think that we will continue to divest.

OPERATOR: Linda Bolton-Weiser, Caris.

LINDA BOLTON-WEISER, ANALYST, CARIS & COMPANY: Just a couple of questions on the Beauty business. First, in your Professional Hair Care business, do you think Unilever has plans for getting bigger in that area with their recent acquisition of a brand in that industry? Do you have any thoughts on that and whether that may change the competitive landscape there?

And then secondly on Olay, I'm curious if you think that price points at mass retail higher than the Pro-X price points are possible given the issues they have with [fast], etc. at mass retail? Thanks.

A.G. LAFLEY: I'm smiling on the second question because I remember back in 1998 when we had a huge debate, Susan and I were in the room with the team and we had a huge debate about whether we were going to go through the $10 price point on Olay. Most of the Olay in the world was sold at $6 to $10, and we were trying to decide if we could get $15 for -- $10 to $15 for Olay Daily Facials and $15 as the midpoint for Total Effects. And now you know we have almost a $2.5 billion brand and we can price it from $5-$50. You know, who knows.

I think the real answer is who knows. When the team came up with the Pro-X idea and they developed the product and we started to get consumer response to the concept and the product, I think some were surprised that it could command the pricing that it did. But when you look at what we are delivering, we are delivering products that are better than $200 and $300 alternatives in department stores, you know, that's the value equation, and it's a hell of a value equation, okay?

And consumers are smart and I think they are less concerned about where they shop. We've done a hell of a lot of Pro-X business on Amazon, believe it or not. It was one of the Beauty Care brands and initiatives and innovations they wanted to try and it's been successful. So who knows. I think it will depend on what the consumer wants and hopefully we will spot it and give it to her.

Hey, on the first question, you've got to ask Unilever. You know, I have no idea. The only thing I can say is when you enter a new business, it takes a certain amount of time to learn it. I wish I could say we could do these things overnight, but after 32 year's, it's just -- it takes you a certain amount of time to learn it. And it's taken us some time to learn the retail coloring business and to really get our technology and innovation programs geared up, so we are delivering products that are delightful for consumers and offer good value. It's going to take us some time to learn the salon business. But you've got to ask them about their intentions.

As far as the competitiveness, it's really too small to be a competitive factor right now. So we've got far bigger competitive issues to deal with.

OPERATOR: Ali Dibadj, Bernstein.

ALI DIBADJ, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & COMPANY: I wanted to talk a little bit about operating margins a little bit and understand the puts and takes there. As far as we can tell, volume deleverages is in the call it, 170 basis points range, negative 170 basis points range, plus, you worked on inventories nicely, so I'm assuming there's a little bit of downtime as well. On the flip side, obviously, you took down some advertising. In terms of basis points, it looks like 170 from the press release. But there's also other moving parts we didn't hear about. So cost cutting, foreign exchange multipliers we've been calling it, all that sort of stuff. So just want to get a sense of how things plus and minus shake out there.

And in that context, maybe an attachment question around the Snacks and Pet business, which I continue to be surprised about how low margin that is, particularly if, and disabuse me of this if this is incorrect. But I thought the Pringles business was in the kind of 20, 25% [EBIT] margin range, which would suggest Pet is much lower. So two parts of the question. If you could help, that would be great.

JON MOELLER: We typically answer one question and we will go to Pet. You can follow up with the guidance online on the other.

A.G. LAFLEY: And John had pointed at me. Ali, here's the story on pet margins. I think we've doubled them since acquisition, so they're definitely improving, single digit to pretty comfortable double-digit. We are not the highest margin player in the industry, but I think we are running second right now. So not surprisingly, Hill's Science Diet given their vet focus and profile can generate the highest margin in the industry. But we are actually running higher margins than the other big players, Nestle, Mars, etc.

And, there's more margin to come because we are going through a major replatforming and rationalization of our whole product supply operation and manufacturing operation. So I think you will continue to see margin improvement. That has been a focus of that team the last three years, and they have made progress on it and we prioritized margin and structural attractiveness before we started investing in the innovation. And by the way, the innovation is all starting to get traction, and you saw that in the top lien.

Without going into the details, the chips business is another matter. And the only thing I will say there is we have -- we are in the early weeks of a major initiative, where we have upsized Pringles -- super-sized Pringles. So far so good, but too soon to tell, and if it works, it will be a margin sweetener.

OPERATOR: At this time, we have time for one last question. Your last question comes from the line of Alice Longley was Buckingham Research. Please proceed.

ALICE LONGLEY, ANALYST, BUCKINGHAM RESEARCH GROUP: I'm glad I squeezed in. I am trying to separate out some of your volume and pricing numbers that you started to separate out earlier when you said that volume was down a little bit worse in developing markets than in developed markets. I am wondering within developing markets if you can give us some feel for how volume was outside the CEEMEA area. And similarly, could you break out pricing, you know, what pricing was US or developed versus developing markets so we can see the differentiation there? Thank you.

A.G. LAFLEY: Alice, you know we report on a global business unit basis, not on a regional basis, but I will just give you a couple of order of magnitude things. In developing markets, LA is the most robust now than Asia. And obviously the one that's been hit the hardest, as I said earlier, is Central and Eastern Europe, Russia in particular, okay? And I think that shouldn't surprise you based on reading any of the business dailies and just looking at what's happened with those economies and with currency. So we are sort of -- we will cycle through that, okay?

I forgot the other part of the question. Sorry, Jon, help me out. The main one?

JON MOELLER: That's basically -- and you asked about where we are taking pricing and where we are not. Effectively, follow the currency devaluations.

A.G. LAFLEY: Yes. I mean everyplace, we are committed to covering as much of the transaction impact of currency, and that's pretty much the pricing that's left. All of the pricing for commodities is, for the most part, done and behind us, right? And in fact, we will get benefit from that going forward because we haven't anniversaried it yet in a lot of businesses. Okay?

JON MOELLER: Thanks very much, everybody, and we are obviously available for phone calls on further details.

OPERATOR: Thank you for your participation in today's conference. This concludes the presentation and you may now disconnect, and good day.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
prgml : The Procter & Gamble Company
   IN
i258 : Cosmetics/Toiletries | icnp : Consumer Products | ipcare : Personal Care Products/Appliances
   NS
c11 : Plans/Strategy | c15 : Performance | ntra : Transcript | c151 : Earnings | npeo : People Profile | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020090514e54u000pd
  


 HD
 Q2  2009  Procter  & Gamble Company Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
10,628 words
   PD
30 January 2009
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
Copyright 2009 by ASC Partners, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
OPERATOR: Good day everyone and welcome to Procter & Gamble's quarter end conference call. Today's discussion will include a number of forward-looking statements. If you will refer to P&G's most recent 10-K, 10-Q, and 8-K reports, you will see a discussion of factors that could cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from projections. As required by Regulation G, P&G needs to make you aware that during the call, the Company will make a number of references to non-GAAP and other financial measures. Management believes these measures provide investors valuable information on the underlying growth trends of the business. Organic refers to reported results excluding the impacts of acquisitions and divestitures, and foreign exchange where applicable. Free cash flow represents operating cash flow, plus capital expenditures. P&G has posted on its website, www.PG.com, a full reconciliation of non-GAAP and other financial measures.

   TD
 Now I would like to turn the call over to P&G's Chief Financial Officer, Jon Moeller.

JON MOELLER, CFO, PROCTER & GAMBLE COMPANY: Thanks, and good morning, everyone. AG Lafley, our CEO, and Teri List, our new Treasurer, join me this morning. I will begin with a summary of our second quarter results, Teri will cover business highlights by operating segment, I will then provide several topical updates, before addressing guidance for fiscal '09 and the March quarter. Following the call, Teri, Mark Erceg, John Chevalier, and I will be available to provide additional perspective as needed.

Now let's move to results for December quarter. As expected, this was a challenging quarter. Consumers, both here and abroad, were under pressure from sharp declines in both housing and financial markets. Unemployment increased and consumer confidence dropped to an all-time low. Much of the developed world fell into recession, and growth rates in many developing markets decelerated. The global credit crisis forced some retailers and distributors to cut inventory to conserve cash. Commodity and foreign exchange markets remained extremely volatile.

Against this backdrop, P&G delivered. We grew organic sales and delivered on our going in earnings per share guidance. Diluted net earnings per share increased 61% to $1.58 per share. This includes the one-time gain of $0.63 per share related to the sale of Folgers. Organic sales increased 2%. All six reportable business segments either grew or maintained organic sales for the quarter. Organic volume was 3% below a year ago, due primarily to reductions in retailer, distributor, and in-home inventories in both developed and developing markets. Volume was also impacted by several price increases that went into effect during September and October. These impacted second quarter volume results in two ways.

First, to take advantage of lower prices, some retailers and distributors placed large orders ahead of these price increases. As a result, they did not order as much during the December quarter. Second, our pricing actions resulted in some short-term price gaps versus competition. Those price gaps, with only a few exceptions, have recently narrowed and are now closer to historical norms. Importantly, our markets continue to grow in both unit and value terms and in aggregate, we maintained market value share. So consumption of our products remains healthy.

Pricing added 4% to sales. This is an acceleration of the positive trend we've seen over the past several quarters. Mix increased sales 1%. Favorable business unit and geographic mix were the primary drivers. Foreign exchange lowered sales by five points, consistent with our most recent estimate. Total sales were 3% below a year ago at $20.4 billion. Operating margin was down 90 basis points for the quarter, primarily due to higher commodity costs, and 40 basis points of Folgers-related restructuring charges. Feedstock spot prices peaked during June and July, but because of the length of some supply chains, we did not see the full impact in cost of goods until the December quarter. Commodity and energy costs reduced gross margins for the quarter by about 300 basis points. Business unit and geographic mix lowered gross margin by an additional 70 basis points due to faster relative growth from baby and family care, and developing markets. Pricing, productivity and cost savings program offset about 80% of these impacts, leaving gross margin down 70 basis points for the quarter.

The all-in effective tax rate for the quarter was 15.7%. The unusually low tax rate was due to the tax-free gain of the sale on Folgers. The effective tax rate on continuing operations was 25.7%, reflecting the net effect of foreign mix, audit settlements and the effect of foreign repatriations. Moving to cash, we generated $5.6 billion of operating cash flow, and $4.2 billion of free cash flow fiscal year to date. Free cash flow productivity is currently running below our 90% target due to temporary increases in working capital. While shipment patterns remain highly volatile and uncertain, working capital should improve, as production patterns are adjusted to order flow and lower commodity and energy costs result in lower inventory values over the balance of the year. Capital spending is at 3.4% of sales in fiscal year to date, consistent with our annual target of about 4%. We remain comfortable with our 90% free cash flow productivity target for the year, excluding the one-time gain from Folgers.

Fiscal year to date, we have repurchased $5.2 billion worth of stock. This is consistent with our $8 billion to $10 billion target range for the year. We're now exactly halfway through our three-year $24 billion to $30 billion repurchase program and have bought back $15.3 billion worth of stock thus far. In addition, we retired $2.5 billion worth of stock as part of the Folgers transaction during the December quarter. We paid $1.2 billion in dividends during the quarter. P&G's dividend yield is 2.8%, the highest it's been in almost 20 years.

Now, this was a tough quarter with a number of macroeconomic factors moving against us. I thought one example of how these factors impacted business segment results might be helpful. Net earnings for our biggest business segment, fabric and home-care, dropped by 25% during the second quarter. To put this in perspective, commodities negatively impacted net earnings by about 35%. Feed stock prices peaked in June and July, but because of fabric and home-care supply chain, the full impact did not hit until the December quarter. And while some commodities have moderated recently, spot prices of other key materials used by fabric and home-care, such as phosphate, citric acid, soda ash, and sodium sulfate, are up 50 to 150% versus a year ago. Foreign exchange negatively impacted net earnings by about 15%, as several important markets such as Russia, saw the value of their currency drop sharply versus the dollar. The global credit crisis caused retailers and distributors to lower working capital in order to conserve cash and consumer confidence in many countries around the world dropped to record lows. As a result, reductions in trade, distributor, and consumer pantry inventories lowered inventories by an additional 10% during the December quarter.

Taken together, commodities, foreign exchange and inventory driven volume impacts lowered fabric and home-care profit by about 60% versus last year. Importantly, the business offset well over half of these negative impacts with pricing, cost savings, and productivity programs. Impacts of this magnitude are unprecedented in our industry, and have been felt across each of the business segments to differing degrees. Despite all of this, we were able to grow Company organic sales, maintain global value shares, and deliver earnings per share in line with our going in estimates. Looking forward, many challenges remain, but we believe we have the right plans in place to continue growing top line organic sales and bottom line earnings. I will say more about this later in my comments on guidance.

Now let me turn the call over to Teri.

TERI LIST, TREASURER, PROCTER & GAMBLE COMPANY: Thanks, Jon.

Starting with the beauty segment, organic sales were in line with the prior year as price increases offset lower shipment volumes. We feel our beauty business is holding up quite well in the current environment, relative to others in this industry, because of P&G's diversified portfolio across categories, countries, and channels. We have a broad category mix ranging from fine fragrances to skin care, to hair care to deodorants. Beauty is one of our more globally diverse businesses, with a healthy balance of developed and developing market presence. And our beauty business is very well positioned for the current economic climate as it is largely focused on the food/drug mass channel.

Retail hair care volume grew low single digits with a broad based growth across all major retail brands including Pantene. Volume growth was led by Head & Shoulders, Herbal Essences, Rejoice, and Nice'n Easy. All grew mid-single digits or higher for the quarter. Head & Shoulders delivered double-digit growth in SEMEA and Japan, behind new anti-breakage innovation and strong sales fundamentals. Herbal Essences grew high single digits in developed markets behind the successful restage of the brand. Across Asia, Rejoice volume grew double digits behind the extraordinary smoothness and extraordinary reactions initiatives. Nice'n Easy shipments were up high single digits in North America, behind the continued success of our Perfect 10 innovation. As a result, Nice'n Easy all-outlet value share in the US is up over three points to more than 20%. Global hair care shares are growing, and US all outlet value share of retail hair care increased nearly a point to 32%. Professional hair care volume declined mid single digits due primarily to general market softness as consumers reduced the frequency of salon visits.

Skin care volume declined mid single digits, mainly due to the divestiture of Noxzema. Olay Skin Care declined slightly as double digit growth in greater China was more than offset by trade inventory reductions and higher levels of competitive promotional activity primarily in North America. Lower volume was partially offset by improved product mix from higher shipments of SK2 and the Olay Regenerist line. Over the past three months, US consumption of both Olay Definity and the Regenerist line are up over 20%. Global value share of the facial skin market was consistent with the prior year.

Cosmetics volume declined mid-single digits primarily due to trade inventory reductions. Cover Girl's market-leading US all-outlet value share grew over half a point to 19%. We continue to build share in prestige fragrances, although volume declines high single digits due to trade inventory reductions, market contractions and a shift of initiative timing to the second half of the fiscal year.

In the Grooming segment, organic sales were up 1% as price increases and improved mix more than offset a 5% decline in organic volume, driven largely by double-digit declines of Braun. In blades and razors, volume declined low single digits, due primarily to trade inventory reductions and unit volume market contractions in some developed markets. On a value basis, the global market continued to grow at over 5%, driven by trade-up to premium systems and pricing. Gillette's share of the market increased one point, behind the continued strength of the Gillette Fusion franchise. Fusion grew share in all of P&G's top 17 countries in the December quarter, and is up nearly three points over the past six months. In the US, Fusion value share of male systems was up nearly two points to over 20%, making it the largest wet shaving system in the US. Share gains on Fusion more than offset share declines of legacy systems.

In female wet shaving, Venus grew behind continued success of the Embrace and Breeze innovations. Global Venus value shares increased over two points to about 38%. Volume of Braun was down due to market contractions, exits of the US home appliance and Tassimo coffee maker businesses, and trade inventory reductions. Braun's value share of the global dry shaving market increased half a point to about 35%, behind growth of female epilators.

In health care, organic sales were in line with prior year, as pricing offset organic volume declines. As expected, personal healthcare continues to be affect by declines in shipments of Prilosec OTC due to the loss of market exclusivity last calendar year. Oral care volumes declined low single digits, primarily due to trade inventory reductions in China ahead of a mid-tier brand restage launched late in the December quarter. In the US, Crest's all outlet value share toothpaste was in line with prior year at 38%, continuing its leadership position. Importantly, shares of Crest Pro Health Toothpaste achieved record high levels for the past three months at over 8%, up two points versus year ago behind the success of Pro Health Whitening. In toothbrushes, Oral-B shipments were in line with prior year. P&G shares are up over 1.5 points in both the manual toothbrushes and rechargeable handle segments due to Oral-B Cross Action, Pro Health, and Pulsonic innovations.

Volume in feminine care was in line with prior year as double-digit growth in Naturella in Russia and Mexico was offset by a mid-single digit decline of Tampax globally. In the US, Always all outlet value share of the pad segment was up over half a point to more than 58% behind the breakthrough launch of the premium initiative Always Infinity. After just three months in the market, Always Infinity has gained 6% value share while selling for a 60% price premium to the main Always line.

For the snacks and pet care segment, organic sales grew 4%, reflecting significant pricing actions in pet care. Pet care sales increased low single digits and shipments declined mid single digits. The consumption decline was anticipated as we implemented multiple price increases in response to significant input cost increases. Iams value share was flat for the quarter at nearly 8% in a market that grew over 16% in value terms due to pricing.

Volume in snacks was down mid single digits. As we prepare for the restage of Pringles in North America we've had to manage trade inventory to match manufacturing capacity. Pringles' all-outlet value share of the US potato chip market declined about 1.5 points versus prior year to 11% due mainly to lower promotional activity ahead of the brand restage.

Next, in the fabric and home-care segment, organic sales grew 1% as price increases and improved product mix more than offset volume declines. Fabric care shipments were down mid single digits, primarily due to lower shipments of Tide in the US, China, and Saudi Arabia driven by trade inventory reductions and share declines following price increases. P&G's all outlet value share of detergents in the US was down over two points as lower shares on Tide were partially offset by increases on Gain. We remain a share leader at 60%. Home-care shipments declined low single digits as high single-digit growth of Febreze was more than offset by declines in dish care and surface care following price increases. Importantly, P&G gained US all outlet value share in surface care and air care and maintained share in dish care despite the price increases.

Battery shipments were down low double digits behind significant trade inventory reductions, market contractions and share declines. Duracell's market leading US all outlet value share of alkaline batteries was down two points to 46% for the past three months as private label products gained share in the current economic environment. Next, baby and family care delivered strong organic sales growth of 7% behind price increases and higher volume. Volume in baby care grew low single digits, led by high single digits growth in developing regions. Pampers grew double digits in China, Russia, Saudi Arabia and Turkey. In Western Europe, Pampers grew high single digits behind strong consumer response to the UNICEF vaccine partnership campaign. Pampers' value sure of the Western European diaper market is up nearly two points to nearly 55%. In the US, P&G's overall diaper value share was in line with prior year at 36% as a decline in Pampers diaper share from a shift toward lower priced tiers was offset by gains in the Luvs brand.

Family care volume declined low single digits as growth of Bounty was offset by a decline of Charmin due to high period that included the Charmin Ultra Strong Initiative. Bounty was driven by the Best Bounty Ever Initiative and strength of the Basic product line. Bounty US value share grew 1.5 points to over 44%. Charmin US all outlet value share declined modestly to 27%. That concludes the business segment review and now I will hand the call back to Jon.

JON MOELLER: Thanks, Teri. Before we get to guidance, I want to briefly explain how we're managing in this volatile environment, and respond to questions we've been receiving since analyst day in December. We have established the following three priorities to guide our efforts through this period. First and foremost, we're focusing on value. We're ensuring we have strong plans and discount channels and at winning customers. We're establishing performance based value messaging across all touch points, on air, on package, and in store. And are shifting funds where effective to coupons and consumer promotions that deliver better value. We're monitoring pricing closely and intervening where appropriate to maintain appropriate value relationships. As we do all of this, we're broadly maintaining investments in brand building and innovation, both of which build value over time for consumers, customers, and shareholders.

Second, we prioritize cash, and profit and profitable share growth, in that order. As part of this, we're aggressively reducing costs. To date, our efforts have identified $1.2 billion in year to year savings, but we're driving for more. We'll save over $100 million this year through the planned reduction in the number of expatriate managers as we build stronger local management teams. We're eliminating unnecessary hierarchy and reducing senior management staffing. We're aggressively negotiating construction and capital contracts, and are working closely with our media partners to drive meaningful efficiencies across all markets. These efficiencies should enable us to maintain or increase share of voice while lowering costs. We're reducing travel costs by relying more heavily on video and phone conferencing, so there are a lot of proactive choices being made to reduce costs and improve productivity.

Beyond standard cost reduction efforts, we're stepping up efforts to dramatically simplify our work and our organization structure. Simplification reduces costs and increases both speed and quality of execution. I will give you one example. We currently use up to 4,000 colors globally for resins that we use in blow molded and injection molded parts. By reducing colors up to 50% and restructuring our supply base, we estimate we can save $50 million a year and significantly simplify operations. Third, we're focusing on turning this crisis into an opportunity, refocusing on consumer value, cost and cash discipline, and as just mentioned, seizing the crisis as an opportunity to dramatically simplify our operations and our organization. All of the actions we're taking should both help mitigate the short-term impact for the crisis and build an even stronger company for the long term.

Let me now answer some of the questions we've been receiving that may be on your mind starting with market growth rates. Our markets, in aggregate continue to grow. There has been some contraction in discretionary categories such as fine fragrances, air care, and quick clean. Some consumers are trading down, but our strategy of offering consumers a range of choices within a product category is working. For example, Luvs, Gain, Bounty Basic, and Charmin Basic all delivered solid volume growth during the December quarter.

Private label is a factor in only some of our categories and in only some of our markets. For example, there really isn't a private label dynamic in the developing world, and it's a very small factor in beauty. Private label shares in our categories across North America and Western Europe have continued to increase modestly but are up less than 1%. And as I mentioned earlier, our shares are holding. Innovation continues to create value. For example, by providing men with the best shave possible for as little as a dollar a week, Fusion represents a great value, even in this tough economy. That is why Fusion increased global share by almost three points during the quarter and increased shipments by almost 20%.

And women continue to see value in product like Always Infinity. Always Infinity has achieved a 6% value share after only two months in market despite being priced at a 60% premium. Consumers seeking the best performance and comfort in the category see Infinity as an excellent value. So while consumers are under increasing financial pressure, they continue to respond to innovation and value and we don't expect that to change.

Next, commodities and pricing. During our analyst meeting last month we revised our fiscal 2009 estimate for the impact of higher commodity and energy costs from about $2.7 billion, to about $2 billion. Since that time, commodity and energy markets have remained volatile but have generally been moderating, which is good news. As a result, we now expect to incur slightly less than $2 billion in incremental commodity and energy costs this year. We continue to receive questions on potential price roll-backs which I would like to address next. It's important to understand that pricing is related to much more than just short-term trends in commodity costs. Of course, commodity prices do factor into our pricing strategies, but they are not the only consideration. A significant portion of our pricing is driven by innovation. Improved products that provide additional benefits to consumers often cost more to produce. Our pricing is designed to recover these costs and create funding to support future innovation. This creates category growth and value for consumers, customers, and P&G.

We continue to deal as well with significant increases in commodity costs. Over the past three years commodity costs have increased by $4 billion. We have offset only about 75% of these increases with pricing to date. While commodities such as oil, which we don't actually buy, have moderated, a representative basket of key materials we do purchase is 20% more expensive today than at this time last year. For example, the spot price of super absorbents and surfactants are both up 25% versus a year ago. Costs are up even more in markets that have experienced significant currency devaluation. In countries such as Russia, Ukraine, Poland and Mexico, costs of US dollar denominated inputs are up sharply and in many cases still rising. We continue to monitor price gaps and the relative consumer value of our brands. We will take appropriate action when needed, but we do not currently see the need for broad scale pricing interventions. Importantly, if it does become appropriate to reduce prices in the future we would expect volume growth to reaccelerate.

Next, let me touch on the credit markets and our debt portfolio. We continue to choose commercial paper as a vehicle to cover about 30% of our financing needs. We have had uninterrupted access to this market. We're currently issuing in very comfortable maturities of four to six months with coupon rates of about 50 basis points. Our commercial paper program is back stopped by undrawn lines of credit. These lines of credit were renegotiated over the past 18 months and are primarily five-year facilities.

P&G's access to the term market is very good and rates are attractive as well. In September we issued two floating rate bonds valued at a combined $2 billion at three and 18 basis points over LIBOR respectively. And just last month we issued a $2 billion five-year fixed rate note at a coupon of 4.6%. All three offers were oversubscribed. These rates are lower than the rates on the bonds that are maturing over the next 18 months. We remain committed to our AA minus credit rating and to returning cash to our shareholders through dividends and share repurchase.

Moving to guidance, we believe it is prudent to broaden our guidance ranges for the foreseeable future in response to all of the uncertainties we have talked about today. We expect fiscal '09 organic sales growth of between 2 and 5%. This lower range reflects second quarter results and continued uncertainty. Price/mix should contribute 4 to 5%, organic volume is expected to be flat to down 2%. Since analyst day, foreign exchange markets have remained very volatile. The dollar strengthened versus the British pound, the euro, and the Russian ruble; but depreciated versus the Japanese yen, the Australian dollar, and the Filipino peso. These moves have largely offset each other. As a result, we continue to expect foreign exchange to reduce sales by 5% on the year. Acquisition and divestiture impact should be a neutral to negative 1% impact on sales growth and total we expect all-in sales to be flat to minus 4%.

We continue to see operating margin about flat for the year including Folgers restructuring costs. And the tax rate on continuing operations should be between 27% and 28%. We're comfortable with the current consensus earnings per share estimate of $4.29 which is approximately at the midpoint of a revised fiscal 2009 earnings per share guidance range of $4.20 to $4.35.

Now for the March quarter, much of the credit induced inventory contraction manifested itself in the December quarter. However, there is likely to be additional impact going forward. If consumer confidence around the world continues to drop, we would expect consumption and more discretionary categories to be further impact. These considerations are reflected in wider guidance ranges for the March quarter. Organic sales are expected to grow 2 to 5%. Within this, price mix should contribute 5 to 7% to sales growth. We expect organic volume to be down 2 to 3% versus year ago. Foreign exchange is estimated to reduce sales by high single digits and acquisitions and divestitures are expected to be neutral in the quarter. In total, we expect all-in sales to be down 2 to 7%.

Operating margin for the quarter will be down modestly versus prior year including incremental Folgers restructuring. Commodity costs and volume de-leveraging impacts should be largely offset by productivity improvements and cost savings programs. We expect earnings per share to be in the range of $0.78 to $0.86 per share, including Folgers related restructuring charges. We wouldn't typically comment on the June quarter at this time but when your models are updated you will see we expect operating income to significantly improve versus the March quarter. This will be driven by a smaller commodity impact, a reduction in trade inventory head winds, fuller implementation of productivity and cost reduction programs, as well as price increases being executed currently to recover transaction impacts of foreign exchange movements in developing market.

So, in summary, we continue to operate in a very difficult environment. Despite this, we are growing organic sales and earnings per share. We are maintaining global value shares. Our cash flow and balance sheet remains strong, and we are returning cash to shareholders through share repurchase and dividends. A lot of uncertainty remains, but the entire management team is fully engaged and focused on the fundamentals that are important for success in our industry. We're continuing to improve productivity and simplify our work processes and organizations. These are the right things to do in the short term and will build an even stronger company for the long term.

AG, Teri, and I would now like to open the call for questions.

OPERATOR: Thank you. (Operator Instructions). In fairness to all participants we would like to ask to you limit yourself to one question today.

We'll turn first to Nik Modi with UBS.

NIK MODI, ANALYST, UBS: Good morning, everyone. I'm just curious on your thoughts about the magnitude of volume declines we're seeing across many global HPC companies and impact on the promotional environment over the next 12 months. The way I look at it, are we heading back to the old school price war as commodity costs roll down and the consumer remains under pressure?

AG LAFLEY, CFO, PROCTER & GAMBLE COMPANY: I don't think so, Nik. If you look at the volume trends, I think they're clearly a function of two things, the fact that markets are slowing, for the most part, still growing, but, some as John said of, the more discretionary ones actually declining. And they're a function of what we hope will be relatively short-term inventory draw-downs by our trading customers and by consumers, and I think that behavior is understandable. We've seen it in every other recession.

I think what you want to watch is the relative changes in share position. I'm pretty pleased with this quarter that we just completed, because, for the most part, we held our share position, or we were able, in some important cases, like hair care, to modestly improve it. I'm also pretty pleased because if you look at the businesses where you can do head to head comparisons, the paper businesses, the beauty care businesses, some of the other businesses, we're holding up pretty well. I think we're in a relatively strong strategic position and we're operating well. So, I think that unless you see big changes in market share positions, that you will see pretty rational behavior on the part of all of the players in the different industries.

Now, the one thing I will say, there's absolutely no doubt in this environment that consumers are looking for value. And as John tried to point out, sometimes that means a low opening price point, an affordable price point, okay, and that's why our basic lines, that's why the Gains and Luvs of the world do relatively better. That's why private label grows, okay, in recessionary times. But in many cases, value comes with innovation and higher price point. And the thing that we're heartened by is a lot of our value added offerings in our category and brand portfolios are holding up very well and, in fact, growing a lot of share. That just simply means there are different consumer segments out there that have different sets of needs and a different consumer value equation. So, sort of long winded way of saying, I don't think you are going to see a lot of -- I don't think you are going to see a return to irrational price wars. I do think you will see a lot of us dialing in the right values to make sure we're offering consumers a good value, but I don't think you are going to he see any big shifts.

OPERATOR: Now we'll turn to John Faucher with JPMorgan.

JOHN FAUCHER, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Yes, good morning. In looking at your organic revenue growth guidance for the fiscal third quarter, it seems as though generally you are looking for a little bit of an acceleration there. And given the fact that fiscal Q2 really only had, from what we can tell, two bad months, can you walk us through some of the components in terms of less deload impact, you're seeing that already, improvements in Tide, what have you, that give us confidence that you can accelerate the organic top line in a quarter where you are going to have three bad months as opposed to two bad months? Thanks.

AG LAFLEY: John, I will start out. First of all, we're getting more traction each month from our pricing and from our mix moves, right. So we're actually seeing sequentially month by month an improvement, a relative improvement in our price mix. Secondly, we know exactly what our innovation and initiative program looks like for the January-March quarter, and we have a number of strong initiatives that were either just launched in the quarter that closed in December, are being launched or will be launched in January, March that actually sweeten the mix. And then I guess the third thing is we should see the inventory situation begin to moderate a little, but frankly I want to stay cautious there until we actually see it.

OPERATOR: Next up is Lauren Lieberman with Barclays.

LAUREN LIEBERMAN, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Thanks. Good morning. Just a question on mix. Something I've been asking about for a couple of quarters, and I understand that consumers will continue to pay for value, like in Always Infinity, but I'm actually surprised that mix was still positive in the quarter given examples like Tide being down double digits, or developing markets outpacing developed market growth. So if you can -- and the mid tier growing faster. If you can explain how mix is still positive, and also, AG, following up on your comments on innovation initiatives for the third quarter, have you done much consumer testing on those that says consumers will be ready for mix enhancing purchases in this environment, or were those things tested six months ago when people had a little bit more money in their pocket?

AG LAFLEY: Let me take the last question first. As you might imagine, the consumer testing is intensive, it's relentless, and it's ongoing, and every Monday morning, when we get together, we look at the latest consumer data on just about anything we can get our hands on. So you are on a very important point there, Lauren. It's got to be timely consumer data.

Clearly, I mean, let's take the Tide example, okay. Where Tide has lost -- first of all, the double-digit drop, just to be clear, in fabric, was on the earnings side, right. The top line has held up better, of course. But if you look at the Tide portfolio and the tide mix, where we felt the pressure is in the basic Tide offerings. That's where consumers are shifting to gain or trying one of the price brand alternatives, whether it's private label or a manufacturer's brand. We introduced Tide Total Care. I think we've done $100 million to $150 million on Tide Total Care. That's the rate. On Tide Cold Water it continues to do well. It's sold at a premium per load.

We still sell a fair amount of Tide with a touch of Downy and Tide with Febreze. So for those consumers that represents a good value. Some choose not to use a fabric softener, some want a little more fabric softener freshness and fragrance in their load, so it's really hard to generalize across a mass consumer audience because a mass consumer audience doesn't exist any more. If you step back on your mix question, we're still benefiting from some geographic mix positives, and if you look, as I said, in a number of the category and brand portfolios, we're benefiting from some positive mix. If you think about what the consumer pays for most of the P&G portfolio, almost everything we sell is sold between $1 and $10 a unit. We're not talking about expensive items that can't be afforded, even in a recession. So, based on everything we see, we think that's what the price mix is going to be for the next quarter, and we'll hold that basic price mix for the year.

JON MOELLER: I'd just build on that with one point, and that's simply the strength in the current environment and to come of our premium price innovation. We're really in a good position across multiple categories, and consumers are responding.

OPERATOR: Now we'll turn to Bill Schmitz with Deutsche Bank.

BILL SCHMITZ, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Can we get some more granularity on the cash flow? It looks like free cash flow fell 60% year-over-year, then the cash conversion cycle keeps creeping up. It's crept up for a while. So I'm wondering if it's a one-time thing this quarter and why should it improve as we look out for the rest of the fiscal year?

JON MOELLER: Thanks, Bill. As I said in my prepared remarks we're still expecting to hit our free cash flow target this year. What you are seeing in the second quarter is really a year to year impact of accrual levels on marketing expense and things like interest expense which we expect to reverse as the fiscal year continues.

OPERATOR: Next up is Ali Dibadj with Sanford Bernstein.

AG LAFLEY: Hi, Ali.

ALI DIBADJ, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: I want to focus on operating margin leverage as it relates to SG&A. I guess I was surprised not to see as much cost cutting as I would have expected in this quarter given the SG&A didn't really improve as a percentage of sales there. How much of that is related to what John was kind enough to take us through in terms of fabric care particularly in terms of foreign exchange? Fabric care was hit by a negative 5% on the top line, but negative 15% on the bottom line so I want to get underneath that multiplier effect as relates to SG&A. As well, within SG&A, given the context that it sounds like advertising has come down, by how much, as you shift to the top line? And maybe just to add in, because you didn't quite answer the last question. Talk us through inventory, if you would, too, please.

AG LAFLEY: Why don't I start, then John can jump in. John talked about one of the key impacts in the short term on cash flow. The other one has been, we're in the process of, have already adjusted our production cycles, so we match what we make to what's ordered. And on the positive side there, Ali, we're working ever more closely well most of our major retailers so we can operate on a much shorter cycle. So we can produce more of what we manufacture to demand. So we're reasonably confident that that's going to improve, okay, as we go through the balance of the year. On the question about advertising, absolutely not.

We have held our marketing spending and our advertising spending and, in fact, what's really going on is that the advertising markets are softening, and for the same dollar, we're buying more delivery, okay. And when you look at our shares of voice, in many businesses we're actually improving our shares of voice, and that's what matters. What matters is share of spending or more importantly, share of delivery to consumers in the marketplace. On the first question, on SG&A, John, you want to start that, and then --

JON MOELLER: Really, Ali, what's happening on SG&A is fairly simple. We're seeing a deleveraging aspect related to the sales of volume decline which is offset in this quarter by the continued productivity savings, so we really see year on year the same level of productivity savings, but they've been offset by sales de-leveraging.

AG LAFLEY: Which was your Tide point. But if you step back, our productivity program that we first discussed at CAGNY, now nearly a year ago, and updated at the analyst conference in December, is on track and, in fact, we're accelerating it.

OPERATOR: Now we'll turn to Wendy Nicholson with Citigroup.

WENDY NICHOLSON, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Two questions. First one very quick. With the dividend yield being so high do you still plan to increase it next year or is there a chance that you sort of tone that down? Because I know that's been a long-term annual thing for you. But then my bigger question is, the comment that operating income was going to grow disproportionately in the June quarter because you would, in part, be finally realizing the benefit of pricing in emerging markets, I guess that surprises me, because the emerging market currency started to devalue way back in the December quarter. So I'm surprised that the pricing is lagging so much, and that's not the same as what we've seen from some of your competitors. So can you comment on that and say is that a gain, if you will, to capture some market share in the short term, or are you just having a harder time implementing that pricing?

JON MOELLER: Last question first. There are actually a number of factors. If you look at October-December, the biggest impact was commodities, the second biggest impact was currency, okay. The smallest impact was the drawdown in inventories by the trade in consumers. So roll forward to the June quarter, commodities look a lot more positive in the June quarter than they do in the December quarter so we're going to get a lot of help from commodities. Currency, who knows. We're staying conservative. Then as John described, we think that we'll get a little bit better, okay, on the volume trend as we move through the balance of the year, but those are the primary -- the primary driver is commodities.

AG LAFLEY: And the terms of the question on the timing of the price increases and developing markets, the major moves really occurred at the end of the October-December period, and as we've talked before, previously relative to commodities, it takes a period of time to get those prices fully implemented and reflected on the shelf. That period of time relates to our normal customer planning cycles. On dividends, we've paid dividends as a company since the year we were incorporated 118 years in a row. We have increased the dividend for 52 consecutive years. We're projecting continued profitable growth, and I would expect, therefore, the dividend trend would remain.

OPERATOR: Andrew Sawyer with Goldman Sachs. Please go ahead.

ANDREW SAWYER, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: I was wondering if you could talk about the long-term sales growth objective, and I guess taking a step back, kind of during the peak of the cycle when emerging markets were strong you're getting pricing, putting up 5%, and now we are looking at more trough numbers that are, I guess as low as 2%. I guess maybe could you walk us through why the taking of the long-term organic sales growth might need to come down a little, why we might be overreacting to weak discretionary spending or is that something that you guys are evaluating?

AG LAFLEY: I would say, the simplest way to think about this is we're evaluating it, and every year we go through our strategic growth models by industry and we build it up for the Company. My question would be, what's long term? Right now, frankly, we're focused like a laser on today and this week, okay, and making sure we're on top of what consumers want and need, and we're working closely with our customers and suppliers. You have seen us. We've moderated our gross goals in the foreseeable future. We have widened the range a bit from two to five. That looks right in the short term.

I think we're going to have to see where -- when we come out of this what looks like it is going to be a global recession. We are going to have to see how deep the recession is. We are going to have to see when we come out, and we are going to have to see what GDP and market growth looks like when we do come out. And then we'll be realistic. The one thing I think you can hopefully you can count on us for, is when we started this decade in 2000 the first thing we did is we took down the growth goals because they weren't realistic. And the first building block of our growth is market growth. So we'll look at where we think market growth is going to come out, and then we'll have the same building blocks. We'll have a building block for what we think we can do with innovation and share growth. We'll have a building block for what our ongoing acquisition strategy is going to be, and then whatever that adds up to will be our long-term goal. But I think we're in a very volatile and obviously uncertain period, and it is going to take months and quarters for that to sort out.

JON MOELLER: There's nothing that we have seen in the near term which causes to us definitively move off that goal. There's nothing that says that consumer behavior and normal economic times has fundamentally changed, and the worst operating environment we've seen in a very long time we grew organic sales at 2%. Certainly not 4% to 6% but not negative. And as AG says, we'll just to have see how this plays out.

OPERATOR: Chris Ferrara with Merrill Lynch.

CHRIS FERRARA, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: Thanks, guys. I was wondering if you can talk about -- I guess, John, earlier you referenced commentary on category growth. Can you give an update on what you think those category growth rates are for Western Europe, North America, and the US? Sorry, developing markets. Also I guess what percentage of your global categories are you gaining share in right now, say over the last three-month period? Thanks.

AG LAFLEY: Okay. On the last one, we really look at by business, by industry or category, and by region what our share performance is, and we're growing modestly in the EMEA world, growing modestly in Asia. We're actually growing modestly in L.A, and we've given up a little bit of share in Western Europe and the US. Total global picture is we're basically holding. If you look at any period past 4 weeks, past 8 weeks, past 12 weeks, past 6 months, it is pretty much a holding pattern. And that's not surprising, because we -- I think the recession hit harder in the US, and we've been managing through in the last six months a period when we have been frankly leading the pricing up. When you are leading the price up, we know there's going to be some short-term period of exposure.

But it is the right thing to do. We're leading it up in a way that's measured. We're leading it up in a way that's still delivering consumer value. We're leading it up in partnership with our retailer partners, and we're leading it up in a way that maximizes and optimizes value creation. In the US markets, what's really going on is there's some slowing, okay. So if you look at all the categories that we're in, this is roughly 40% of our total business, if you look at all the categories that we're in, we're still looking at 4% value.

JON MOELLER: 3 to 4% value growth North America. We continue to see higher growth in developing markets, albeit somewhat decelerated, 5% to 6%. No surprise, Western Europe and Northeast Asia continue at about flat to 1%.

AG LAFLEY: Now, the one phenomenon that is occurring is there's a widening between the volume dynamic and the value dynamic. But again, that's understandable. That's understandable given what's going on in the currency market, especially in developing markets, but not only in developing markets, in what's going on with pricing over the last year. But we're actually fortunate. We're still in an industry that's growing. It's slow. It's a slog, but it's still growing.

JON MOELLER: Both on volume and value terms.

OPERATOR: We'll turn to Joe Altobello with Oppenheimer.

JOE ALTOBELLO, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER: One quick question on retailer inventory destocking situation. Sounds like it is not getting better in January. Wanted to see if you could confirm that. Secondly, most retailers, or I should say a lot of retailers have a January fiscal year end. I'm curious if some of this destock on their part is window dressing ahead of the fiscal year end, and have you gotten indications that ordering patterns may return back to normal once we get past that into February?

AG LAFLEY: I'm not going to use your description but I worked in retails in my 20s before I joined P&G at 30, and I think everybody in the business knows that you get your inventories as low as you can before you close your fiscal year. In part, it's self-defense. It's fewer things to have to count, but in part, you want to make your business and financial results look as good as possible. So obviously there's some year-end -- there's some year-end drawdown. You are right, we don't -- we probably haven't seen the end of it, or even the bottom in some of our categories.

I think what's more important is what will be the new inventory levels that they try to operate on starting in February, and clearly, and some prominent retailers have been pretty public and vocal about this, clearly, they're trying to operate at lower inventory levels, and you know what, so are we, but in order to pull that off in a way that's really going to work, we're going to have to have much better integrated systems and much better coordination, and we're working hard on that. The other thing that's still a little bit more of an unknown, and we monitor consumer panels to track this, is what consumers are really doing. We have some businesses that are discretionary, and I think they're easy to understand. Fragrance, clearly people backed off in the fragrance market. The good news is we grew share. There are purchases -- you can delay a $200 electric shaver purchase, okay. Salon visits. We know women are stretching out their salon visits. Some are not going, and only coloring at home or whatever. Others are stretching out the time between visits. So I think those are fairly well-known.

We have some other businesses where pantry inventories are built up. You would be amazed how many batteries are on hand, and unfortunately we have been amazed by how many batteries are on hand, but that will get drawn down in a period like this. But we really need to understand what consumers are going to do sort of business by business with our pantry inventory. So that's the one we'll keep watching. But I want to be cautious on inventories. I don't want to assume that it is going to end. The last thing I would say is, what will determine where retailers and manufacturers end up on inventory levels will be the balance between in-stock and service level on inventories.

And we already know that some customers, they have pushed it too far, okay. We have improved our in-stock position sort of quarter to quarter, month to month, but we sort of are hitting a level that we're not getting additional improvement, and one of the reasons we're not getting additional improvement is because the inventory levels have been drawn down too far, and that's not a good trade-off. You can do the math. That's just not a good trade-off. So the smart retailers won't let the inventories go too low.

JON MOELLER: As AG indicates, that dynamic is essentially self-limiting at some point. We're currently seeing broadly, US out of stock levels at the highest levels in 24 months.

OPERATOR: Now we'll move to Connie Maneaty with BMO.

CONNIE MANEATY, ANALYST, BMO CAPITAL MARKETS: I have a follow-up, and if I could ask a separate question on skin care. It seems to me that at some time ago sophisticated manufacturers were doing automatic replenishment with their major partners, so if that's the case, were you not making products to demand for some time? So the first question is, what kind of increase in this making to demand are you seeing? And then secondly, I have a question on skin care. As you talked about this period being one also of opportunity. It's such a cluttered, messy category, even with your own products. I see print ads with Affinity and Regenerist. I imagine if women don't know this sort of stuff they're wondering why you are advertising two brands. But in some categories, we're seeing the weaker players being squeezed out. So I'm wondering what the opportunity is in skin care to make it easier to shop and to gain more market share.

AG LAFLEY: Okay. First on the produce to demand, yes, we are on a journey to increase the amount of our business that we cover with produce to demand. But you have to understand that even in certain categories where we produce to demand, ultimately, the retailer sets his inventory level. So, I mean, a very simple thing like the number of cartridge packs, per hook, okay, in the store, when that's prescribed by the retailer, and when it doesn't have enough holding power, we have an in-stock problem, okay. And as John said, if you walk, as I often do, on the weekends, stores that are representative of our major retailers, they just don't have the holding power, either because they set the in-store inventory bogey, or target too low, or because they're not replenishing at a rate they need to replenish to keep the stock -- to stay in stock on the shelf.

So what are we doing about it? One of the things we're doing about it is we have a large organization called Retail Pulse, and we've increased our investment in Retail Pulse. Retail pulse, merchandisers that physically go into stores and work with retailers where they permit this kind of support, and make sure that we're in stock that we're priced right, that the category is allocated right. More importantly, we're working with a number of retailers on getting the shelf sets and category assortments right. And that really, in the end, is going to be the solution. And still, unfortunately, too many retailers are over assorted, and they're not really assorted by the principle of space according to movement, and therefore they don't have enough holding power for the fastest moving brands and SKUs. So Connie, it's a real problem, it's an ongoing problem, we're working on it. And there's real benefit there for us.

On skin care, the good news is, channel trade-down. I mean, clearly, you are all following what's going on in department stores, and that is not just a US phenomenon, and there's trade-down and out of department stores and specialty stores, and in a number of beauty categories, and personal care categories, there's trade-in to our channel, and that's good. And we've been on a crusade for a decade or more now to democratize beauty and to make it accessible to more women, the best products, accessible and affordable for more women. We do have to be careful on the portfolio. As Terry reported we're actually growing share on the Regenerist and Affinity lines. I think what that says is we know who that consumer segment is, and we're very clear with her that we're speaking to her, and we're very clear with her about the benefits and the value of what we offer. I also think that in categories like this, there's a real opportunity to sort out, and that's going to require these category resets that I was talking about earlier, and we are working on that with major retailers. Fortunately, we're essentially a two-brand player in skin care, SK2 is actually coming back. And Olay is holding its own and is one of the largest skin care brands in the world so I think we're relatively well positioned.

OPERATOR: Now we'll turn to Alice Longley with Buckingham Research.

ALICE LONGLEY, ANALYST, BUCKINGHAM RESEARCH: Good morning. One follow-up and one new question. On your categories altogether in the US you said in value terms they were up 3 to 4% in the quarter, all retailers included. What was the volume performance so that maybe we can see that pantry deloading? My other question is could you give us a little bit more gross margin guidance for the third quarter and the year and specifically can gross margins be up in the third quarter. Thanks.

AG LAFLEY: Okay. On the category volume trends, where it's three to four, I have the US numbers at hand, it is in the same three to six-month period, it's sort of up ,0 2 or 0.3 to 1.01 to 1%, so that's the gap you are seeing, okay. About a 2 to 3% gap between volume shares and value shares. And on the second question,.

JON MOELLER: Gross margin going forward should get sequentially better, primarily driven by two dynamics. One, the abatement in commodity costs going through cost of goods sold as we move forward, and two, as we've talked about earlier, the full reflection of pricing.

OPERATOR: Now we'll turn to Bill Chappell with SunTrust Robinson Humphrey.

BILL CHAPPELL, ANALYST, SUNTRUST ROBINSON HUMPHREY: also a quick follow-up and another question. Can you give us a quantification of what you think destock will do to organic volume in the next quarter, in the third fiscal quarter, and just as a new question, on advertising versus promotion, as you look going forward, certainly ad rates have dropped pretty dramatically. Do you look at change the mix and maybe step up your trade promotions to try to attract more of the value consumer?

AG LAFLEY: Okay, John talked about the guidance, so I'll let him comment on that one. On the mix, the marketing mix, it just varies across industries and categories. I mean, what we do in fem care is going to be totally different from what we do in laundry detergent, which is going to be totally different from what we do in oral care, okay, so they're situational. Having said that, we have been shifting support in general to the store and the point of purchase, okay, but it's not trade spending in the sense of just handing the trade more money, okay. We don't do that.

We pay for performance, okay, but if you walk stores you would see our performance and value messaging much more prominent on shelf, on package, on display. It is couponing, in markets where couponing is a well established consumer habit, and coupon redemptions go up in recessionary times, markets like the US we've clearly shifted dollars to coupons, but if you look at the way we coupon, every one of our coupons has a brand equity communication message on it, and hat a performance value message on it, so it is not just $0.50 off your next purchase. And then, depending on the market, we're doing more digital, and there are a number of categories that are doing quite well with digital. But I think the simple way to think about it is we do market mix modeling. We actually calculate the return on investment on every brand, on every element of the mix, and we move the dollars around to where the dollars are more effective and more efficient.

BILL CHAPPELL: And on your question of organic volume growth in the third quarter, as I said earlier, we're guiding to down 2 to 3. There two are dynamics behind that. One, as AG said, we are going to be prudently conservative going forward. We still expect there to be some inventory dynamic in the first part of the quarter. Second, as I have mentioned, we are currently raising prices in parts of the developing world to offset the transaction impacts of devaluation and that will obviously have a volume impact as well.

OPERATOR: And with that we'll conclude today's question and answer session. I will turn the conference back to you for any additional or closing remarks.

AG LAFLEY: We'll be, John and Terry and Mark and John, we'll be available the rest of the morning and the rest of the day for any questions that you have. Thank you very much for your attention, for your questions, and for your support. Have a good day.

JON MOELLER: Thanks, everybody.

OPERATOR: With that we will conclude today's conference. Thank you, everyone, for joining us today.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
prgml : The Procter & Gamble Company
   IN
i258 : Cosmetics/Toiletries | icnp : Consumer Products | ipcare : Personal Care Products/Appliances
   NS
c11 : Plans/Strategy | c15 : Performance | ntra : Transcript | c151 : Earnings | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
ASC Partners, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020090206e51u00106
  


 HD
 Q1  2009  Procter  & Gamble Company Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
10,125 words
   PD
29 October 2008
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
Copyright 2008 by ASC Partners, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
OPERATOR: Good day, everyone, and welcome to Procter & Gamble's first-quarter fiscal year 2008/2009 conference call. Today's discussion will include a number of forward-looking statements. If you will refer to P&G's most recent 10-K and 8-K report, you'll see a discussion of factors that could cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from these projections.

As required by Regulation G, P&G needs to make you aware that during the call the Company will make a number of references to non-GAAP and other financial measures. Management believes these measures provide investors valuable information on the underlying growth trends of the business. Organic refers to reported results, excluding the impacts of acquisitions and divestitures and foreign exchange where applicable. Free cash flow represents operating cash flows less capital expenditures. P&G has posted on its website, www.P&G.com, a full reconciliation of non-GAAP and other financial measures.

   TD
Now I would like to turn the call over to P&G's Chief Financial Officer, Clayt Daley. Please go ahead.

CLAYT DALEY, VICE CHAIR & CFO, PROCTER & GAMBLE COMPANY: Thank you and good morning, everyone. A.G. Lafley, our CEO, and Jon Moeller, our Treasurer and newly appointed CFO, joins me this morning.

I will begin with a summary of our first-quarter results. Jon will cover business highlights by operating segment. I will then provide a quick update on Folgers and what we're seeing in the credit markets. Following that, I will briefly cover pricing, market growth rates and commodities. Before wrapping up the call with a guidance update, I will also talk about foreign exchange. Following the call as usual, Jon Moeller, [Mark Ursik], John Chevalier and I will be available to provide additional perspective as needed.

But before getting into the results, I want to comment briefly on the organization changes announced yesterday. It has been my plan to retire on or about this timing for several years. I have been fortunate to be P&G's CFO for the past 10 years, and by the time I retire next September, I will have worked for the Company for 35 years. I'm proud of what the Company and the finance and accounting function have been able to accomplish while I have been part of it. It has been a great experience, but I'm ready to move on.

I have been working with A.G. and the board on a seamless transition plan which ensures strong leadership for years to come. On January 1st, Jon will replace me as CFO. I have known Jon for most of his 20-year career with P&G, and I have directly with him for the past 10 years. Most of you had a chance to meet Jon at investor conferences and on your trips to Cincinnati. Jon is an excellent business strategist and operates with the highest level of discipline. He understands the importance of strong corporate governance. He has a deep appreciation for the operating principles that have made and kept this Company strong for so many years. Jon also appreciates the importance of maintaining open lines of communication between the Company and its shareholders, and I'm sure you'll find his perspective on the business insightful and helpful.

Replacing Jon as Treasurer is [Terry List]. In her 14 years with P&G, Terry has had a broad range of experiences across P&G's GBU, MDO and corporate accounting operations. She is currently the finance leader for our global operations unit. Prior to joining P&G, Terry worked in public accounting for nine years. Terry is a very strong business leader, and I'm sure you will enjoy working with her in the Investor Relations responsibilities. Terry will be attending our analyst meeting scheduled for December 10th and 11th in New York, and I encourage you to meet her there.

Now I did not plan to announce my retirement during a credit crisis, but the fact that I'm doing so is a testimony to the confidence that I have in the next generation of leaders. After all they are going to be managing my money, too. I'm sure you'll join me in congratulating Jon and Terry on their new appointments.

Now A.G. would like to make a couple of comments.

A.G. LAFLEY, CHAIRMAN & CEO, PROCTER & GAMBLE COMPANY: I have known Clayt Daley since the late 1980s when we worked together for Steve Donovan in what is now our Fabric and Home Care business. We have worked side-by-side on the transformation of P&G into a more diversified and more global leader in our industry. Together we have focused on more robust strategies at the Company and business unit level, on more balanced and sustainable growth both organic and from acquired businesses, on more disciplined and reliable operations and on stronger governance and risk management. With our colleagues on the global leadership counsel, we have developed an outstanding cadre of next generation P&G leaders, including Jon Moeller and Terry List.

I first met Jon when we asked him to move to China in the mid-1990s. Jon managed the corporate forecast when I became CEO in June 2000. He is an experienced and talented finance leader who has served in a number businesses and more recently as Treasurer with the responsibility for Investor Relations and Mergers & Acquisitions.

As Treasurer he has established the capital structure and strong balance sheet that will serve us well in the current environment. He has been working closely with Clayt and with me and with the Company's leadership for the last decade. He is the right leader to succeed Clayt.

This month P&G is 171-years-old. Over the last year, we have been putting in place some of the next generation of P&G functional leaders to lead this Company for the next decade -- Moheet Nagrath in Human Resources, Steve Jemison in Legal, Bruce Brown in R&D, Marc Pritchard in Marketing and now Jon Moeller in Finance.

I want to thank Clayt for his many years of dedicated service to P&G, and I congratulate Jon on his appointment as CFO. Now back to you, Clayt.

CLAYT DALEY: Thanks, A.G. Now let's move on to the results on the quarter.

The September quarter was the 25th consecutive quarter in which P&G delivered topline growth at or above the Company's target. We also delivered another quarter of earnings growth consistent with our long-term objectives and generated strong cash flow. Our portfolio continues to be a strength as does our focus on innovation and productivity.

Diluted net earnings per share increased 12% to $1.03 per share. This was $0.03 per share above the high-end of our guidance range.

Now $0.02 per share of our over-delivery was due to a shift of Folgers-related restructuring spending between quarters, which will have no impact on the year. The last time we gave guidance, we expected those incremental charges to be about $0.04 in Q1 and Q2 and $0.02 in Q3 and Q4 for a total of $0.12 for the year.

After incurring only $0.02 per share in Q1, we now expect $0.03 in Q2 and Q3 and $0.04 in Q4. Frankly, our people were simply too optimistic in how fast they could execute these incremental restructuring projects.

Now total sales increased 9% to $22 billion. Organic sales were up 5%. Organic volume was up 3% with mid and low tier brands growing organic volume several percentage points higher. Pricing added 3% to sales as price increases announced during the spring took affect in the quarter. Foreign exchange contributed 5 points to sales growth. Disproportionate growth in developing regions and midtier brands resulted in a negative 1% mix impact.

Gross margin decreased 240 basis points. This was slightly better than our guidance range of 250 to 300. SG&A expense was down by 180 basis points. Operating margin was, therefore, down 60 basis points, including the incremental Folgers-related restructuring charges. Operating profit increased 6% for the quarter to $4.7 billion. The tax rate for the quarter was 28.5%, slightly above guidance.

Turning to cash, operating cash flow was up 1% versus year ago at $3.3 billion. Free cash flow was $2.6 billion. Free cash flow was 76% of earnings below our 90% productivity target but consistent with September quarter norms. We remain on track to deliver our 90% free cash flow productivity target for the year. During the quarter we continued to repurchase stock at levels consistent with our three-year share repurchase program.

Now before I turn the call over to Jon for the business segment discussion, I want to remind you of a point we have been making repeatedly since our last call.

As expected, the pricing we have taken to recover commodity and energy costs has caused organic volume and organic sales growth rates to diverge and has resulted in higher levels of marketshare volatility. You will see evidence of these dynamics during the individual segment discussions. But despite this near-term volatility and a difficult overall operating environment, we have delivered and expect to continue delivering overall results in line with our long-term objectives.

Now let me turn the call over to Jon.

JON MOELLER, VP & TREASURER, PROCTER & GAMBLE COMPANY: Thanks, Clayt. Starting with the Beauty segment, the business delivered strong performance across the retail brand portfolio. Beauty all-in sales grew 12%, and organic sales grew 6%. Retail Hair Care volume grew high single digits behind midteens growth of Head & Shoulders and double-digit growth of Rejoice. Head & Shoulders was led by high-teens or greater volume growth in China, Russia, Saudi Arabia and India. Rejoice grew midteens in China.

The Pantene brand grew volume mid single digits, including double-digit growth in developing markets and low single digit growth in North America. Pantene's market-leading US all-outlet value share of more than 14% was up sequentially from the June to September quarters but remained down about a point versus the prior year.

Retail hair color shipments increased low single digits versus prior year as 20% growth on the Nice 'N Easy brand was largely offset by declines on other brands. Nice 'N Easy all-outlet value share in the US is up nearly 4 points to 21%, driven by the successful Perfect 10 innovation.

Unit volumes for professional hair declined low single digits versus prior year due primarily to market softness in both the US and Europe. Fine fragrance volume was also down low singles due to slowing market growth and changes in year-on-year initiative timing on major brands.

Despite this, P&G's global value share of fine fragrances increased one full share point to 15.8%.

Skin Care volume grew low single digits, including over 20% growth on SK-II. Olay Skin Care global volume increased low single digits despite high levels of competitive promotional activity in the US.

The Cosmetics business had a very strong quarter with double-digit volume growth. The Cover Girl brand grew midteens, driven by the LashBlast Mascara innovation. Cover Girl US all-outlet value share was up a point to 20% for the quarter.

In the Grooming segment, solid results on premium Blades and Razors systems were largely offset by soft Braun results. All-in sales for grooming were up 6% for the quarter, and organic sales were in line with prior year. Braun sales declined double-digits and volume was down midteens due to the exits from the North America home appliance and Tassimo coffeemaker businesses and soft retail markets for male hair removal products. Blades and Razors sales grew high single digits, driven mainly by price increases taken earlier this calendar year.

Volume was up low single digits, driven by strong growth in developing markets, which benefited from the expansion of Gillette Fusion and Venus and continued growth of Mach 3. Developed market volume was down slightly due to declines on legacy razors systems and a difficult Gillette Fusion comparison that included base period growth of over 50% in North America and Western Europe.

Importantly, Gillette Fusion all-outlet value share of the US Blades and Razors market continued to increase, growing nearly 2 points to 20%. And Gillette Fusion's global share of male cartridges increased 7 points to 24%.

In Health Care all-in sales grew 4%, and organic sales were equal to prior year levels. Good topline growth on the Oral Care and Feminine Care businesses was largely offset by declines in Personal Health Care. As expected, Personal Health Care results were negatively affected by sharp declines in shipments and sales of Prilosec OTC due to the loss of exclusivity earlier this calendar year.

Oral Care shipments were up mid single digits led by the Crest brand. Crest volume was up mid singles, including an increase of more than 20% in China. In the US Crest market leading all-outlet value share of toothpaste was in line with prior year at 38%.

Oral-B shipments grew low singles for the quarter, including mid single digit growth in developing markets. In the US Oral-B share of toothbrush was steady at 42%.

Feminine Care delivered solid volume growth driven by high single digit growth of the Always brand in developing markets and high-teens growth of Naturella. Always grew behind continued marketshare growth in China and the Always Ultra initiative across the Central and Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa region.

In the US Always all-outlet value share of the pad segment was in line with prior year at 58%, and share of the pantiliner grew 2 points to nearly 32%.

For Naturella continued market expansion in Central and Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa drove shipment growth of nearly 30% in that region.

Sales for the Snacks, Coffee and Pet segment increased 9%, and organic sales grew 7%. Each category delivered strong sales growth with pricing benefiting Coffee and Pet Care and with initiative-driven volume growth on Snacks. The Snacks business delivered mid single digit volume growth, driven by solid base business growth in North America and the Pringles Stix and Extreme Flavors initiatives. Pringles all-outlet value share of the US potato chip market is up modestly versus prior year to more than 14%.

Coffees sales were up double-digits, and volume grew low single digits behind the Folgers Roast and Ground restage initiative, the continued growth of the Dunkin' Donuts line and pricing taken in earlier periods to recover higher coffee bean costs. P&G's market-leading all-outlet value share of US coffee was in line with prior year at about 36%.

Pet Care sales increased high single digits, driven by pricing to recover higher input costs. Shipments declined low single digits as growth on the Iams brand, driven by the ProActive Health and Premium Protection initiatives, was more than offset by declines on Eukanuba.

Next, topline growth in the Fabric and Home Care segment was driven mainly by very strong global fabric care results. The Fabric, Home and Battery categories each experienced significant share volatility, driven by price increases implemented during the quarter. Sales for the segment increased 10%, and organic sales grew 6%. Volume increased 2%, and pricing added 4% to organic sales growth.

Fabric Care shipments increased mid single digits with solid growth in both developed and developing markets. In North America volume for the Gain brand grew low teens behind the Soothing Sensations initiative. In North America Tide was up high single digits, driven by the launch of Tide Total Care.

Prebuying by retailers ahead of the fabric enhancer price increase that went into effect late in the September quarter also drove Fabric Care shipments. P&G's all-outlet value share of detergents in the US was down about 2 points as lower shares on Tide were partially offset by increases on the Gain brand.

This near-term share volatility is consistent with expectations given the larger price gaps that occurred after pricing was initiated.

Home Care shipments were down versus prior year, due mainly to a strong base period that included the initiative launch for Febreze Candles and Mr. Clean Wipes. Volume was also down due to forward buying we mentioned last quarter, ahead of the June price increases on Dish Care and Surface Care.

US all-outlet market shares for the Dawn, Swiffer and Mr. Clean brands were all essentially in line with prior year.

Battery shipments were in line with prior year as growth in developing markets offset a modest decline in North America. Duracell's market-leading US all-outlet value share of alkaline batteries was down about a point to 49% for the past three months as private-label products gained share behind high levels of promotional activity.

Baby Care and Family Care delivered another very strong quarter with all-in sales growth of 10%. Organic sales also grew 10% behind our organic volume growth of 7% for both Baby Care and Family Care and pricing of 5%. Pampers Diapers global volume grew mid single digits, including low teens growth in developing markets. Pampers volume in China and Russia was up more than 30% and 20% respectively.

In the US P&G's overall diaper value share was down slightly versus prior year. Pampers Diapers share was down just over a point due to a market shift towards lower-price tiers. This shift benefited the Luvs brand, which grew volume nearly 30% and increased all-outlet value share by a point to 7% for the quarter.

Bounty and Charmin continued to deliver strong all-outlet value share gains despite price increases to recover higher costs. Charmin's US all-outlet value share increased more than a point to over 28% behind the Ultra Soft and Ultra Strong innovations. Bounty US value share grew nearly 2 points to 46% behind the best Bounty ever initiative.

That concludes the business segment review, and now I will hand the call back to Clayt.

CLAYT DALEY: Thanks, Jon. There are several topics that I would like to address today. I want to give you a quick update on Folgers, the credit markets, pricing, market growth rates and commodities. And then I will discuss foreign exchange impacts before providing a guidance update.

The Folgers exchange offer was commenced on October 8th. On October 16th Smuckers' shareholders approved the transaction, and we think that Smuckers will provide a great home for the Folgers business.

The final exchange ratio will be based on the volume weighted average price of P&G and Smuckers' stock tomorrow, Friday the 31st and Monday, November 3rd. It will be posted at 9:00 AM on Tuesday, November 4, and the offer will expire at midnight on Wednesday, November 5. The actual gain we will book on the transaction is a moving target, so for now we will continue to estimate the gain at about $0.50 a share. We will provide the actual number in the press release when the deal closes.

As I mentioned earlier, we are moving forward with our plans to spend approximately $0.12 a share or $400 million on incremental restructuring in order to eliminate the stranded overheads and offset the dilution caused by this transaction. These incremental restructuring charges impact operating earnings and will lower operating margin by about 50 basis points on the year.

Turning to the credit markets, P&G has a credit rating in the top 5% of all publicly traded companies. And as a 171-year-old company, we manage the business and the balance sheet for the long-term. This philosophy has built long-term shareholder value and has serviced us well in the current environment.

We have been accessing the credit markets without issue and remain comfortable with our cash flow and liquidity. Our businesses are largely self-funding. We generate about $1 billion of free cash flow a month with little or no seasonality.

Now moving on to pricing. For the past three years, we have been pricing to recover incremental commodity and energy costs on largely a dollar for dollar basis, not to recover margins. While this puts significant pressure on gross and operating margins, we believe this is the right approach long-term. Consumers around the world are under pressure, and we need to ensure that our brands are providing her and her family with a good value.

Most of the price increases we've previously announced went into effect over the last six to nine months. In many cases P&G was the first to raise prices in these categories, which has exposed our brands in the short-term to larger shelf price gaps, which in some cases has negatively impacted our marketshares.

Competitors in general are raising prices as well. They are facing the same cost pressures as we are. We are confident that our marketshares will recover when our price gaps return to more normal levels.

Now let me briefly comment on market growth rates. Our categories are growing 3% to 4% on a value basis in North America. Western Europe is flat overall with some countries actually declining 1% or 2%. Developing markets are growing at approximately 6% to 7%. This means that global market growth on a value basis is in the 3% to 4% range. Pricing is having some impact on unit volume growth with volume growing 1 to 2 percentage points below value on a global basis. We're seeing continued evidence of modest trade down, but private-label shares in our categories are still only up in aggregate about a half a share point, excluding the Prilosec impact on Personal Health Care.

Our tiered portfolio strategy continues to offer consumers a range of choices. Jon mentioned that Luvs shipments were up nearly 30%, and Gain volume increased over 10%, both of which demonstrate the benefit of our tiered portfolio.

Innovation is still driving trade up, and trade up is still working in the market. Gillette Fusion and Venus continue to gain share. Premium priced Clairol Perfect 10 hair coloring is growing share, despite very high levels of competitive activity. Our patented no drip applicator eliminates the messiness typically associated with home hair coloring and provides great results in just 10 minutes.

Regenerist Micro-Sculpting Cream is the number one facial moisturizing SKU in the category at $25 per unit. Good Housekeeping rates it more effective than department store products selling for $350. And Secret and Old Spice Clinical Strength Deodorant, which sell for two times the category average, both continue to perform well.

So while many consumers are under increasing financial pressure, great innovation is still working in the marketplace. Innovation works because innovation creates value.

Now let me shift to commodities and currency. These are two megaforces which are moving in opposite directions. Both forces will have a significant impact on our financial results but on different timing. Let's start with commodities.

There are three important things to understand here. First, commodity and energy markets have become increasingly volatile. Oil moved from $119 a barrel on August 5th to $98 a barrel on September 18th, back up to $123 a barrel on September 22nd, before moving to about $65 a barrel today.

Second, there is a lag between feedstock market moves and the price P&G pays for its materials and the ultimate impact of these materials on our income statement. Oil-based materials flowing through our cost of goods are still increasing, tracing back to the oil run-up in June and July. We actually will see most of the impact of the steep oil price run-up in the June/July period in our December quarter results.

Third, P&G costs are not directly tied to oil, and the spot prices of many materials are still increasing.

For example, phosphate averaged less than $600 a metric ton during fiscal 2007. Last year it averaged $1100 a metric ton, and currently it is close to $2000 a metric ton. Sodium sulfate and soda ash are both up over 50% versus a year ago, and both are still going up in price. LAB, which is a key surfactant derived from oil, is up 75% versus a year ago. As such, we expect commodities and energy to increase cost of goods again during the December quarter before moderating in the second half of the year. This will be a benefit, but it is likely to be offset by foreign exchange impacts.

Now on to foreign exchange. Historically we have told you that foreign exchange impacts are top-line more than our bottom-line and that the bottom-line impacts are largely translational in nature and that these are partially offset by natural hedges within the portfolio such as commodities.

Now while this is still true, we have seen unprecedented volatility in the foreign exchange markets recently, even more than in the commodity and energy markets. Since our last earnings call, we have seen almost a three standard deviation move in the euro, pound sterling and Russian ruble. The India rupee, the Brazilian real and the Mexican peso have seen currency fluctuations of 4, 7 and 8 standard deviations respectively.

The devaluation across the emerging markets that we're witnessing is unprecedented in its breadth, depth and speed. It is quite clear that none of the historical volatility numbers are valid in today's market.

We have also seen changes in the relationships between currencies and items that have historically provided us with a natural hedge. As a result of these volatility dynamics, we will see larger foreign exchange impacts than we have seen previously, particularly in emerging markets.

I want to explain what is happening in emerging markets in more detail so that you understand how we will be managing this and directionally what the impact is likely to be. To do this, let me use a hypothetical example.

Let's assume a business in a developing markets has half of their purchased raw and packing materials denominated in US dollars. All other costs, including SG&A, are denominated in local currency.

Now let's assume a 30% currency devaluation takes place relative to the US dollar. Input costs that are denominated in dollars go up 30% in local currency. This is the transaction impact of the currency devaluation. Everyone in the market experiences this transaction impact, regardless of their functional currency. This includes both multinationals and local manufacturers.

It is effectively an increase in commodity costs, which like other commodity cost increases we will plan to recover through pricing as appropriate or through formula cost savings or other cost reduction programs. When the earnings in this country are translated back into US dollars, they will then be worth 30% less. This is the translation impact of the currency devaluation.

Translation impacts are much harder to recover through pricing. The amount of pricing necessary is usually too much for consumers to absorb, and the translation impacts are not shared equally by everyone competing in a given market. So we have exempted the fact that most of the translation impact cannot be recovered in the current year.

I realize this is an overly simplistic description because underlying commodity costs are also moving, but it helps frame the general dynamics. Specific circumstances will vary by country, so we need to approach this on a market by market basis. So, in general, we expect the price to recover transaction impacts, but translation impacts will flow to the bottom-line.

Now let's talk about a partial offset in commodities. The last time we gave guidance we said that incremental commodity and energy costs would be about $3 billion this fiscal year. The moves that we have seen since then have lowered this amount by about $300 million, which is not enough to completely offset the translation impact we just discussed. We're offsetting the balance with our ongoing productivity and cost savings programs.

$300 million or about 30 basis points is also not enough to warrant revising our pricing decisions, but we will continue to watch consumer value very closely and make interventions as needed.

We already knew this was going to be a tough year. Given the amount of pricing, we needed to offset commodity and energy cost increases. That is why we have been focusing so much effort on improving productivity and managing all elements of cost with discipline. The timing impacts of foreign exchange and commodities will, of course, be different. Currency impacts will begin hitting the income statement immediately in the second quarter, while commodity benefits will show up later in the year. This is why I said at the Bank of America conference last month that there's going to be some sales and earnings lumpiness on a quarterly basis until the markets settle down.

With that, let me move on to guidance. We have historically provided relatively narrow guidance ranges. This was when volatilities were lower. With the volatility that we're seeing today in the commodity and foreign exchange markets, we think it is only prudent to widen these ranges. For fiscal 2009 P&G projects organic sales growth of 4% to 6%, in line with our long-term targets and unchanged versus our prior guidance. Within that, price mix should contribute to the 3%. Foreign exchange is now estimated to have a negative 1% to 2% impact. Acquisitions and divestitures will reduce sales by about 1% to 2%. In total, we expect all-in sales growth of 1% to 3%. This is 4 points lower than prior guidance. All 4 points on both the top and the bottom end of our sales range are solely due to foreign exchange. Organic volume is still expected to grow 2% to 3%. Gross margin, operating margin and tax guidance is unchanged versus our last call. We are widening our fiscal year 2009 EPS guidance to $4.15 to $4.25 per share versus our prior guidance of $4.18 to $4.25 per share. This maintains the top end of our range, but recognizes continued volatility in both commodity and energy markets and foreign exchange. This range includes the estimated Folgers onetime gain of $0.50 per share and about $0.12 per share in incremental restructuring charges.

Turning to the December quarter, organic sales are expected to grow 4% to 6%. Within this, price mix should contribute about 4%. Foreign exchange is estimated to have a negative impact of 2% to 3%. Acquisitions and divestitures will reduce sales by about 2%. So, in total, we expect all-in sales to be about flat, ranging from negative 1% to plus 2% for the quarter. We expect organic volume to be flat to plus 2%. The credit crisis does appear to be having some impact on trade and pantry inventory that will impact October/December volume.

We expect earnings per share to be in the range of $1.45 to $1.50, including the $0.50 from the sale of Folgers and the $0.03 a share of additional Folgers-related restructuring charges that I mentioned earlier.

Commodity costs will impact the December quarter more than September, but we will see a greater benefit from pricing. As a result, gross margins should show some improvement versus the September quarter. Operating margin will be down modestly versus the prior year as productivity savings largely offset reduced gross margin.

In summary, P&G continues to deliver on our financial commitments. We're growing organic sales within our long-term target range of 4% to 6% and delivering double-digit earnings per share growth. Our cash flow and our balance sheet are both strong. The only real change is a prudent widening of guidance ranges reflecting the current marketplace volatility in both commodity and currency markets.

Most importantly, we remain committed to the fundamentals which we know build our business over the long-term. We continue to focus on leading innovation and improving productivity to deliver superior consumer and shareholder value. This focus on delighting consumers with trusted household and personal care products that consumers purchase weekly and use daily gives me continued confidence that P&G will deliver target growth over the long-term even in a very challenging economic environment.

And now we will take your questions.

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Nik Modi, UBS.

NIK MODI, ANALYST, UBS: First, I just wanted to offer my congratulations to Clayt and Jon and Terry. Onto my questions, it is pretty clear from almost every company that's sorting across global tables that emerging market growth has held up in the September quarter. But most investors are really worried about the environment since October and going forward. Can you just provide some perspective on what you saw after the quarter closed in terms of October trends and if you saw some kind of collapse or if things are still steady-state as they were in September?

CLAYT DALEY: Well, no collapse. We are, as you heard, we are projecting volume growth in the October/December quarter flat to up 2%. So we're expecting some moderation in volume growth, and that would apply to emerging markets as well. But we're certainly seeing no dive, if you will, in the growth rates.

A.G. LAFLEY: Nik, I just got back from a week in Asia mostly in -- a lot of it in China. GDP growth rates are slowing there, but they are still 9%. Okay? And while we're seeing some moderation in volume, a fair amount of that is due to the fact that we're leading pricing in developing markets, too.

So, for instance, in Central and Eastern Europe and Middle East and Africa where we were last month, we expected some moderation in volume, but our net sales trends have stayed strong at double-digits in (inaudible).

So I would say based on everything that we see, it is still holding up pretty well, and we are counting on emerging markets to continue to be half or more of our growth.

OPERATOR: John Faucher, JPMorgan.

JOHN FAUCHER, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: The calls just are not going to be the same without you. I have to say that. And a quick question on the organic sales growth target for the quarter. As you look at that price mix number, plus 4%, that is up 2% sequentially, is that more the pricing in Q1 rolling through? Because it sounds like given the commentary about brands like Luvs, etc. that the mix is going to stay at least as negative as it was this quarter.

CLAYT DALEY: That is correct. It is going to be priced. We had a number of price increases that were announced in the spring and summer that have become effective in the October/December quarter.

A.G. LAFLEY: Jon, if I could just say one other thing, too, on the mix side. Jon and Clayt in their comments mentioned that we are also creating value in the mid to upper end of a number of our categories with lines like Clinical Strength Deodorants, Perfect 10, the new line of Olay that was just announced, and you've got to remember we don't have one consumer here. We have a series of consumer segments. They all have different value equations, and we're trying to offer a balance. So affordable entry items like Luvs and Gain, Bounty and Charmin basic, etc. at the opening price points, and again items at the higher end, which represent a good value versus alternatives that may be sold in different channels.

OPERATOR: Bill Pecoriello, Morgan Stanley.

BILL PECORIELLO, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Congratulations to Clayt, Jon and Terry. A question more digging into the U.S. since mid-September when we saw this very steep falloff in consumer confidence. Just give us a little bit more color where you are seeing the further tradedown to lower tiers, consumers putting off purchases you mentioned. Deloading the pantry, slower category growth, accelerated channel shift. Where exactly it has changed the most on the margin since mid-September?

A.G. LAFLEY: Bill, I guess the first point that I would make, which I think is incredibly important, is while categories and markets are slowing in the US, they are still definitely growing. Okay?

So whether it is on a unit volume basis or whether it is on a net sales basis, we're still looking at growing markets in the US, which is a different situation than Western Europe or Japan, for example. And I think that is important.

The second thing I would say is, while private-labels are clearly growing, in 19 or 20 of our top 24 categories they are not impacting us. We are either holding or growing.

So there are a few places where we are being impacted. We mentioned in Jon's comments, we're being impacted in batteries. This is not unusual in recessions. Battery pantry inventories get drawn down, and consumers move more of their purchases into private-label. In fact, it is not unusual for consumers to try more private labels during economic downturns.

We are seeing some move to private-label in Coffee. We're holding our share. We're seeing some move to private-label in Fem and Pet. Although off a very small base, we're holding our share. Obviously Prilosec we're getting hurt by the generic in the first year of launch, and we have reported that. But those are pretty much the markets where the private labels are having any impact on us.

Fortunately in the categories like Baby Diapers, like Family Care, Tissue/Towel is one that is usually affected in a recession, and we're growing share on towels, and we're growing share in bath tissue.

So I think we have done -- the thing I like about the way we have gone into this downturn is we have stronger portfolios in place across categories and stronger portfolios in place across leading brands. And most of the share volatility we have seen, the modest share loss have been more tied to us leading pricing than they are tied to some move that is being made by a competitor or a move that is being made by private-label.

OPERATOR: Lauren Lieberman, Barclays.

LAUREN LIEBERMAN, ANALYST, BARCLAYS: I guess a question. In the press release, it was mentioned the translation -- or sorry, the transaction benefits SG&A based on inventory levels. If you can just -- because, Clayt, you gave good detail on the hypothetical example, but can you explain how that works? Is that something that is sort of one-time in nature, probably does not repeat, how big it was as a contributor to SG&A this quarter?

CLAYT DALEY: I will let Jon take this one.

JON MOELLER: The impact that we've talked about in the quarter is simply balance sheet revaluation impact, so it is one-time in nature. The dynamics that Clayt talked about in terms of transaction and translation are ongoing, and the amount was not something we're going to get into in detail.

OPERATOR: Bill Schmitz, Deutsche Bank.

BILL SCHMITZ, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Clayt, we're going to miss your pretty face on CNBC in the morning, and congratulations to both Jon and Terry. Can you give us some of your assumptions on currency? Because I know you guided to negative 1 to 2 for the fiscal year, does that assume current spot prices, or do you guys have a forecast?

CLAYT DALEY: If I had a forecast, I would be at -- if I thought I knew where this was going, I would be at a trading desk. But no, we don't view ourselves at any point in time as any smarter than the forward curves on these currencies, and that is why I think that through the balance of the year, we're going to probably see this thing move around.

OPERATOR: Ali Dibadj, Sanford Bernstein.

ALI DIBADJ, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: A little bit of clarity, if you would, please. So it looks like for the year driven mainly by foreign exchange, your top-line comes down by about 4%. Your commodities come down by $300 million less than I would have expected. But your EPS obviously does not change nearly as much as I guess I would expect given those two things. So what other things are you doing to cut costs, and in particular, I want to go back to this SG&A expense, down 180 basis points this year. I think you really do need to break that out and try to help us understand how much of it was this one time it sounds like foreign transaction gain? How much of it is other things, and how much should we think about those elements as you break them out going forward, please?

A.G. LAFLEY: We will be talking about this in more depth in December. Recall our conversation that we began at CAGNY in February. We have been working for now three years on a productivity and growth program. We have test marketed a number of the initiatives in the businesses and in the geographies, and we're now rolling them out. And some involve organizational structural simplification and de-duplication. Some involve work processes that enable us to focus on the fewer things that deliver the most value.

In Fabric Care, for example, they have basically cut about 40% of the initiatives in their initiative portfolio on the small end. They have focused on the larger sized initiatives, and they have been generating a lot more incremental sales profit and ultimate value. And we're rolling this system, which, of course, we have an acronym for, across all the other businesses.

So we're driving productivity hard. And, as we said before, this is not a linear program. We are in sort of the first year when we're beginning to roll it more broadly, but this is a five-year program for us. And we think it is going to have a meaningful positive structural impact on the Company, and we hope we will end up with sustainable competitive advantage when we're done. But it really is attentiveness to productivity.

The other thing I would say is we have been very agile and flexible in the management of our formulation input materials and our formulation costs. We have talked about this before. We can pretty much formulate on the run in all of our formulated Household Care and Personal Care businesses.

And then lastly, I mean major initiatives like the move to compaction and concentration have real and significant cost takeout and, therefore, profit impacts over time for us. So it is all part of a program.

JON MOELLER: Relative to the sustainability of the SG&A decrease, you saw that dynamic each of the last two quarters. We have talked about next quarter continuing to improve SG&A and largely offsetting the gross margin impact. So you should assume that these productivity efforts are sustainable going forward.

CLAYT DALEY: The other thing I think we should comment on here is we try to build a financial plan for the fiscal year that assumes everything does not go right. And so last year it was commodities, and this year it is emerging market currencies. So I think what you're seeing here is you're seeing the impact of a Company that tries to make sure it builds a financial plan it can deliver.

OPERATOR: Chris Ferrara, Merrill Lynch.

CHRIS FERRARA, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: Just following up on that, again, I mean assuming you had FX turn negative commodities got better but not enough to offset. You have slowing categories. You need to cut costs more, and you have not changed your organic top-line growth rate at all. I mean I guess more conceptually, do you guys feel a little bit stretched at least in the near-term?

CLAYT DALEY: Well, I think as I alluded to in the last question, and as I think is quite clear in the fact that we widened the guidance ranges, I think the plan for this year has tightened up versus where it would have been two months ago, three months ago and, frankly, our ability to absorb this substantial emerging market currency move that has occurred. But, as I say, I think it is also a testimony to the strength of the plan.

A.G. LAFLEY: That is what I was going to say. We're basically on plan. Recall when we dialogued three months ago and we outlooked 0% to 3% organic volume growth for the quarter just completed and we delivered 3%, there was a fair amount of feedback that we were being too cautious and too conservative. But all we were doing was looking at what we were seeing in the markets and trying to be realistic about what we are seeing. And that is what we're trying to do in October/December.

As Jon and Clayt pointed out earlier, we do have a little pricing momentum, and we do have an initiative program that has some positive mix.

So if you look at our numbers, we're being a little more conservative on the volume side because we think it is going to be a tough quarter, especially for US and Western European consumers, and we think we're going to get a little bit of pickup on the pricing and mix side.

CLAYT DALEY: The other thing I want to conclude, and I think this is important, in the past when we have given a guidance range, everybody seems to assume that we are going to make the top of the range. That is not the assumption that you should be making in this environment.

OPERATOR: Andrew Sawyer, Goldman Sachs.

ANDREW SAWYER, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Congratulations to everyone all around. Just kind of drilling in a little bit on some of the business unit margins, in thinking about some of the divisions where maybe you have a little bit more commodity exposure like Fabric and Home and Baby, Baby and Family, I was kind of struck by the pretty strong margin behavior posting in Baby and Family. In contrast to Fabric and Home, it had a bit tougher quarter. I was wondering if you could walk through some of the drivers of each, especially with Fabric and Home having presumably some benefits from compaction flowing through?

CLAYT DALEY: Yes, I think really a lot of this is timing of pricing, that the pricing that has occurred in Baby and Family was largely implemented, and therefore, that business has managed to do a better job of maintaining the margin. And, frankly, a lot of the Fabric Care pricing did not go into effect until the October/December quarter.

A.G. LAFLEY: That is part of it, and the other part of it is Fabric bore more of the brunt of the commodities, especially the inorganics that Clayt detailed in his comments.

OPERATOR: Jason Gere, Wachovia.

JASON GERE, ANALYST, WACHOVIA: Good morning and again congratulations to everyone. I was just wondering if you could talk a little bit about the marketing mix? A.G., in the past you have been talking about really stepping up the in-store communication. So I was wondering if you could talk or share a little color on how you are measuring that and how that is transpiring in this very difficult US consumer?

A.G. LAFLEY: Okay. There are -- I thing there are two shifts that I would talk about this morning. The first one is actually a shift in the communication mix. Okay?

You will have seen in recent months more what I would call performance/value or value reframing communication from most of our major brands. Fairly hard-hitting, fairly comparative, very clearly educating, informing, reminding the consumer of the value that is inherent in the performance of our brands. And there are all kinds. Washing up twice as many dishes, getting your baby a good overnight rest for a very modest amount of money. You know, you can shave for less than $1.00 a week with the best performing shaving system in the world, that kind of stuff.

And frankly, I think some of our businesses and brands were a little slow getting to that communication mix. But we're getting there now, and you're going to see a lot of it from us, and we know it works with consumers. Okay?

The other side of the mix is the one that you referred to. We're clearly shifting more of our effort into the store, one obviously in a more recessionary type of environment. You know more decisions are made in the store, and we have to be competitive in the store. There is also more -- we're getting better at measuring the effectiveness of certain in-store communication vehicles.

The other thing we're doing is we're clearly targeting more, and that means for some of our brands that have more teams and a younger target, the money is shifting to the Internet or it is shifting to some alternate medium.

So I think you're going to see us -- hopefully you will see us continue the market mix model on a regular basis to analyze our marketing return on investment and to shift the dollars where they deliver the most value to the consumers we serve.

OPERATOR: Connie Maneaty, BMO Capital Markets.

CONNIE MANEATY, ANALYST, BMO CAPITAL MARKETS: Good morning and also congratulations to everyone.

Another question on currency. The currency impact is actually less than what I was figuring it was going to be. I'm wondering if it has to do with country mix. Because there are some countries against which the dollar really has not risen, including China, Japan and Venezuela.

So my question is that what percentage of sales do those three countries in particular represent of total? And secondly, since you do not break out geographically, what percent of sales in total and profit does the US represent?

CLAYT DALEY: Well, I think, as we have said, the US represents roughly 40% of sales and well over 50% of our profits. And obviously during this period, having a large, very profitable US business is a huge asset in this environment.

Your assumption is correct. We have a big and profitable business in China, and the Chinese currency has not moved. A similar situation in Venezuela. We can give you the exact numbers on the phone later in the day, or we can get you closer than I can spontaneously here on the call.

But yes, there is no question about the fact that our business mix is somewhat of a benefit here. The fact that we are overdeveloped in China, the fact that we are overdeveloped in the US. We do not like the fact that we are underdeveloped in Latin America, and we are, frankly, working hard to grow our Latin America business. But in some of the places where the currency moves have been the most severe, they have affected us a little bit less.

OPERATOR: Linda Bolton-Weiser, Caris.

LINDA BOLTON-WEISER, ANALYST, CARIS: Being that you are looking for additional ways to improve profitability and reduce costs, etc., maybe you could touch on a few of those kind of businesses where there's a lot of room for improvement and maybe touch on some of the actions or thoughts you're having about those businesses, specifically maybe Pet Care, Braun and even what is going on with Pantene and some of the Hair Care?

A.G. LAFLEY: Okay. I will start. First of all, our Hair Care business is the most profitable Hair Care business in the world. So that is not one where we're worried about the profit side. And they actually had a pretty doggone good quarter. Our five biggest Hair Care franchises all had pretty good topline growth, and we deliver the best margins in the industry by a fairly wide margin. So I do not worry about profitability and margins there.

We do have a few tougher businesses. You mentioned Braun, you mentioned Pet Care, and I would also add Wella. On all of those, we have got very active plans in place. Robert Jongstra is on the Wella business, and his, you know, job one is to improve the structural attractiveness of that business, and that involves obviously getting after the cost structure and improving the margins. Juan Pedro Hernandez we just moved to the Braun business, and he has got the same goal. And you see that we are already starting to shut down or move away from parts of the Braun business that are simply not attractive from a structural cost or profitability standpoint.

Pet, we're actually making progress on. Now it is fair to say that we are not at the margin levels of some of our best-in-class competitors, but we're making steady progress. We've got a very good plan there, and I think if we execute it, which we intend to, over the next few years, we're going to be in pretty good shape.

OPERATOR: Alice Longley, Buckingham Research.

ALICE LONGLEY, ANALYST, BUCKINGHAM RESEARCH: My question is on your volume forecast for the year. You're still holding to 2% to 3%, and yet the forecast for the December quarter is 0% to 2%, which seems to imply that you expect a pick up in volume in the March and June quarters. Can you explain why we should see that?

CLAYT DALEY: Well, I think we tried to talk about the fact that the October/December quarter is being impacted. We're seeing it in some trade inventory impacts as customers not surprisingly in this environment are trying to preserve cash and reduce their exposure to the credit markets. And you're right. We think that the second half will kind of move back more into the range.

A.G. LAFLEY: And, of course, we delivered a very strong volume number in the first quarter at 3%. So against our guidance of 2% to 3% on the year, it puts us in a very good position.

A.G. LAFLEY: And I guess the last thing I would say is the pricing will be in place. Looking at what has happened in other categories, usually over three to six months the pricing relationships return to sort of status quo before. And we know we pick up -- we're going to pick up a little bit of topline momentum when that happens.

OPERATOR: Bill Chappell, SunTrust.

BILL CHAPPELL, ANALYST, SUNTRUST: Just a question on the price increases. As you look beyond this next quarter, is it a question of when the price increases start to roll back or if they roll back? And I guess with that in mind, is it retailers that will eventually try to push for the rollback, or will it be price gaps where you need to -- and trade down that drive that I guess in light of the current commodity recession we are seeing?

A.G. LAFLEY: Well, first of all, remember that we're not seeing that commodity recession. (multiple speakers). You may be seeing it on television, but we're not seeing it in the reality in the marketplace. Because remember, there is a lag in any change in crude oil pricing. It can take three, six, nine months -- okay -- to move through our materials and, frankly, the inventories that we carry and the inventories that retailers carry.

Hey, listen, just so we are crystal clear on this, if commodities really move down in a meaningful way, we will adjust our pricing. We have always done that. Okay? And you see what we do in our Family Care or Tissue/Towel businesses. You see what we have done historically in our Coffee businesses. We're in the business of delivering good consumer value in the store and in the home and staying competitive.

So we will move if there is a reason to move. What we're trying to say is, we just don't see it yet. Okay? We don't see it. We see somewhat less commodity cost pressure, $300 million less, and we see an opportunity for commodities to improve in the out year. Okay? But we're still looking at the toughest year in this Company's history.

We're still looking at $2.7 billion in higher energy and commodity costs that we have to eat. Last year was the previously toughest year in this Company's history when we had to eat $1.5 billion in incremental costs. So we've still got a pretty tough commodity picture out there.

I think the one thing that we would say is we have taken most of the pricing that we have to take, except for the pricing we are going to be taking in emerging markets to cover the transaction component of currency.

CLAYT DALEY: We're obviously going to watch price spreads very carefully. We're not going to let our competitors buy our business away from us by undercutting us on price. But so this is the kind of thing where the market will play out during calendar 2009.

JON MOELLER: And remember that if we are in an environment in the future sometime when prices are going down, we would expect some pickup in volume.

OPERATOR: That will conclude today's question and answer session. Gentlemen, I will turn the conference back to you for any additional or closing remarks.

CLAYT DALEY: Thank you. Thank you all for joining us today. This will be my last conference call as I thought last night I have done about 50 of these conference calls, and I look forward to seeing you at our analyst meeting that will be held in the TimesCenter in New York City on December 10th and 11th. You will receive a formal invitation within the next two weeks that will provide all the details. All of us will look forward to seeing you there, and that concludes today's call. And, as I said earlier, we will be around the rest of the day to take follow-up questions on the phone.

Thanks very much.

OPERATOR: And with that, we will conclude today's conference. Thank you, everyone, for your participation.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
prgml : The Procter & Gamble Company
   IN
i258 : Cosmetics/Toiletries | icnp : Consumer Products | ipcare : Personal Care Products/Appliances
   NS
c11 : Plans/Strategy | c15 : Performance | ntra : Transcript | c151 : Earnings | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
ASC Partners, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020081105e4at0018i
  


 HD
 Q4  2008  Procter  & Gamble Company Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
11,927 words
   PD
5 August 2008
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.     

   LP
OPERATOR: Good day, everyone, and welcome to Procter & Gamble's fiscal year-end conference call. This call is being recorded.

Today's discussion will include a number of forward-looking statements. If you will refer to P&G's most recent 10-K and 8-K reports, you will see a discussion of factors that could cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from these projections.

   TD
As required by Regulation G, P&G needs to make you aware that, during the call, the Company will make a number of references to non-GAAP and other financial measures. Management believes these measures provide investors valuable information on the underlying growth trends of the business. Organic refers to reported results, excluding the impacts of acquisitions and divestitures and foreign exchange, where applicable. Free cash flow represents operating cash flow less capital expenditures. P&G has posted on its Web site, www.PG.com, a full reconciliation of non-GAAP and other financial measures.

Now, I'd like to turn the call over to P&G's Chief Financial Officer, Clayt Daley. Please go ahead.

CLAYT DALEY, CFO, PROCTER & GAMBLE: Thanks and good morning, everyone. A. G. Lafley, our CEO, and Jon Moeller, our Treasurer, join me this morning.

As is typically the case, we have a lot of information to cover on the year-end call. I will begin with a summary of our fourth-quarter results. Jon will cover business highlights by operating segment. I will then provide a brief update on commodities, pricing, markets and Folgers, and I will also provide guidance for next fiscal year -- or for the current fiscal year and the September quarter, and A.G. will then close out the call.

Now, onto the results -- P&G's business has performed well, allowing us to complete both the quarter and the year with sales, earnings per share and free cash flow at -- all at or above our long-term targets. The June quarter is the 24th consecutive quarter in which P&G delivered topline growth at or above the Company's target. We also delivered another quarter of high quality earnings and record cash flow despite unprecedented increases in commodity and energy costs. Our ability to consistently deliver our top and bottom line commitments is a direct result of the breadth and depth of our unique portfolio, the strength of our innovation, and our disciplined cost-management and productivity efforts.

For the June quarter, diluted net earnings per share increased 37% to $0.92 per share. This includes net tax benefits of $0.12 per share due to a number of significant adjustments to tax reserves in the US and other large countries. Excluding these tax adjustments, P&G's underlying business delivered $0.80 per share, $0.02 above the high end of our going-in expectations. Total sales increased 10% to $21.3 billion. Organic sales were up 5%; organic volume was up 4%. Pricing added 3% sales as previously-announced price increases took effect. Foreign-exchange contributed 6 points to sales growth.

Disproportionate growth in developing regions, large sizes and midtier brands resulted in a negative 2% mixed impact.

Quality of earnings was strong. Operating profit increased 13% for the quarter to $3.8 billion, and nonoperating profit was below year ago. Operating margin grew 50 basis points. Gross margin decreased 160 basis points. Higher commodity and energy costs impacted the quarter by over 300 basis points. Faster growth in Baby Care, family care and developing markets, reduced gross margin by about 50 basis points. We also increased restructuring activities in the fourth quarter in anticipation of the Folgers deal. These projects brought fiscal 2008 restructuring costs to slightly more than the top end of the range of $400 million. This resulted in a negative 30 basis point impact on gross margin in the fourth quarter. So without the change in business mix and increased restructuring, gross margin would have been down about 80 basis points.

SG&A expenses were down by 210 basis points. This was driven by tight cost control and overhead productivity improvements. Importantly, while SG&A has been down every quarter, advertising spending remained constant as a percent of sales for the year at 10.4%, even as we continue to improve efficiency.

Turning to cash, operating cash flow in the quarter was $4.1 billion, up $0.5 billion from the same period a year ago. Free cash flow was $2.9 billion, up $300 million versus a year ago. Free cash flow was 96% of earnings, ahead of our 90% productivity target. P&G generated $12.8 billion free cash flow during the year, an increase of over 20% or $2.3 billion.

Capital spending was 3.6% of sales, below the Company's target of 4%.

Working capital was up about two days versus a year ago, driven by higher inventory balances. Year-end inventory values were impacted by the run-up in commodity costs.

During the June quarter, P&G increased dividends by 14%, the 52nd consecutive year dividends have increased. For the full year, P&G paid $4.7 billion in dividends to shareholders. In July 2007, we announced a three-year, $24 billion to $30 billion share repurchase program. As part of that program, we repurchased $2 billion worth of stock in the June quarter, bringing the fiscal year total to $10 billion, at the high end of our $8 billion to $10 billion target range for the year.

Combining dividends and share repurchase, P&G distributed nearly $15 billion to shareholders in fiscal 2008, or over 120% of earnings. Based on the current market capitalization, P&G is providing shareholders a cash yield of over 7%.

To summarize, P&G continues to drive top and bottom-line growth despite a challenging cost and competitive environment. We have been pricing to recover commodity and energy cost increases, and we are driving productivity and operational efficiencies to expand operating margins. We are generating significant cash and are aggressively returning that cash to our shareholders while maintaining our AA credit rating.

Now, I will turn it over to Jon for a discussion of the business-unit results by segment.

JON MOELLER, VP, TREASURER, PROCTER & GAMBLE: Thanks, Clayt.

Starting with the Beauty segment, all-in sales grew 11% and organic sales were up 4% in a very competitive market. Olay skincare volume grew mid-single digits with over 40% growth in Central and Eastern Europe, the Middle East and Africa, and midteens growth in Western Europe. These strong results are driven by market share gains and continued distribution expansion. In the US, Olay facial moisturizer's leading all-outlet value share is in line with prior year at more than 44%.

Retail hair care volume grew 3% despite a base period that included pipeline shipments for the Pantene base brand restage in North America. Excluding North America Pantene, global retail hair care volume grew 6%, behind double-digit growth of Head & Shoulders and high single-digit growth of Rejoice. Head & Shoulders volume was up double digits in North America and Western Europe and tripled versus a year ago in Japan behind the Head & Shoulders brand relaunch. Head & Shoulders is now the number one shampoo in the world.

We expanded our retail hair care portfolio in June with the launch of the Gillette hair care brand in North America. We also strengthened our Prestige hair portfolio during the quarter with the acquisition of the Frederic Fekkai business.

Professional hair care and retail haircolor volume were both down slightly. Professional hair care shipments were down versus the prior year due to soft results in North America and Northeast Asia.

In retail haircolor, strong volume growth on the Nice 'N Easy brand was more than offset by declines on several smaller brands. Nice 'N Easy US all-outlet value share is up more than 3 points to over 20%, driven by share gains from the Perfect 10 line that launched in January. Nice 'N Easy has now grown sales double digits for four consecutive years and has doubled its market share over this time period.

The cosmetics business had a very strong quarter with high single-digit volume growth behind the continued success of Cover Girl Lash Blast mascara. Lash Blast is on track to be the largest global cosmetics industry initiative ever. Cover Girl's market-leading all-outlet value share in the US is up nearly 1 point to 19%.

In the grooming segment, all-in sales were up 12% for the quarter and organic sales grew 4%. This compares to a base period that included Blades & Razors organic sales growth of 13%, driven by the expansion of Fusion in European markets. Blades & Razors delivered solid sales and volume growth behind mid-single-digit market growth and continued market-share gains.

Global Gillette Blades & Razors' share increased versus prior year to 71%. Volume in developing markets grew double digits with over 20% growth in developing Asian markets and double-digit growth in Latin America behind continued distribution and market-share increases.

In the US, Fusion and Venus continued to grow value share, but these gains were offset by declines on legacy male systems. Fusion added 4 value share points versus a year ago and is now over 36% of the US male systems market. Venus added nearly 7 points behind the Embrace initiative and is now over 58% of the US female systems markets.

Shave prep shipments increased mid-single digits on double-digit growth in developing markets. In the US, Gillette shave prep all-outlet value share increased nearly 6 points to 36% behind the growth of the Fusion line. Braun shipments were down modestly, due primarily to the exit of the Tassimo coffee appliance business.

Healthcare all-in sales grew 7% and organic volume increased 3%. This was the first full quarter reflecting the loss of market exclusivity for Prilosec OTC, which negatively affected volume growth. Excluding Prilosec OTC, healthcare organic volume increased 4% for the quarter.

Family care volume grew high single digits with the Always brand up double digits and Naturella up more than 20%. In the US, Always all-outlet value share of the pad segment increased more than 1 point to 58%, and share of the panty liner segment grew almost 3 points to nearly 32%. These results were driven by the continued strength of the Always Clean and Always Fresh initiatives that launched last calendar year.

Expansion of Naturella in Central and Eastern Europe, the Middle East and Africa drove shipment growth of nearly 30% in that region. Naturella volume in Latin America grew double digits.

Oral care shipments were up for the quarter with growth of both the Crest and Oral-B brands. Crest dentrifice maintained its all-outlet value share leadership in the US despite intense competitive promotional activity. P&G's leading all-outlet value share of toothpaste in the US remained at about 38%, and Oral-B toothbrush value share held steady at 43%.

In personal care, shipment of volumes were down high single digits due to the competitive market entry against Prilosec OTC, which resulted in brand volume down more than 20% for the quarter. Despite intense competitive promotional activity, Prilosec OTC maintains a very strong 34% value share of its segment in the US.

Pharmaceutical volume was up low single digits versus prior year, as high single-digit growth of Actonel was partially offset by lower shipments of other minor brands.

Sales for the snacks, coffee and pet segment increased 8% for the quarter, and organic sales grew 4%. The snacks business delivered high single-digit volume growth and high-teen sales growth, driven by the Pringles Stix, Extreme Flavors and Minis initiatives. Pringles' all-outlet value share of the US potato chip market is up modestly versus prior year to more than 14%.

Coffee sales declined in mid-single digits, due mainly to an expected reduction in trade inventory ahead of the Folgers brand restage launching this month and due to temporary pricing disadvantages versus the leading branded competitor. P&G's all-outlet value share of the US coffee market was in line with prior year at nearly 36%, and Dunkin' Donuts is now approaching 4% value share after less than a year in-market.

Pet care shipments increased mid-single digits for the quarter, behind the Iams ProActive Health initiative for dogs and the Iams Healthy Naturals initiatives for cats. Sales were up double digits as pricing was taken to recover higher input costs.

Fabric care and Homecare sales grew 13% for the quarter with organic sales up 7%. Topline growth was broad-based with every region posting solid volume increases. Fabric care global shipments increased mid-single digits with balanced growth in developed and developing markets. Tide and Ariel each grew volume mid-singles, and the Gain and Downy franchises each grew high singles or better.

We completed the North American conversion to the concentrated liquid laundry format in the June quarter. We are on track to meet or beat every element of our success criteria for this initiative, including gaining distribution on new SKUs and delivering target shelf pricing.

Home Care shipments were up high single digits, led by North America with a double-digit volume increase.

Febreze volume grew double digits behind Febreze Candles and new scent innovations on Air Effects. Febreze's share of the instant action air care market is up 2 points to nearly 21%.

Dawn and Swiffer volumes were also up double digits, due partially to forward buying by retailers ahead of previously announced price increases effective in the September quarter. Batteries volume grew modestly for the quarter, as solid growth in greater China and Latin America offset modest declines in developed markets that were mainly due to market contraction. Duracell alkaline value share in the US was down about 1 point to 47%. In Western Europe, lower volumes were driven by trade inventory reductions in anticipation of the September quarter launch of a new Duracell marketing and promotional campaign.

Baby care and family care delivered an excellent quarter with all-in sales growth of 10%. Organic sales also grew 10%, and organic volume increased a very strong 9%. Pampers diapers global volume grew midteens with each region posting shipment increases. Developed markets grew mid-singles, and developing markets grew high-teens. China, Russia, Turkey, India, Saudi Arabia, Poland, and the Philippines all delivered double-digit diaper volume growth.

In the US, Luvs diaper volume grew midteens, and Pampers Baby Dry grew high single digits. In total, P&G all-outlet value share in the US diaper market increased nearly 1 point to 35%. In Western Europe, Pampers' market-leading diaper share was in line with prior year at a strong 54%.

Family care organic volume grew high single digits behind double-digit growth on Charmin and mid-single-digit growth on Bounty in North America. Charmin US all-outlet value share increased more than 2 points to over 28%, behind the Ultra Soft and Ultra Strong innovation launched nearly a year ago. Bounty US value share also increased more than 2 points to nearly 47%, a 43-year high, continuing to leverage the Best Bounty Ever initiative.

That concludes the business segment review. I will hand the call back to Clayt.

CLAYT DALEY: Thanks, Jon.

There are several important topics I want to discuss before getting into guidance -- commodities, pricing, market growth rates and Folgers.

Starting with commodities, the rate of commodity and energy cost increases has clearly accelerated. For the fiscal year just ended, we incurred approximately $1.5 billion in incremental costs. There's a great deal of volatility and uncertainty, so this is a moving target, but based on where spot and forward markets are today, we expect to incur about $3 billion in additional commodity and energy costs this fiscal year. This is higher than we anticipated three months ago, when we expected commodity and energy costs to be up more than $2 billion. Since that time, crude oil, diesel fuel and natural gas have each made moves of 25% to 35%. Other important materials, such as surfactants, alcohols and soda ash, have moved up sharply as well. Given the magnitude of this increase, I want to help frame the margins dynamics for you.

If we take the results from the fiscal year just completed and simply add $3 billion in commodity costs to cost of goods sold and $3 billion of pricing to net sales, holding everything else equal, our gross margin would decline by about 180 basis points and operating margins would drop by about 70 basis points, even though we would fully maintain our profit. A complete reconciliation of this is posted on our Web site so you can check our math.

Pricing beyond commodity and energy cost increases to maintain operating margin would be very risky, given the pressure that our consumers are under. So we are going to have to live with some amount of gross margin compression throughout this fiscal year. It is important to understand this to put our equal June, July, September and fiscal '09 results in the right context.

We have also previously announced that we will incur additional restructuring costs in fiscal 2009 in order to offset the dilution caused by the Folgers transaction. Now, I will say more about this later but these additional restructuring projects will lower operating margin by roughly 50 basis points.

So assuming we fully price to offset the impact of commodities and we execute our plan to offset Folgers dilution, gross margin would be down 180 basis points and operating margins down about 120 basis points. That's the starting point for fiscal 2009.

To manage our business against this backdrop, we are pricing to recover commodity costs and challenging every part of our cost structure. Since the last call, we announced price increases in oral care, family care, baby care, fabric care, health care, beauty care, home care, batteries, and pet nutrition.

On the cost front, each of our businesses is working to strengthen its ongoing cost-savings projects in manufacturing, product formulation and capital spending efficiency.

In SG&A, we are broadening and accelerating the overhead productivity program we discussed at (inaudible). We will also -- we also continue to improve return on our marketing spending while we increase our marketing investments at roughly the same rate as sales growth.

To summarize, commodity and energy increases will put pressure on margins even as we price to offset those increases, but what really matters is cash and profit, which will grow at our target rates this year.

Turning to our markets, on a global basis, market growth rates remain in the 3% to 4% range on a value basis and 1 to 2 points below this on a volume basis. Developed markets are slowing modestly but still growing for the most part. We have not yet seen a slowdown in developing markets, which continue to grow in the high single-digit pace.

We do see some evidence of trade-down. For instance, in the laundry detergents, Tide grew volume in mid single digits in the fourth quarter, down from its high single digit growth previously while Gain continued to grow volume in high single digits. This highlights the benefits of our tiered portfolio.

We also continue to see examples of trade-up where innovation warrants it. A good example is Perfect 10, our premium priced retail hair coloring. Perfect 10's value share is above 3%, and almost 100% of that is incremental to the Nice 'N Easy brand.

Gillette Clinical Strength deodorant is another good example. Gillette Clinical Strength is priced two times higher than the base offering but continues to gain distribution and share.

Private-label in the US is up modestly. Excluding personal healthcare where Prilosec OTC came off patent exclusivity, private-label shares in our categories are up less than 0.5 share point in aggregate. Most importantly, P&G continues to grow or hold value share in the majority of our categories.

Like commodities, market dynamics are something we will continue to closely monitor, taking a balanced, consistent, measured approach with one eye on sales and the other on volume.

Switching to Folgers, on June 4, we announced the signing of a definitive agreement to merge the Folgers coffee business into the J.M. Smucker Company in an all-stock reverse Morris trust transaction. Since that time, we have filed a preliminary S-4 with the SEC and clarified the transaction structure as a split merge where P&G shareholders tender shares in exchange for new Smuckers shares. The deal structure maximizes the after-tax value of the coffee business for P&G shareholders, and minimizes earnings-per-share dilution versus other structures.

We expect to complete the transaction during the second quarter of fiscal 2009. The Folgers deal will bring with it a significant one-time gain. We will not know the exact amount of the gain until the deal is completed, but for now, our guidance assumes that the gain will be approximately $0.50 per share and, again, occurring in the December quarter.

As I mentioned earlier, P&G will incur additional restructuring costs during fiscal 2009 in order to offset about $0.04 of dilution caused by the Folgers transaction. The costs of these additional restructuring projects will be about $400 million. Adding this amount to our ongoing base restructuring budget of $400 million brings our fiscal year 2009 restructuring budget to approximately $800 million.

The Folgers gain will be outside of operating earnings and will only impact the December quarter. The incremental restructuring charges will be in operating earnings and will impact all four quarters. The September and December quarters will be the most heavily impacted, as we have chosen to accelerate several projects to get as much of the benefit as possible into this fiscal year.

The additional restructuring costs will be about $0.04 per share in Q1 and Q2 and about $0.02 per share in Q3 and Q4, adding to about $0.12 per share for the year. If actual results are materially different than these estimates, we will update these numbers. Otherwise, we will not provide further guidance or reconcile the quarterly split of restructuring charges during fiscal 2009.

Before moving on, I need to take a moment to reassure you that P&G's approach and philosophy towards restructuring charges has not changed. We will continue to manage our business with ongoing versus episodic restructuring and we will continue to report the results, including these costs. In situations where strategic portfolio decisions result in stranded overheads and earnings dilution, we will take action to offset those impacts. But in fiscal year 2010, we expect restructuring spending to return to fiscal 2008 levels as a percent of sales.

Now, onto guidance, for fiscal 2009, P&G projects organic sales growth of 4% to 6%, in line with our long-term target range. [Within] that, price mixed should contribute 2% to 3%. Foreign exchange is estimated to have a positive impact of 2% to 3%. Acquisitions and divestitures will reduce net sales by about 1% to 2%. Therefore, in total, we expect all-in sales growth of 5% to 7% for the year.

Organic volume is likely to grow 2% to 3%. This is below the 4% to 5% we have been delivering during the first half of the calendar year, which we think is appropriately conservative, given the amount of pricing that we have recently announced and also the fact, as I mentioned earlier, that volume growth in our categories is below sales growth by 1% to 2%.

We expect gross margin to be down only 75 to 125 basis points for the year despite the fact that the combined impact of commodities and pricing will reduce gross margin by about 180 basis points. We will accomplish this through cost-savings programs and volume leverage.

SG&A will be 75 to 125 basis points lower on the year with productivity savings more than offsetting the approximate 50 basis points of incremental Folgers restructuring charges.

The net result of our aggressive cost-savings and productivity efforts is that, despite roughly 70 basis points of net commodity and pricing impacts and the incremental 50 basis points from restructuring, operating margins on an all-in basis should be about flat for the year. The tax rate should be between 27% and 28%. Our updated fiscal 2009 EPS guidance starts with fiscal 2008 GAAP result of $3.64 per share. Backing out $0.14 per share of tax benefits, this brings us to an adjusted based EPS number of $3.50 a share for fiscal 2008. From that base, we are projecting EPS growth of about 10% or $3.80 to $3.87 per share. This includes the $0.04 Folgers dilution and compares to our prior guidance of $3.80 to $3.85.

We took the high end of our guidance range up by $0.02 a share to reflect better results in the fourth quarter. We have also widened our guidance range slightly, which we think is prudent, given the volatility and uncertainty that exists in the commodity and energy markets today.

To arrive at the GAAP guidance for 2009, you need to add the Folgers one-time gain of $0.50 a share and then subtract $0.12 a share in temporary increases and restructuring charges. This produces a fiscal 2009 GAAP EPS range of $4.18 to $4.25 a share. We have included a full reconciliation in the press release materials.

We expect to continue to generate strong cash flow and are confident that we will deliver against our goal of 90% or greater free cash flow productivity, excluding the impact of the Folgers gain, which is a non-cash item but will result in substantial additional share repurchase when the transaction is executed. While we expect to deliver the fiscal year numbers in line with long-term targets, there is likely to be greater quarter-to-quarter earnings volatility in fiscal 2009. We've been dealing with higher input costs with pricing, but pricing does not take place instantaneously. We like to couple pricing with innovation to deliver better consumer value. We also need to give our retail partners time to adequately plan for pricing. All of these dynamics are factored into our planning efforts.

The lag between when we announce pricing and when it's effective on our revenue, combined with a rapid escalation that took place in commodity markets during May and June, will create some gross margin compression during the September quarter. We will catch up as price increases we just announced take effect in September and October, and expect to see sequential gross margin improvement throughout the year.

So turning to the September quarter, organic sales are expected to grow 4% to 6%. Within this, price mix should contribute 2% to 3%. Foreign exchange is expected to have a positive impact of 4% to 5%. Acquisitions and divestitures will reduce sales by about 1%. So in total, we expect all-in sales growth of 7% to 10% for the quarter.

Organic volume growth will be 2% to 3%. We expect earnings per share to be in the range of $0.98 to $1 a share, including the $0.04 of additional restructuring costs. On a GAAP basis, this is up 7% to 9% versus a year ago and 9% to 11%, excluding the $0.02 per share tax benefit in the base period.

Gross margin will be down 250 to 300 basis points, primarily due to commodity and energy cost increases. Business and geographic mix will also decrease gross margins. We expect gross margins to improve sequentially during the balance of the year. We will offset about 50% to 60% of the gross margin reduction with focused productivity efforts, which should result in operating margins being down 100 to 150 basis points for the quarter. Excluding the $0.04 per share of incremental restructuring costs, operating margins should be down less than 50 basis points and operating income should increase in high single digits.

The Other income should be up versus a year ago, reflecting the timing of minor brand divestitures such as ThermaCare, which was announced in July.

We expect the tax rate for the quarter to be about 28%.

Now, I will turn it over to A.G. to wrap up the call.

A.G. LAFLEY, CHAIRMAN, CEO, PROCTER & GAMBLE: Thank you, Clayt. Fiscal 2008 was another very good year for P&G. Total sales grew 9% to $83.5 billion. We've more than doubled the size of our business over the past six years. Sales in developing markets exceeded $25 billion and now account for 30% of our total business. P&G is now the largest consumer products company in the developing world.

Organic sales grew 5%, in the middle of our long-term target range of 4% to 6%. For seven years running, we've delivered these topline objectives.

Two thirds of our $1 billion brands grew value share globally. Fusion became our 24th $1 billion brand, and did so faster than any other P&G brand in history, crossing the threshold in just under two years.

Excluding the help from significant adjustments to tax reserves, diluted earnings per share increased 15% to $3.50 per share. Our cash performance was excellent. We generated $12.8 billion of free cash flow and returned over 120% of net earnings to shareholders through dividends and share repurchase.

On top of all this, we beat the odds which say "large acquisitions fail" by successfully completing the integration of Gillette. We exceeded our cost synergy and dilution targets. Revenue synergies are on target with significant upside over the next three to five years. Gillette and Oral-B brands are platforms for innovation, and we've just begun the efforts to fully leverage these equities.

Looking forward, I believe P&G is well positioned for continued success. Our portfolio, our commitment to innovation, and our productivity efforts are the reasons for this. Our portfolio is stronger than at any time in our history. With the addition of Fusion, P&G now has 24 $1 billion brands, far more than any other company.

$1 billion brands are platforms for innovation. They support larger investments in consumer research, in R&D; they build strong equities with consumers. They become indispensable to retailers, and they earn a leadership share of category profits.

P&G's $1 billion brands give P&G the number one or number two position in 18 different product categories around the world. This breadth of category leadership position is unmatched in our industry.

This portfolio of brands and categories provides many unique advantages, strong growth potential, and financial stability and reliability. Let me share just a couple of examples of how the portfolio creates unique advantages for us.

The first example is cost category innovation. Bleach technology from laundry has been used in health and beauty care products such as crest White Strips and Clairol Perfect 10 hair colorant. Nonwoven top-sheet technology started in diapers, traveled to feminine care, then moved onto Swiffer and Olay Daily Facials.

Proprietary perfume technology has been used to enhance the performance of Bounce and Febreze, our fine fragrance brands, Camay and more recently Secret and Gillette Clinical Strength deodorants. Looking forward, we are very excited about the innovation possibilities we have in combining Gillette's expertise in mechanical engineering with our expertise in chemical engineering.

A second example of portfolio advantage is developing market penetration. The depth and breadth of P&G's portfolio allows us to penetrate markets quicker and deeper than many competitors because it allows us to attract and build a network of best-in-class, dedicated distributors in countries like China, India and Russia. These distributors have the deepest reach and the best capabilities in their respective markets.

Today, our distributor network in China reaches 2,300 cities and 40% of towns and villages. This is about 60% of the population and 800 million more people than our next-largest competitor. In India, our distributor network now covers 4.5 million stores, an increase of 2 million stores in just five years. In Russia, we are now reaching 80% of the population.

The third example I will offer is an advantage that's created by scale and by the unique combination of categories that comprise our portfolio. In combining household and health and beauty businesses, each benefits from the unique scale advantages of the other. Health and beauty benefits from the larger raw material purchasing pools created by high tonnage household businesses like laundry, diapers, and other paper products, so they are able to purchase packing material and basic commodities at lower prices than direct competitors.

Household care enjoys economies of scale created by health and beauty care's larger advertising and marketing budgets. The cost advantages created by scale provides the investment flexibility needed to build our brands with leadership levels of innovation and marketing support.

These examples are just three of the many ways in which we are advantaged by our diversified portfolio. Our portfolio, as currently structured, has significant potential for growth not just in health and beauty but also in household care.

Household care, excluding acquisitions, has grown sales at a five-year compounded annual growth rate of about 40% in China and India, 30% in Russia, and 20% in Brazil and Turkey. Household care also has significant growth upside in the developed world. In the United States, innovation, compaction and lower prioritization of the category by competition have driven meaningful growth in categories like laundry. Other categories like bath tissue are growing in excess of 10% on an all-outlet basis because of better consumer understanding and shopper segmentation, and of course leading innovation. Household care has increased sales in the US, excluding acquisitions, by almost 40% over the past five years, adding approximately $4 billion to our sales.

Our health and beauty business gives us access to a structurally attractive $370 billion global market that is growing, on average, 4% to 6%, has favorable demographics, and which is still fairly fragmented. P&G's share of this market is still only about 10%, which of course we expect to grow steadily over time.

We generate 30% of our sales in developing markets today, and that number is increasing every year. We have leadership shares in China, Russia, Poland, Turkey and Saudi Arabia.

In China, P&G is number one in 11 of 12 categories in which we compete. We are the largest consumer product goods manufacturer by a factor of four, and we have, as I said, the deepest distribution network.

In Russia, our value share is now about 40%, and sales are three times larger than the next-largest CPG manufacturer. In Poland, value shares are approaching 30%. In Turkey, the number is closer to 40, and in Saudi, we are approaching 50%, but there is still an awful lot of room for growth.

Despite the size of our developing market business, we are, frankly, still underdeveloped in these countries. We currently compete in only 9 categories in India, 11 in Brazil, 12 in China, and 18 in Russia. In Indonesia, the fourth most-populous market in the world, we compete in only six. This compares to North America where we currently compete in 24 categories.

Sales per person per year is another way to look at market development potential. Using the US is probably not a fair point of comparison, so let's use Mexico. In Mexico, P&G generates sales of approximately $20 per person, per year. In Brazil, that number is less than $10; in China, less than $5 and in India, still less than $1.

In addition to unique advantages and growth potential, our portfolio provides financial stability and reliability. This allows us to react quickly to competitive challenges in a given area while continuing to deliver the results that shareholders expect from us. Stability allows us to think longer-term, which is what building enduring brands is really all about. It allows us to reliably and consistently invest in innovation.

P&G's commitment to innovation has never been stronger. Innovation is what will differentiate the winners and the losers in our industry and in the current environment. Innovation drives consumer value and builds brand equity and trust over time.

Both brand value and brand equity scores for P&G brands are strong. Over 70% of our $1 billion brands have top tertile consumer value scores, and approximately 80% have top tertile equity scores.

P&G's commitment to cost control and productivity has also never been stronger. Over the last year, are selling, research and administrative costs as a percentage of sales dropped 100 basis points with advertising growing in line with sales. We are committed to accelerated progress in this area. Our productivity focus will provide us with the financial flexibility we need to deal with short-term challenges while maintaining our focus on the long-term drivers of value creation. All of these things -- our category and geographic portfolio, our unwavering commitment to innovation, and our focus on productivity -- give me the confidence that we will continue to deliver the results our shareholders expect from us, despite the challenging and more volatile environment in which we are now operating.

Now, Clayt, Jon and I would be happy to take your questions.

OPERATOR: Thank you. The question-and-answer session that will be conducted electronically. (Operator Instructions). Bill Pecoriello, Morgan Stanley.

BILL PECORIELLO, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Good morning, everybody. On the price mix guidance for '09, is that assuming that the price will be 4 to 5 and you are holding the mix at negative 2% we saw in the fourth quarter, so no additional trade-down expected?

Then in the volume component, I guess this is what your elasticity or models are showing by category, by market. There's no category or market that you would single out in terms of where we might see more of the volume impact. Is it pretty broad based, given the pricing?

CLAYT DALEY: I think the volume is pretty broad based, and I think your assessment on the relationship between pricing and mix is actually pretty close. So, I think that assessment is pretty accurate.

OPERATOR: Nik Modi, UBS.

NIK MODI, ANALYST, UBS: Just in terms of going back to the volume growth, Clayt, what are you embedding in terms of the emerging market growth for fiscal '09, in terms of volumes?

CLAYT DALEY: Well, we think that we still expect to deliver double-digit organic sales growth in emerging markets. I would say that the volume growth behind that will probably be upper singles. Therefore, I think it's quite clear based on what's happened to the markets. I mean, a lot of this is driven by the markets as it impacts volume growth, where volume growth is now below sales growth by a couple of percentage points in North America and in Western Europe. So, that's what will create the aggregate 2% to 3% volume growth for the Company.

OPERATOR: Wendy Nicholson, Citi.

WENDY NICHOLSON, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Yes, if I could just follow up on Nik's question there, I think he was asking volume growth in emerging markets. My question there is the 2% to 3% outlook is a little on the low end because I would have expected volume growth in markets like China and Russia and India to be healthy healthy double digits. What we've heard from some other companies is that reported sales growth in those emerging markets is lower than volume growth because of the heavy levels of promotion and that kind of thing.

So in a market like China specifically where it sounds like you've just got so much headroom from a categoric perspective and reaching more of the population, what kind of outlook for volume growth do you think you see in China over the next 12 months?

CLAYT DALEY: We are seeing the opposite. We are seeing sales growth exceed volume growth. There are significant price increases going on in emerging markets as well. We have been raising prices in Russia and Eastern Europe, some fairly sizable percentages in China and Latin America as well, and so we are seeing organic sales growth rates well above volume growth rates. That's why, as I said, we think the volume growth rate in emerging markets is likely to be in the upper singles. By the way, I think it's important also to note that we think that it's prudent, given the amount of pricing that is going into the marketplace, to not get ahead of ourselves in terms of what volume growth is likely to be in this environment.

A.G. LAFLEY: Yes, Wendy, this is A.G. Just a couple of quick facts -- the markets we estimate are growing -- take our two biggest developing markets, [India] and China. We think they are growing about 7% in aggregate across all of our categories. As Clayt just said, we actually have a couple of quarters or more now of concrete experience where we've been rolling through pricing across our categories, and we are delivering very consistent double-digit sales growth, but it's been on high single digit volume growth. As Clayt also said, we have pricing plans that's going to impact -- not impact until the end of this first quarter of the new year and into the second quarter of the new year, so we are trying to estimate the roll-through there.

The other thing that I think is important to understand is one of the biggest engines to growth in developing markets in the past year has been the big cities. In the big cities, we are selling, frankly, more of our premium line. So, the kind of product lines that we are selling in the Shanghais and Moscows and Delhis of the world right now are actually growing sales at a rate faster than volume.

Then the third point I think is incredibly important. We are just one month into a new year here. We are looking at the largest increases in commodity and energy prices at least any of us who have been with the company 30-plus years now have seen, including the '70s, okay? So we are going to be taking pricing that is unprecedented, and we just want to make sure that we are prudent. We want to make sure that we are cautious and we are careful. If we do better, that would be great!

OPERATOR: Chris Ferrara, Merrill Lynch.

CHRIS FERRARA, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: I just wanted to ask a little bit about the mix overall, back to that. So obviously it decelerated. Can you quantify how much of it is geographic mix versus what mix looks like in developed markets? I guess could you talk about that, what mix looks like the US and Western Europe?

CLAYT DALEY: About 1% in geographic of the total, which is pretty consistent with what we've been seeing for the last couple of quarters.

CHRIS FERRARA: So 1 point down from developing markets?

CLAYT DALEY: Yes, it's geographic mix.

A.G. LAFLEY: I mean, Chris, obviously as that becomes a bigger percentage of our business, it becomes a little bit bigger drag but it's still worth it. It's where you want to be. You want to be where babies are born, households form, incomes are rising and economies are growing faster. We just have a lot of white space.

JON MOELLER: As we've said many times before, of course from an all-in after-tax profit basis, this is not a negative mix story.

CHRIS FERRARA: Thanks.

OPERATOR: Bill Schmitz, Deutsche Bank.

BILL SCHMITZ, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Can we just talk a little bit longer term on how you come to juxtapose the sort of short-term pressures in the business and having to really belt-tighten on the SG&A side, and how that impacts both (inaudible) deliver the decade -- like (technical difficulty) you sort of pushed "deliver the decade" and then kind of what's left in the tank after that? I guess sort of a long way of saying are you guys trimming fat here in the SG&A side or is there some muscle in there as well, just given the unprecedented rise in input costs in the short term?

A.G. LAFLEY: Okay, I think there's still a long runway for the kind of steady and consistent growth that our targets represent.

Okay, let me hit the key drivers. The first is the portfolio. I hope we've made it clear that we're going to continue to evolve the portfolio over time. I think Clayt and I have tried to be very clear about that. I think, if you look at our actions over last eight to ten years, you've seen us very methodically move out of categories where we don't like -- where the growth prospects aren't as good, where they aren't quite as structurally attractive and where they don't lend themselves to our brand and innovation-driven business model. You will continue to see that. So the portfolio will be a growth driver.

The second piece, Bill, is obviously innovation. You know, we've worked very hard this last eight to ten years to build a robust innovation engine, and we think we've got one and we've said before we have visibility out at least five years, more on some of our businesses, and we're looking at an innovation pipeline that's robust enough to deliver the growth rates that we are -- that we set for ourselves. Most of our organic sales growth, every year, is driven by new product innovation.

We could talk about a lot of things there, but the way we innovate, the whole connect-and-develop program -- you know over half of our new products now have at least one outside partner -- the way we cross pollinate technologies and learn from each other and re-apply, I mean there's just a lot there.

The third one in the productivity thing -- you know, I hate to say it but this is my 32nd year and there's still fat to trim, okay? It's not because we don't work at it; it's not because we don't have 138,000 P&G-ers working their hardest every day around the world. It's simply because there are always ways to do things more simply, and that's what we're focused on. We are focused on simplicity and productivity.

I will just tick off a few really quick ones -- GBS/IDS. You know, we moved to this shared services structure back in the early part of this decade. It's been a big driver of productivity and we've still got more productivity to grow. We've got five more years of productivity improvement currently identified.

Look at our CapEx. Ten years ago, we were running 7.8% of sales. We now arguably have a portfolio that is should be as capitol-intensive, especially when we added Blades & Razors and batteries, and we just turned in 3.6%. This is fantastic work by our engineering and product supply and R&D organizations.

Look at our R&D productivity, you know, what we run as a percent of sales. We peaked at, I don't know, 4.8% of sales, something like that, a decade ago. We are running 3.2%, 3.3% of sales. There's a little bit more productivity there.

We still have a lot of productivity opportunity where our organization structures connect. There is duplication, and there are opportunities to be more efficient where the GBU touches the MDO, etc. We still have -- the program we laid out at [Cagney] we are going to accelerate and we're going to broaden, and there's at least five-year timeline for that one.

OPERATOR: John Faucher, JP Morgan.

CECILIA TRENNIS, ANALYST, JP MORGAN: It's actually [Cecilia Trennis] on John's behalf, and we just have one question. Most of the consumer companies actually are seeing organic revenue growth accelerate as they take more pricing. What do you need to do differently in order to get your topline accelerated?

CLAYT DALEY: Well, I think that what we are saying is that the pricing we are taking is on top of the volume growth. I think the scenario where our sales growth would be a little bit higher is if we could get toward the upper end of our volume growth range and of course if the price increases are fully reflected and we don't end up in a situation where we have to spend money back into the marketplace. That's the scenario where organic sales growth could be on the upper end of our ranges.

OPERATOR: Lauren Lieberman, Lehman Brothers.

LAUREN LIEBERMAN, ANALYST, LEHMAN BROTHERS: I still had a follow-up on the mix question because I don't really feel like it got totally answered, and then one on advertising.

On mix, it was -- the geographic mix was 1 point, but what were mix trends in developed markets? Is that the other negative point of mix or it --?

CLAYT DALEY: Yes, yes, that's what we said, that we have seen some mix, some trade down to cheap, to lower-priced brands that are still P&G brands that have created some negative mix.

LAUREN LIEBERMAN: Great.

A.G. LAFLEY: Lauren, the other thing is there are really three things going on here, okay. One is developing markets, which Clayt commented on. The second is some trade-down, and the third one is our mix of categories, right? When we do more baby and we do more family care, that impacts our mix.

Then, as John pointed out, when you look at it all from a profit standpoint, okay, on an earnings basis, we do fine because there are no -- there are really no negative mix effects when you get to the after-tax profit line.

So it's a little bit complex, but that's the way it's working. As we continue to grow in developing markets, we are going to see this topline net sales mix impact. Frankly, when you are in an economic period like this in Western Europe and the US, the staples businesses hold up better, right? They are more stable. People keep buying the staples every week and using them every day, so that means we see a little bit of negative topline mix coming from the household businesses.

LAUREN LIEBERMAN: Okay, great. Then the advertising piece, just you guys commented on advertising for the full year. I wanted to know what advertising grew in the quarter and then as you think about next year, because it's a change in CMO, if advertising is becoming a target for more productivity.

CLAYT DALEY: No. The answer is -- well, first of all, we don't disclose quarterly advertising spending as a percent of sales, so suffice it to say we spent 10.4% last year, which was the same as the year before. Our plans for the coming year would be to sustain it at about that level. Cutting advertising is not part of our plans to cut costs.

A.G. LAFLEY: Yes, I mean our thrust is almost every year, we are right about at 10%, usually up a few ticks. What's changing is the mix, which I think you understand -- obviously less TV -- although in developing markets, TV is still powerful.

The third thing that's going on is we keep driving the market mix modeling and the marketing ROI so when we spend that 10%-plus, we get more bang for it; we get 11% or 12% worth of bang for it.

In terms of the change from Jim to Mark, I guess I would say two things. One, we are going to run the same brand-building and the marketing focused program with both guys that have been working together on reinventing brand building over the last year, and some of the productivity things that Jim started in marketing Mark will continue.

CLAYT DALEY: But the productivity things relate to people, not to advertising spending. The advertising spending is fundamentally the decision of the business units.

Thanks.

OPERATOR: Ali Dibadj, Sanford Bernstein.

ALI DIBADJ, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: So, maybe I'm the only one confused about this, but I love your clarification, particularly on the "restructuring" on Folgers. A couple of questions there -- one is, so are you saying that $400 million that you're spending on the restructuring of Folgers would not have been spent otherwise without Folgers? The reason I ask that -- that's the question. The reason I ask that is it just seems a little disproportional to me that you're restructuring internally at $400 million for $80 some-odd billion of the business, sales of the business, and then for an extra (technical difficulty) --

CLAYT DALEY: Hello? Sorry, we lost you.

OPERATOR: One moment, please.

ALI DIBADJ: Can you hear me now?

CLAYT DALEY: Yes.

ALI DIBADJ: I feel like that commercial! So did you get the question at all?

CLAYT DALEY: Let me see if I can be responsive to it. You know, as we've said, we think the ongoing restructuring program will grow over time with the business, okay? So, if Folgers hadn't happened, there's a chance that the restructuring program in fiscal '08/'09 would have been a little bit over $400 million, it might have been $400 million to $500 million versus $300 million to $400 million, $400 million to $450 million. I don't know, but it might have grown a little bit, but it certainly would not have gone up to $800 million.

The increase to $800 million is directly tied to the Folgers transaction and our desire to rapidly deal with the stranded overhead costs and rapidly deal with the earnings dilution.

If you look at the $0.04 earnings dilution, which on an after-tax basis is about call it $135 million, on a pretax basis that would be close to $200 million. I don't think the incremental restructuring, relative to the amount of dilution we are trying to mitigate, is off by a lot.

OPERATOR: Jason Gere, Wachovia.

JASON GERE, ANALYST, WACHOVIA SECURITIES: I was wondering if you can just give a little more clarity about the sales maybe by channel in the developed markets, and then talking about the role of incremental in-store communication to drive the innovation that you are bringing to the marketplace.

A.G. LAFLEY: I think, Jason, are you most interested in the US?

CLAYT DALEY: Well, he said in emerging markets, didn't he?

A.G. LAFLEY: I think developed, right, Jason? You asked a question about our channel progress in developed markets (multiple speakers)?

JASON GERE: Correct.

A.G. LAFLEY: Okay. Well, I mean, obviously, if you look at the monthly retailer reports and if you look at consumer shopping behavior over the last several weeks and months, what's going on is she is reducing trips, right? She is consolidating her shopping. That has advantaged the club channel, okay, where we have -- we are in a higher than fair share position. For some shoppers, it has been good for discounters and I think obviously Wal-Mart has done reasonably well in this environment, and that's not surprising; they are well-positioned.

Then the other channel that I think has done pretty okay is the dollar channel in the US. If you turn to Western Europe, it's still a story of discounters, okay? The growth channel is the discounters, although what's changed versus a few years ago is the soft discounters are now growing faster than the hard discounters, which is good for branded manufacturers like P&G. So the [Liedels] of the world are actually growing faster than Aldi and we are well represented in [Liedel]. We've spent a lot of time and effort building out our distribution with [Liedel] over the last few years. So that's been the trend.

But I think you have to be careful not to look just at channels. I mean, there are winners within each channel and in the grocery channel. Some of the grocery players are actually doing quite well.

The second question was about -- remind me of your second question?

OPERATOR: Just one moment.

JASON GERE: (technical difficulty) thinking about more from the alternative channels from that perspective.

A.G. LAFLEY: I'm sorry, alternative retail channels or (multiple speakers)?

JASON GERE: Yes, looking at club, looking at mass dollar, from that perspective, more obviously to mass than to club, if there's any incremental in-store communication needed (multiple speakers) to drive the innovation.

A.G. LAFLEY: Okay. I guess I would say, I guess I would say three things. One is we need to be strong in innovating where shoppers are shopping. So, we follow the shopper, right. The consumer is the boss; we follow the consumer with demand creation and with our innovation, and we follow the shopper.

The second thing is, clearly, there's been a shift -- and you've seen it from us and I'm sure you've seen it from other players in our industry -- to more in-store communication, more in-store marketing.

Then thirdly, I would say we are all experimenting, we are all experimenting continuously with what we need to do to generate more trial because I think I've said this on prior calls. We still have a huge opportunity. We have a $1 billion to $2 billion net sales opportunity. We had a question earlier. How could we accelerate our growth? We could close our trial opportunity just on our current brands and with our current innovation that is in the market. So we are experimenting continuously with in-store and out-of-store techniques to build trial faster.

CLAYT DALEY: Thanks.

OPERATOR: Joe Altobello, Oppenheimer.

JOE ALTOBELLO, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER & CO.: In terms of the developing market growth, I'm just curious. Why haven't we seen these emerging markets start to slow, given that a disproportionate amount of their incomes are typically spent on food and fuel, and that's where you're seeing a lot of the cost inflation? Is the discretionary income growth in these countries overwhelming that inflation impact?

Looking ahead to '09, I know China is one country but typically what you see is, post-Olympics, the GDP growth of the host country tends to slow considerably. Are you taking that into consideration in terms of your '09 guidance?

CLAYT DALEY: Well, I think the consumers who literally have had to shift their income to deal with higher food prices, the consumers who are that far down the economic spectrum are not heavy consumers of our products. So I think, even in emerging markets, if consumers are making choices on what to buy because of higher food prices, at least so far, they are not choosing to reduce consumption in the staples category. Those markets are continuing to grow at the rates they've been growing.

I think we've said before, we don't know how to predict this one. Will these market growth rates continue forever? No. I mean, there will be a point at some point where we will start to see some slow-down strictly because of the law of large numbers, as these markets just get significantly larger bases behind them. But at least for the moment, we have not seen slowdown and it would be difficult for us to predict it.

A.G. LAFLEY: Joe, I think what's been going on is that there are, broadly speaking, three income levels that we are doing business with across developing markets. I spoke about the highest income group; they tend to be in the biggest cities, generally two wage earners and incomes rising fairly fast. I think what's been going on is sort of that developing market top-tier growth has been more than offsetting the developing market lowest-tier pressure that's come from food inflation. We just have to watch that.

The other thing I think is important to understand is no two developing countries are alike, so what we do in China is different in important ways versus what we're doing in Brazil or Russia, Ukraine for example.

The third thing, I think Clayt makes the right point here. We had a lot of questions about the volume guidance for next year, but we are just trying to be cautious all the way around because yes, there is uncertainty. You know, the Chinese GDP is not a consumer-driven GDP, right. So our consumer markets I think are growing about 7%. The ones we are in, in China, their GDP has been growing at a rate faster than that. But we are cautious, and we are watchful and we try to stay -- we are in the market every day and we just try to stay very close to consumers. We try to stay very close to our distributors and retailers, and we try to be agile and flexible and adaptable.

CLAYT DALEY: Thanks.

OPERATOR: Connie Maneaty, BMO Capital.

CONNIE MANEATY, ANALYST, BMO CAPITAL: I have a longer-term question on restructuring. I understand that the plan is to do restructuring on an ongoing rather than episodic basis, and the consolidation of distribution centers is part of that ongoing process. But my question is are there circumstances under which an episodic charge might be more appropriate to move the organization to where it needs to be for a five to ten-year period, especially given the higher platform for commodity costs and the opportunity still to simplify?

CLAYT DALEY: I think that's a fair point. If we had projects that were not funded, in other words if we had opportunities that the businesses had come to us and we were saying no, we are not funding projects because we are trying to keep an arbitrary restructuring budget, then I think it's an absolutely fair point as to why would you say no to good projects because of an arbitrary funding limit? That has not been the case. We have been funding all of the restructuring projects that have been coming to us from the various business units. Therefore, there hasn't been, if you will, a capital constraint or a restructuring budget constraint imposed on the organization where we would be forgoing an opportunity.

A.G. LAFLEY: Yes, if we had to recapitalize to move to a new technology platform -- you may recall we spent over $1 billion to re-platform baby care about ten years ago, eight to ten years ago. We did a major re-platforming of Femcare. If we had to do something like that, we would step up to it, but I think, if you don't have that, this is a much better way to run the railroad.

CLAYT DALEY: Right.

A.G. LAFLEY: -- a lot more discipline, a lot more operating discipline with the way we've been running this the last eight years.

CLAYT DALEY: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Filippe Goossens, Credit Suisse.

FILIPPE GOOSSENS, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Good morning, A.G. and Clayt. A.G., I would like to go back to my question from the last earnings call related to Pantene in general and Brazil in particular. Last year, our sources said -- what our own research indicated that you are going to make a big push in hair care, particularly with Pantene in that country, which has already resulted in the hiring of Gisele B1/4ndchen as your spokesperson.

Now, if you look at what's happening year-to-date, our sources tell us that the push in Brazil with Pantene has not been as strong as they had expected. So the question there is has anything changed with regard to your game plan?

Then as it relates to the US, obviously disappointing reformulation of Pantene. Now, in order to go back to your 3% to 5% organic volume growth for the beauty GBU, it is critical, in our opinion at least, that Pantene gets turned around as well. What are your current plans there, A.G.? Many thanks.

A.G. LAFLEY: Thank you, Filippe. First of all, I hope you understand that I really can't comment on our future plans because we are just not going to make an announcement to the market and our competitors (multiple speakers) probably paying attention to what we are doing.

But listen, on the main point that you make, I couldn't agree with you more. I hope I've been very clear and very straightforward about this. As well as our hair care business has done and a lot of our brands, as Jon reported earlier, are doing quite well, we did stumble in some markets. You mentioned one of them, the US, on the last round of Pantene innovation. We have new innovation going into the US market right now. You will see innovation from us on Pantene across the US and in other markets around the world.

Regarding Brazil, we are in a testing period. I believe our share is up; it's still relatively modest, mid-to high single digits, but we are learning. It's a big hair care market, okay? So eventually, we are going to have to have a position there, and we are in the learning phase. I think I will leave it at that.

CLAYT DALEY: Thanks.

OPERATOR: Bill Chappell, SunTrust Robinson Humphrey.

BILL CHAPPELL, ANALYST, SUNTRUST ROBINSON HUMPHREY: Just a follow-up on the Folgers restructuring -- I guess should we read into the fact that no additional charges in 2010 expected mean kind of we are through with the rationalization of the portfolio, or at least of the major brands? Also, with the share count, can you give -- I think you said there's a big share repurchase related to this deal. Could you say what you expect the average share To be at the year-end fiscal '09?

CLAYT DALEY: The answer to your first question is this does not signal that there's an end to the evolution of the portfolio; we are not saying that we are going to do more than Folgers, but we are not sitting here saying that we are going to do nothing further.

All we can plan at this point is what we know. We obviously know the impact of Folgers, and we know that we are planning to step up restructuring this year to offset it, and then next year right now we are planning to take that restructuring back down to about the prior level as a percent of sales. So I would expect, in fiscal 2010, the restructuring program could be above $400 million but not a huge amount above.

Relative to the share count, you know, what's going to happen when the Folgers transaction occurs is we are going to exchange P&G shares for newly issued shares of Smuckers. So what basically will happen is, at that time the deal is closed, there will be a substantial reduction in P&G share count that occurs with that transaction, and that's what we were talking about earlier.

(inaudible)

CLAYT DALEY: Yes, of course that's in addition to the ongoing, so if you think about share repurchase in fiscal 2009, we are going to do the $8 billion to $10 billion we had previously committed to, and then the share repurchase associated with the coffee/Smuckers deal will be on top of that. But of course, that reduction in share count is factored into the dilution number for Folgers as well.

OPERATOR: Alice Longley, Buckingham Research.

ALICE LONGLEY, ANALYST, BUCKINGHAM RESEARCH: Just doing the math on the volume guidance, it sounds, for fiscal '09, that volume may be up something like 8% in developing markets, and may be down 1% in Western Europe and up 1% in the US. Does that sound reasonable?

CLAYT DALEY: We can't call it that close.

ALICE LONGLEY: Basically very little volume growth in the US and Western Europe?

CLAYT DALEY: Well, I think that it's modest; I would say it will be modest. I don't think it's going to go negative.

OPERATOR: Unfortunately, that's all the time we have for questions today. Gentlemen, I will go ahead and turn the conference back to you for any additional or closing remarks.

CLAYT DALEY: Thanks for joining us again today. As always, Jon Moeller, Mark (inaudible) John Chevalier and I will be around for the rest of the day. I would be happy to take any questions and follow-up that you have, and thanks again for joining us.

OPERATOR: With that, we will conclude today's conference. Thank you, everyone, for your participation.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
prgml : The Procter & Gamble Company
   IN
i258 : Cosmetics/Toiletries | icnp : Consumer Products | ipcare : Personal Care Products/Appliances
   NS
c11 : Plans/Strategy | c15 : Performance | ntra : Transcript | c151 : Earnings | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
Voxant, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020080819e485000xu
  


 HD
 Q3  2008  Procter  & Gamble Company Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
10,930 words
   PD
30 April 2008
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.     

   LP
OPERATOR: Good day, everyone, and welcome to Procter and Gamble's third quarter earnings conference call. Today's discussion will include a number of forward-looking statements. If you refer to P&G's most recent 10-K and 8-K reports, you will see a discussion of factors that could cause the company's actual results to differ materially from these projections.

As required by Regulation G, P&G needs to make you aware that during the call, the company will make a number of references to non-GAAP and other financial measures. Management believes these measures provide investors valuable information on the underlying growth trends of the business. Organic refers to reported results, excluding the impacts of acquisitions and divestitures and foreign exchange where applicable. Free cash flow represents operating cash flow, less capital expenditures. P&G has posted on its website, www.PG.com, a full reconciliation of non-GAAP and other financial measures.

   TD
Now I would like to turn the call over to P&G's Chief Financial Officer, Clayton Daley. Please go ahead.

CLAYTON DALEY, CFO, PROCTER & GAMBLE COMPANY: Thank you. Good morning, everyone. A.G. Lafley, our CEO, and Jon Moeller, our Treasurer, join me this morning. I'll begin with a summary of our third quarter results, Jon will cover business highlights by operating segment, I'll then discuss our expectations for the June quarter and the current fiscal year, and finally, I will provide a brief outlook on fiscal 2009. Following the call, as always, Jon Moeller, Mark Ursuk, John Chevalier and I will be available to provide additional perspective as needed.

Now on to the results. P&G maintains strong momentum in the third quarter, delivering balanced top and bottom line growth in an environment of significant commodity and energy cost pressure. The breadth and depth of our portfolio, strong innovation, and a focus on productivity drove our results. Earnings per share from the March quarter increased 11% to $0.82. This was $0.01 ahead of both the consensus estimate and the top end of our guidance range. Earnings per share growth was driven by solid sales growth and strong operating margin expansion. Operating margins expanded behind a continuing focus on productivity improvements and by delivering Gillette synergy benefits.

Total sales increased 9% to $20.5 billion, driven by volume growth and favorable foreign exchange. Organic sales and volume were both up 5%. This was the 23rd consecutive quarter we have met or exceeded our top line growth targets. Developing markets set the pace with strong double-digit organic sales and volume growth. Pricing added 1 point to sales growth, as many of our brands increased pricing to offset higher commodity and energy costs. Both developed and developing markets grew sales ahead of volume. However, because developing markets are growing faster than developed markets, there was a negative 1-point mix effect on the total company. We expect these dynamics to continue going forward.

The company's business portfolio performed very well, with five of our six reportable segments delivering mid single-digit or better organic volume growth. Global organic volume grew in 18 of P&G's top 22 product categories, representing over 90% of company sales. One of our strengths as a company is the fact that our results do not depend on any one category or market, but rather on the diversity and breadth of our total portfolio. The diversity of our product categories and geographies continue to enable consistent, reliable growth for the company. For example, beauty care organic sales growth for the quarter was only 3%. This was below our going-in expectations. The shortfall was driven mainly by slower market growth in prestige channels and by softness in North American Pantene. But the softness in beauty care was offset by stronger growth in other parts of the portfolio. We are confident that our portfolio will continue to deliver reliable organic sales growth of 4 to 6%.

In terms of our markets, U.S. all outlet dollar market growth has slowed,, but is still growing about 2 to 4% in most of our categories. Very recently, we have seen a slowdown in the rate of growth across several beauty care categories. Non-track channels continue to grow significantly faster than track channels and market growth is stronger on a dollar basis than on a unit basis. Private label shares in the U.S. have begun to grow in a few of our product categories.

However, in nearly every instance, P&G is also growing share in those same categories. In Western Europe, markets have softened a bit, but are still growing 1 to 2%, and P&G continues to grow market share overall. In developing regions, market growth remains in the mid to high single digits. Net through the third quarter, markets continue to grow and P&G brands continue to build share, despite a challenging economic environment in the U.S. and the price increases we have taken to recover commodity costs.

Next, earnings and margin performance. Operating income increased a strong 13% to $4.1 billion, behind sales growth and margin expansion, despite significant commodity and energy cost increases. Operating margin increased 60 basis points due to overhead productivity improvements and Gillette synergies. Gross margin was down 30 basis points to 51.3%. Commodity and energy costs reduced gross margin by over 220 basis points. This was largely offset by pricing, volume leverage, and cost savings projects.

Selling, general and administrative expenses were down 80 basis points, as our focus on productivity significantly lowered overhead costs as a percent of sales. Marketing spending increased 9%, in line with sales growth. We continue to support our brands with consistently high levels of advertising and marketing spending. Interest expense was up, as we continue to expand debt capacity within our AA credit rating to finance our share buyback program. Other nonoperating income was down significantly versus year ago, due primarily to divestiture gains in the base period and lower interest income. This was consistent with previous guidance. The tax rate for the quarter was 27.9%, also consistent with previous guidance.

Now let's turn to cash performance. We continue to convert earnings to cash at a strong rate. Operating cash flow in the quarter was $4.3 billion, driven largely by strong earnings, an unusually large deferred tax benefit and a decrease in accounts receivable. Operating cash flow was down slightly versus prior year due to inventory increases to support the North American liquid laundry compaction and other major initiative launches. Capital spending was $668 million in the quarter, or 3.3% of sales, well below the company's 4% annual target. Free cash flow for the quarter was $3.7 billion. This was 136% of net earnings. Fiscal year to date operating cash flow was $11.7 billion, up $1.9 billion from the same period year-ago, and fiscal year to date free cash flow was $9.9 billion, an increase of $2 billion versus year-ago. This brings free cash flow productivity to 109% fiscal year to date, 12 points ahead of last year. We remain well on pace to exceed our 90% free cash flow productivity target for the fiscal year.

We repurchased $2.6 billion of P&G stock during the March quarter. Fiscal year to date, we have repurchased $8 billion, a level that is consistent with our three-year, $24 to $30 billion share repurchase program. Combined with $3.3 billion in dividends, P&G has distributed $11.4 billion to shareholders fiscal year to date or 126% of earnings. On April 8, we announced the 14% increase in our quarterly dividend from $0.35 to $0.40 per share. This represents the 52nd consecutive fiscal year in which P&G has increased dividends. And over the past 52 years, P&G's dividend has increased at a compound annual rate of nearly 10%.

To summarize, P&G continues to drive balanced top and bottom line growth at or above target levels. We are converting a significant amount of earnings to cash and we are returning this cash to shareholders through dividends and share repurchase. Now I'll turn it over to Jon for a discussion of the business unit results by segment.

JON MOELLER, TREASURER, PROCTER & GAMBLE COMPANY: Thanks, Clayton. Starting with the beauty segment, all in sales grew 9%, with organic sales up 3%. Global hair care volume grew mid single digits, behind high teens growth of Head and Shoulders and double-digit growth of Rejoice. P&G's global hair care value share was in line with prior year at nearly 26%. P&G all outlet value share in the U.S. hair care market was down slightly, as declines on Pantene were largely offset by Head & Shoulders and Herbal Essences. P&G hair care share in Japan was very strong this quarter behind a launch of Head & Shoulders and continued growth of Pantene.

Global hair color sales were up high teens, driven by the launch of Nice & Easy Perfect 10. Perfect 10 is a revolutionary technology that addresses key unmet needs of the home coloring consumer. Our in market execution of Perfect 10 has been outstanding and we are on track to beat our launch target objectives. Nice & Easy all outlet share of U.S. hair colorants grew more than 3 points to 19%. Professional hair care shipments were in line with prior year, as strong growth in Central and Eastern Europe was offset by modest declines in developed markets.

Prestige Fragrances had a strong quarter versus prior year with sales up mid teens. Organic sales grew 9%, well above industry average, driven by the Dolce and Gabbana, Hugo Boss and Gucci brands. Growth was somewhat lower than expected in the U.S. and Western Europe, due to slower department store sales.

In skin care, global organic sales grew low single digits, behind solid growth of Olay facial moisturizers in the U.S. All outlet share of Olay facial moisturizers in the U.S. increased nearly 2 points to 43%. Skin care shipments in developing markets were in line with a very difficult year-ago comparison that included the Olay brand expansion in Russia, Poland and Turkey and the launch of Olay Definity in China.

Cosmetic sales grew mid-single digits, driven by the launch of Cover Girl Lash Blast mascara. Cover Girl value share in the U.S. grew to nearly 20% for the quarter. As Clayt said previously, organic sales growth for beauty were below our going-in expectations. This was due mainly to a soft period for the Pantene brand in North America, slower than anticipated department store channel sales for Prestige and a general slowdown in retail market growth of about a point.

In the grooming segment, sales were up 13% for the quarter, with organic volume and sales growing 6%. Blades and razors global shipments grew high single digits, driven by double-digit growth in developing markets. Shave prep shipments also grew high single digits. P&G is now the shave prep market leader in the U.S., with all outlet value share up more than 3 points to over 35%. Braun shipments were down mid single digits due largely to soft household appliance results, including the previously announced exit of this business in the U.S. Overall, global consumption of Gillette blades and razors increased 6% for the quarter, driven by the continued growth of Fusion and strong developing market results. Gillette's global value share of blades and razors increased for the period to nearly 72%.

Fusion continues to be a strong engine of growth in male shaving. Fusion's share of global male systems is up more than 8 points versus prior year to 24%. And Gillette's global share of male systems is up half a point to nearly 84%. Fusion will deliver more than $1 billion in sales this year, making it P&G's 24th $1 billion brand, the fastest ever to reach this milestone, including Mach3. The success of Fusion is a great example of the combined strength of P&G and Gillette. In February, Gillette launched Venus Embrace, the first five-bladed female razor. Embrace is off to a good start, driving Venus' share of female systems up more than 4 points to nearly 58% in the U.S. Gillette also launched Mach3 disposables in the U.S. in the March quarter, after only a few weeks in market Mach3 holds nearly a 10% share of the U.S. male disposable razor market.

Health care sales increased 11%, including 6 points of favorable foreign exchange. Feminine care and oral care led the growth, with feminine care volume up high single digits and oral care volume up mid single digits. In feminine care, Always volume was up high single digits and Naturella grew more than 30%. Always shipments were driven by strong growth of pantyliners in the U.S. Always all outlet share of the U.S. liner category is up more than 2 points to 31%. Feminine pad share increased nearly a point to 59%. Naturella brand growth was driven by continued expansion in Latin America, where volume grew more than 20%, and in central and eastern Europe, where volume increased more than 40%.

Oral care delivered mid single digit volume growth in both developed and developing markets. In North America, volume was up high single digits on strong growth of both Crest and Oral-B brands. Crest dentrifice maintained it's all outlet value share leadership in the U.S., despite intense competitive promotional activity. P&G's leading all outlet value share of toothpaste in the U.S. remained at over 38% and Oral-B toothbrush value share grew nearly 2 points to 43%.

In personal healthcare, Vicks shipments increased high single digits globally and more than 20% in the U.S. due to a late cold and flu season. Prilosec OTC delivered solid volume growth, despite [Parago]'s late quarter generic entry into the market. Prilosec U.S. all outlet value share grew nearly 2 points to 43%. While we are pleased with these results for the March quarter, we do expect future sales and share results to reflect the impact of generic competition.

Pharmaceutical volume grew low single digits. Global Actonel volume increased mid single digits, but was partially offset by lower shipments of other minor brands. Sales for the snacks, coffee and pet segment increased 11% for the quarter and organic sales grew 8%. Snacks delivered double-digit volume and sales growth behind the Pringles Rice Infusion initiative in Western Europe and the Extreme Flavors initiative in the U.S. Coffee sales also increased double digits due to the combination of modest volume growth and pricing to offset increases in green coffee costs. P&G coffee all outlet share increased more than a point to 37%, driven by the continued success of the Dunkin' Donuts coffee expansion into retail stores. Year 1 retail sales estimates for Dunkin' Donuts coffee are now in the range of 150 to $200 million. Pet care sales were up versus prior year, as pricing to recover commodity costs more than offset a modest shipment decline. Importantly, we have now annualized the wet pet food recall impacts and expect to grow the top and bottom line beginning in the April-June quarter.

The fabric care and home care segment delivered 10% total sales growth and 5% organic sales growth. Fabric care global shipment volume increased high single digits, with double-digit growth in developing markets and mid single-digit growth in developed regions. In developing markets, the Ariel and Ace brands each grew volume double digits for the quarter. In developed markets, growth was led by the Gain brand. Gain volume increased more than 20%, driven by the Soothing Sensations launch, which shipped in conjunction with the compact liquid detergent rollout in North America. Gain laundry all outlet value share in the U.S. is up a point to 15%. Tide grew volume mid single digits in North America, driven by the improved cleaning initiative launched along with the concentrated formula. Overall, the conversion to compacted liquid detergent in North America remains on track, with the final conversion wave shipping earlier this month. Importantly, P&G has continued to build share behind this initiative.

Home care shipments increased mid single digits. Febreze volume grew double digits behind a launch of Febreze candles and continued growth of Air Effects. Febreze share of the instant action air care market was up 3 points for the quarter to 20%. Cascade volume was up high single digits due to heavy orders prior to a price increase which was effective in early March. Also Fairy hand dish washing and auto dish washing products grew volume double digits.

Batteries volume grew mid single digits, as a double digit growth in developing markets more than offset a decline in North American shipments due to soft market trends. Duracell all outlet value share in the U.S. was up nearly a point to 44%.

Baby care and family care all-in sales grew 8%. Organic sales also grew 8% and organic shipment volumes were up a very strong 7%. Pampers diapers grew volumes double digit globally, led by high teens growth in developing markets. Russia, Poland and China continue to be growth leaders for Pampers. In developed markets, Pampers baby stages Swaddlers and BabyDry also delivered solid growth. Pampers all outlet value share of the U.S. diaper market is up nearly a point to more than 29%. In Western Europe, Pampers market leading diaper share is in line with prior year at a strong 54%.

Family care organic volume grew high single digits, behind double-digit growth on Charmin and mid single digit growth on Bounty in North America. Charmin's strong results are due to the success of Charmin Ultra Strong. Charmin's all outlet value share in the U.S. is up more than a point to 28%. Bounty's share is also up a point to 46%, a 43-year record high. That concludes the business segment review and I'll hand the call back to Clayt.

CLAYTON DALEY: Thanks, Jon. Before getting into our guidance, I want to provide some perspective on the current cost environment and how we are managing it. We are facing significant cost challenges brought on by rapid increases in both commodities and energy. Almost all of our key material inputs are up double digits and energy costs have increased even more dramatically, with oil approaching $120 a barrel and natural gas in excess of $10 per million BTUs. As a result, we expect to incur approximately $1.4 billion in higher material and energy costs this year. We have managed these costs while still delivering on financial commitments through a combination of pricing, cost savings projects, including product reformulation, and a focus on driving productivity through a disciplined approach to overhead control.

We have also continued to drive innovation, coupling innovation with pricing has allowed us in many instances to increase prices while also increasing consumer value. Material and energy forecasts for next year are even more challenging. We are in the midst of our fiscal 2009 planning process, and we are building our plans on the assumption that material and energy costs will increase by over $2 billion versus the current year.

We expect to manage through this challenging environment by continuing to do what we do best. First, we will innovate. Innovation is critical to maintaining superior consumer value. Better products are even more important during challenging times, when consumers are even more focused on value.

We will also drive cost savings. One of the ways we will drive cost savings is through product reformulation. We will use our deep technical mastery to enable us to utilize alternative inputs, while maintaining or improving the performance of our products.

We will accelerate our productivity efforts by reducing organizational redundancy, streamlining decision making, and institutionalizing overhead cost control behind a Hog Nog Zog target management for overhead costs.

Finally, we will drive favorable mix by trading consumers up to value-added products and we will continue to take broad pricing actions as necessary. As a result, we expect P&G and the overall market to grow sales ahead of unit volume, and this is a trend we are already seeing. I am confident that with these efforts, we will successfully manage through this challenging period and continue to meet the commitments we have made to our shareholders.

Now, on to guidance. For the June quarter, organic sales are expected to grow 4 to 6%. This includes 1 point of positive pricing and mix. In addition, foreign exchange should add 5 to 6% to sales growth. Acquisitions and divestitures are expected to have a negative 1 to 2% impact on sales, so in total, we expect all-in sales growth of 8 to 10%. Operating margins are expected to improve modestly. SG&A productivity improvements should more than offset lower gross margins, as we face another quarter of significant commodity and energy cost increases.

P&G is continuing to increase prices to offset the impact of higher input costs. Since our last earnings call, we have announced that we will be taking several additional price increases in the United States, including 4.5% on Always and Tampax, 7% on Crest Pro Health Rinse, 7% on hand dish washing products, 8% on Swiffer refills, and 11% on Oral-B power brushes and refill heads. These price increases will become effective between May and August and we have announced additional pricing in many other countries around the world. Competitors, including private label manufacturers and retailers have generally been increasing prices as well. They are facing the same commodity and energy cost pressures we have been experiencing. Therefore, we believe we will be able to implement these modest price increases without negatively effecting P&G's market share position. Most of the pricing benefit will be seen during fiscal 2009, when there will be a positive impact on sales growth.

Our tax rate in the quarter is expected to be about 28%. On the bottom line, we expect earnings per share for the fourth quarter to be in the range of $0.76 to $0.78, driven by strong top line growth and double-digit operating profit growth.

Next, moving to fiscal 2008, with only one quarter to go, organic sales and volume growth should come in at about 5%. Within this, we expect pricing to contribute 1 point to sales growth and mix to reduce sales by one point due to fast developing market growth. In addition, foreign exchange will have a positive impact of about 5%. Acquisitions and divestitures are expected to have a negative 1% impact on the top line. Therefore, in total, we expect all-in sales growth of about 9% for the year. We expect operating margins to improve by 20 or more basis points for the year, as we have seen throughout the year the combination of pricing, cost savings projects and overhead productivity improvements should offset the impact from higher commodity and energy costs.

The tax rate on the year is expected to be at or slightly below 28%. This includes the nonrecurring favorable tax item in the September quarter of $0.02 a share. On the bottom line, we are increasing our EPS guidance range from $3.46 to $3.50, to $3.48 to $3.50 a share, reflecting our strong March quarter results.

Now turning to fiscal 2009, we currently expect to deliver another year of top and bottom line growth, consistent with our long-term targets. 4 to 6% organic sales growth, 3 to 5% organic volume growth, about 1% of net pricing and mix, 10% earnings per share growth, and 90% or greater free cash flow productivity.

Of course our GAAP EPS growth will, for fiscal year 2009, will be higher than 10%, due to the net impact of the Folgers transaction in fiscal 2009 and the discrete tax impacts in fiscal 2008. As we report results next year, we plan to give shareholders perspective on the underlying performance of the company in addition to the GAAP results. However, our primary guidance will be on a GAAP basis consistent with how we handle Gillette.

To recap our plans on Folgers, during the last call we announced we will split, or spin off the coffee business. We expect to decide on the deal structure in the June quarter and complete the transaction during the first half of next fiscal year. Assuming we do a split, the transaction will create a substantial one-time gain in fiscal 2009. It will also create $0.03 to $0.05 of dilution due to the loss of Folgers operating profit and stranded overheads. As we said last quarter, we are planning to take a one-time increase in restructuring charges during fiscal 2009. This will be in addition to our existing 300 to 400 million annual restructuring budget. This additional restructuring will allow us to eliminate stranded overheads and offset the negative earnings per share impacts from the coffee transaction.

Net, our objective for fiscal 2009 remains to deliver underlying EPS growth of 10%, despite the loss of coffee earnings. Underlying EPS excludes any one-time Folgers transaction impacts and nonrecurring tax impacts. Therefore, if we back out the $0.02 gain from our first quarter, 10% earnings per share growth would translate into a fiscal 2009 guidance range for the underlying business of $3.80 to $3.85 a share. We will provide GAAP guidance in, on a range basis once our August and year-end -- call at year end. Now, to summarize today's call, we are focusing on the key business drivers of long-term sustainable growth. We are delivering balanced top and bottom line growth behind the strength of our portfolio, our innovation pipeline, and a focus on productivity.

We are converting earnings to free cash flow ahead of target, returning more than 100% of this cash to shareholders through dividends and share repurchase. Looking forward, we are confident we should be able to continue to deliver consistent, reliable top and bottom line growth. The growth that our shareholders expect from P&G, even during challenging times, such as these. And now we'll open up the call to your questions.

OPERATOR: Thank you. (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS). We'll turn first to Bill Pecoriello with Morgan Stanley.

BILL PECORIELLO, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Question on the $2 billion higher commodity outlook and additional pricing that you're taking, just in terms of how the consumer's been reacting. You mentioned that in some subcategories, you're seeing private label gain some share, but you're also gaining share, and also we've seen North America, West Europe overall category growth slow, so as you put through these additional prices, what are you watching in some of these subcategories, both on the growth rate of the category and any tradedown? Thanks.

CLAYTON DALEY: We're always watching the market shares closely, including, of course, as we said, private labels. The experience over the last three years, and we've been going through this now for a while is, if we raise prices to recover commodity and energy costs and both other branded competitors and private labels tend to raise prices by about the same percentages because they have the exact same cost problems, we tend to see that the dynamics of the category remain relatively stable. We have not seen, as we've talked before, substantial trade-down in those circumstances, but we're continuing to watch it and the way we of course read it is to look first and foremost, our market share positions in aggregate and then also watch the dynamics of the rest of the markets.

A.G. LAFLEY, CHAIRMAN, CEO, PROCTER & GAMBLE COMPANY: Bill, one quick addition. We watch obviously volume consumption, unit consumption, and dollar market shares, and market growth. And we watch what I would call indicator categories. One example, paper products are generally a category that come under some pressure when there's an economic downturn, and one of the things that's been heartening for us has been the performance of our paper businesses and especially you get into product lines like the family care, tissue/towel businesses, bath tissue, paper towels, facial tissue, and in every case, we're building share.

We're not seeing the intensity of private label pressure that we've seen in past turndowns and I think the reason we're doing this is we're close to consumers. We understand the consumer value equation. We offer tiered product and pricing options from Charmin and Bounty Basic through value-added products, and as Clayt said, we've kept our relative pricing sharp and we've actually improved our consumer value.

CLAYTON DALEY: Thanks, Bill.

OPERATOR: Next we'll turn to John Faucher with JPMorgan.

JOHN FAUCHER, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Yes, good morning. Clayt, I apologize for this, a point on clarification here. The $3.80 to $3.85 number is before the impact of Folgers dilution or after the impact of Folgers dilution?

CLAYTON DALEY: That is, that includes the impact of Folgers. In other words, we're offsetting the $0.03 to $0.05 of Folgers dilution in that guidance.

JOHN FAUCHER: Okay, thanks. Then quickly on the inventory side, your gross margin performance was definitely better than I think people were expecting or fearing from that standpoint. Your inventories look like they were up. You talked a little bit about volume leverage in the quarter, any impact on the gross margin from that standpoint and is that something we need to account for in the fiscal fourth quarter?

CLAYTON DALEY: No, not really. I think the inventories are about in line with what we expected, given what's going on, and there should not be any fourth quarter gross margin impact.

A.G. LAFLEY: They follow our initiative flow basically. That's what's going on. So inventories are up a little bit when we're in a period of heavy initiative launch and they come back down when we're in more of a sustaining period.

CLAYTON DALEY: Thanks, John.

OPERATOR: Now we'll turn to Wendy Nicholson with Citi Investment Research.

WENDY NICHOLSON, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: I wanted to ask about some of the margin performance by segment, particularly in grooming and beauty. Grooming margins have just been on fire now for kind of two years and I'm wondering kind of at what point, I assume that's benefiting from some of the integration savings and whatnot, but at what point do those margins start to kind of flat line or expand at a lower rate? Similarly, on beauty, it's kind of surprising that the margins are continuing to come under pressure. I'm wondering, are you spending at an outsized rate on advertising in the beauty segment, yet still not getting the volume pickup, or is that just a negative mix shift to the emerging markets?

CLAYTON DALEY: On grooming, we have seen a lot of progress on grooming margins and that has been a combination of synergies from the Gillette acquisition and as we have reallocated our costs across the new combined company, the Gillette segment has picked up some benefit there as well. Clearly, we expect ongoing margin improvement from the grooming segment, but not to the degree you've seen it over the last two years.

In beauty, I think what you're seeing in those numbers is the combination of the impact of the divestiture that, where we had the business in the base period and the business is no longer in the segment and you're also seeing the fact that, yes, beauty is a competitive business right now and we are making sure that our marketing and our spending with retailers is competitive during this period.

A.G. LAFLEY: And Wendy, quickly, it's offensive investment. I mean we're obviously investing in Head & Shoulders. You don't drive 17% organic volume growth and 22% organic sales growth on a mature business like that unless you're investing behind the product innovation. We're investing in Herbal Essences, so the hot spot restage expansion, and we're defending ourselves, and there are some major initiatives by major competitors which we've talked about a number of times, and we're making sure that our consumer continues to have a chance to purchase and try our brands and products, which we think offer better performance and value.

CLAYTON DALEY: Thanks.

OPERATOR: Chris Ferrara with Merrill Lynch, please go ahead.

CHRIS FERRARA, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: Hey, guys, just wanted to ask about the beauty category deceleration. You guys, and I guess others have talked about as well. It's kind of contrary to things we've seen in the past. A.G., you talked about indicator categories. Are we seeing somewhat of a shift? Why is beauty not hanging in as well as it might have in the past? And also, do you find retailers pushing private label with better placement? Because we've seen that anecdotally in the channel.

A.G. LAFLEY: Chris, I'm going to try to keep this simple, but as you can imagine, we're in so many different beauty categories that it's -- and channels -- different product categories, different channels, and different geographies that it can be a little more complex. But I think in the past, we have seen slowdown in more discretionary segments in beauty and in more discretionary channels. So Jon mentioned the slowdown in the department store channel for prestige products. I don't think that's unusual, okay? Across our cosmetics line in the past we've seen slowdown on some of the more discretionary items. We were actually pretty pleased because our cosmetics business held up well, and Cover Girl particularly held up well and in fact grew share in the period.

So there are discretionary fragrance purchases at duty-free shops and airplanes. They tend to fall off, okay, during periods of economic turndown. So we've seen some of that, okay? And there's no doubt that there is some slowing, as John said, but knock on wood, most of these categories are still growing and I think that's important. That's what I remind our team. They are slowing, but they are still growing. As long as there's growth, there's business out there for us.

The second thing that's, that's going on is with the competitive intensity, frankly the pricing gets reduced. When we have competitors out there basically giving away, buy one, get one free for months, that obviously reduces the value of the consumption that's going on in the market, and then when we feel we have to selectively match, that sort of compounds that issue. We know from the past that we'll work our way through it because that kind of spending is not sustainable, and the same thing goes on with some of these launches.

Again, I don't want to pick on individual situations, but there is a country in the world right now where there's a major launch by a competitor going on, and they are spending five times what we're spending, in that market. That is obviously not sustainable, okay? So I think what's happening is that's depressing the consumption a little bit.

I think the fundamentals in beauty are still very good. I think they are very good. And the kind of beauty care brands and product offerings we have are generally affordable broadly. So I'm still cautiously optimistic about beauty. We have the stronger initiative program coming and we've got a lot of, a lot of good strong brands and we've got a lot of good innovation programs.

CLAYTON DALEY: Good innovation still drives business.

A.G. LAFLEY: It really does.

CLAYTON DALEY: Thanks.

OPERATOR: Next, with Deutsche Bank, Bill Schmitz.

BILL SCHMITZ, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Good morning.

CLAYTON DALEY: Hi, Bill.

BILL SCHMITZ: You're always a bigger advertiser then if you look broadly against your peer group. Do you change that and become more promotional in this environment to make some of the products a little bit more reasonable for people? I mean you've already talked a little bit of a tradedown from Tide to Gain, it's great that it stays in the family, but will you kind of tweak the promotional spending based on the environment?

A.G. LAFLEY: Bill, the part of trade spending is essentially pricing and in an environment like this, we watch that very carefully and we try to stay competitive, as Clayt said earlier. So that slice of our trade spending does increase slightly, okay, in this environment. And that varies dramatically by category, okay?

But beyond that, we're trying to direct the money to consumers and shoppers because our game is basically a trial game. I've talked about this before, but if you step back and look at our biggest single upside growth opportunity is to get trial at the target goal rates, on the new brands and new product initiatives we already have in the market, we think that's worth at least $2 billion in incremental net sales. Okay. So we try to direct our spending to consumers and shoppers in a way that they can try our new brands and products.

The Swiffer brand has been out for a decade. We have something like 15, 16, 17% household trial in the U.S. We convert 60-plus percent of that trial to regular usage. There are a lot more than 15, 16, 17% of U.S. households who would be interested in purchasing Swiffer and using it on a regular basis and that's just one of 20 brands that have significant trial opportunity. So we try very hard to make sure that most of our spending is directed against the consumer, whether it goes through the trade or whether it goes direct to consumer. And we try very hard to make sure that we're, that we're spending, on trial generating activity.

Regarding the Tide/Gain situation, what's really going on is we're growing share on Tide and we're growing share on Gain and we're growing it faster, and it's not unlike the tissue towel or family care situation. We offer a tiered line of brands and product offerings that appeals to different consumer groups at different price points and different value equations.

BILL SCHMITZ: Thanks.

OPERATOR: Now we'll move to Lauren Lieberman with Lehman Brothers.

LAUREN LIEBERMAN, ANALYST, LEHMAN BROTHERS: Thanks. It's actually a perfect lead-in. I was going to ask again about mix as being part of your algorithm particularly in developed markets, because I know since you report global business units, we can't see the impact of mix in developed markets and it's been something I've been curious about for a while. I was surprised to hear that that's still part of your plan for fiscal '09 and how you're going to offset some of the incremental cost inflation. I would just think there's maybe a little bit less appetite in the market for some of the value-added higher price point innovations that just drives a category slowdown, and, that would apply to everybody, not just to Proctor. Is that not how you guys are thinking about it? I mean what am I missing that I would think consumers would not be as interested in the next higher price point blank?

A.G. LAFLEY: Lauren, it's all about consumer value, okay, and I'll try to give you three or four quick examples. First of all, I think we need to be crystal clear here. We're trying to create the right portfolio of brands and product offerings and price points. So there's a tiered, an appropriately tiered offering that appeals to lower income consumers all the way up to higher income consumers. But some very quick examples, the hottest item right now in the deodorant business is Clinical Strength. We command a phenomenal premium on Clinical Strength. We sell Clinical Strength for twice the retail price and it's flying off the shelves. The hottest item in coffee right now is Dunkin' Donuts. It's sold at a premium price. Folgers gourmet line is going strong.

I mentioned tissue/towel. Yes, on the one hand we're selling Bounty Basic and Charmin Basic, but on the other hand, we're selling a number of value-added products that, that are, can command 10, 20% premiums in a category where the consumer watches every penny. Perfect 10 in retail coloring, we're convinced if we can get trial of this product, that there's going to be a lot of conversion. That's sold at a significant premium, okay, to the at-home colorant offerings that are in the market.

Laundry detergents, the Tide with Febreze, the Tide with a touch of Downy, they sell well to their audience. In fact, one of our realizations this past six months has been, yes, we've got to cover ourselves on the low end or the point of entry of the market. That's important, but we also can't miss the opportunities for trade-up, because when you step back, we're still selling our brands and product lines at price points from $2 to $10. These are not, make or break expenditures for consumers. Our hottest item in oral care has been Pro-Health. Our fastest growing line of oral care brushes has been the higher end manual brushes and the power brushes. I could just go on and on. Yes, the issue is value, but we can drive higher consumer value ratings and higher consumer value perception with products that are trade-up products.

OPERATOR: Now we'll move to Ali Dibadj with Sanford Bernstein.

ALI DIBADJ, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: Hi, guys. Wanted to ask a question about one of the levers you're pulling to offset these astronomical commodity costs. In particular, getting a little more flavor around the cost cutting that you're doing and trying to understand I guess two parts. First off, the mix that you have seen between Gillette synergies, these savings versus reformulations and other overhead savings, playing in so far, then how that mix goes forward. Secondly, if you can give us a sense of examples or magnitude around those.

CLAYTON DALEY: Well, I think that the Gillette synergies do not end completely this year, but they, they obviously trail off. There are some additional synergies from Gillette that come in over the next two years, as we complete primarily the supply chain and the distribution center consolidations, although they become a much smaller factor in the total equation going forward. So really the cost savings focus stays where it's been this year on very much focused on formulation and what we do on our manufacturing costs, and then as we talked before, and frankly spent a fair amount of time talking about at CAGNY, was our programs to really go after overhead costs, productivity, raising our targets for productivity improvement over the next couple of years. That's, that's pretty much it.

A.G. LAFLEY: Ali, I'll give you two that you can follow and a third broad area that we touched on at CAGNY. You look at our global business shared services operation, and over the course of this decade, we will basically halve the cost of our back room on a percent of sales basis. So that has just been a tremendous engine of productivity and every year we're finding new quote, unquote, shared services that we can consolidate, and run in that networked partnership.

The other one is you can look at our R&D productivity rates. As strong as our innovation pipeline has been, I've been just as proud of the ability of our business units and our R&D organization to become more productive and more efficient every year and that shows up in reduced R&D as a percent of sales.

We've talked about Connect + Develop. Last year half of the new product initiatives we brought to market had at least one external partner. You know, there's no end to that in sight. There are a lot of partners out there that we can work with and that, of course, I think increases the effectiveness and success rate of our innovation program, but it also obviously lowers the cost. And then the third one, Clayt touched on. We now have a process in place that I think anchors the various businesses depending on their sustainable growth goals. It anchors their overhead targets, and there are a number of opportunities for us to get a lot more effective and a lot more efficient and we have very quietly launched a five-year program that is going to make us considerably more productive. We'll move from 5% annual productivity growth in the 80s and 90s to 6% in this decade so far to 7 to 8% and we think we can sustain it.

CLAYTON DALEY: Thanks.

OPERATOR: Andrew Sawyer with Goldman Sachs.

ANDREW SAWYER, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Yeah, sure, hey, guys. I was hoping to follow up on a question from earlier about consumer reaction to price increases. I guess you guys talked a bit about what you've seen in the United States, but I was wondering if you could walk us through maybe what type of pricing you're looking at in some of the developing and emerging markets and any early responses from consumers and retailers to that, especially with the backdrop of an inflation across a broader basket of goods. Thanks.

CLAYTON DALEY: Well, the pricing in individual markets depends, of course, on what has happened in local currency to the commodity costs, and of course as we know, with the weakness of the U.S. dollar, commodity and energy costs have gone up the most in dollar denominated markets. Of course the U.S., but there are also still some markets in places like the Middle East and a few other places that tend to be still dollar linked.

In markets that are either Euro-based or tend to move with the Euro or markets where currencies have not weakened as much, we'll price accordingly in the local market, depending on what costs we need to recover. And of course importantly, what cost increases and local currency have competitors seen. And -- but we are taking price increases very broadly across the world. We have taken -- because it doesn't -- no matter what currency you're in, commodity and energy costs are up, and so we have priced broadly in Western Europe. We're pricing broadly in eastern Europe, across Asian markets and even in China. So, we're just seeing the need to pretty broadly increase prices in most of our categories.

A.G. LAFLEY: The only quick thing I would add is if you look the a the relative impact on consumers, let's come back to the U.S., clearly gasoline at the pump is far more of a shock than our fairly modest 3 to, usually 3 to 7% or so, most of them range. And the other thing is they have already seen much higher increases on most of their food items because of the pressure of agricultural commodities. So there's no doubt the consumer's under fairly broad pressure, but I'll just keep coming back to this. It all depends on the consumer value equation, and we watch that like a hawk. The other thing you have to remember is virtually everything we sell is not discretionary. It's a staple. You have to go to the bathroom. You have to get up in the morning and brush your teeth. You've got to shower. You've got to shave.

CLAYTON DALEY: Wash your clothes.

A.G. LAFLEY: On and on, you've got to wash your clothes. We know there's been no change in shampooing frequency. Once these habits are established, they become part of the routine and then it's a matter of where do I get the best value, where do I get what I want and what I need? So, so far, knock on wood, it's holding up, as we said.

CLAYTON DALEY: Thanks.

OPERATOR: Next up is Jason Gere with Wachovia Capital Markets.

JASON GERE, ANALYST, WACHOVIA: Good morning. Your marketing spending up 9% was pretty nice. Just two questions, one, can you talk about what that was in the U.S., and two, with cable and network advertising rates been going up over the last few months, I was just wondering, can you talk about the number of impressions that you've seen and have you been doing any shifting to more, other alternative channels, such as online advertising and how you're managing that process? Thanks.

A.G. LAFLEY: Jason, you're into details that I would be guessing at and I'm not going to guess. But I will tell you broadly what we're doing.

We are, we are looking at any and all ways to reach consumers when we believe and/or hopefully know they are most receptive to our communication and our message. And that means a lot more diversification in our media programs. We have major brands now with a majority of their communication in non-television. You look at our, what we do in our feminine care business, for example, which is a big business, the vast majority of the media that we run in that is what we call alternative media.

So we're looking for effectiveness and efficiency. We're running market mix modeling and market return on investment analyses on an ongoing basis to make sure we are spending our money wisely. In some categories, we can spend a little less and be more effective. In other categories, Wendy's question about beauty care, we're spending a little more in some places because we need to. But we're trying to be strategic on the one hand and practical and pragmatic on the other.

CLAYTON DALEY: Thanks, Jason.

OPERATOR: Joe Altobello with Oppenheimer, please go ahead.

JOE ALTOBELLO, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER: Thanks, good morning, guys.

CLAYTON DALEY: Joe.

JOE ALTOBELLO: Just want to go back to the commodity cost situation for a second. Over the last, let's call it 6 or 8 weeks, have you seen rising commodity costs start to impose some discipline in some of your more commodity-intensive categories? Are competitors still heavily promoting in those categories? Also, on the $2 billion incremental for '09, does that assume that commodities continue to accelerate, or does that assume some leveling off?

CLAYTON DALEY: Well, in the second part of the question, it assumes that the feed stock prices stay at current high levels. So we're not assuming that oil and natural gas go higher, but we're also not assuming that they go down. And therefore, those higher feed stock costs will eventually play through the refiner and cracker spreads and through into the materials that we buy. There's obviously some time lag between when we pay the higher prices for the materials that we buy, but we're expecting this to all flow through into our costs for next fiscal year.

Now, the first part of the question relative to promotion spending, I don't think we've seen anything significant of promotion spending cutbacks, and I think part of that's because of the time lag. The feed stock prices are up, but the, the actual prices and the materials move on a time lag. So what we would expect to happen is we're going to try to raise prices to recover commodities, presumably other manufacturers will do as well, and therefore there ought to be some, normal stability in the marketplace. And that tends to be what we've seen over the last two or three years.

A.G. LAFLEY: Joe, in terms of trade promotion rates and consumer promotion rates, they are more dependent on the competitiveness caused by the ebb and flow of innovation in the marketplace. So I think, all the best players invest when they have a major new initiative and they defend. There are two things that we have seen. One, in some critical material areas, there are actually shortages. It's not just an issue of cost. It's an issue of availability, and frankly, it's a good time to be a leader and to be, be truly global because there are some instances where we've been able to get access and to get availability at a reasonable price when we know that all the players in the market were not able to get the material. Okay, and that obviously enables us to, to continue to deliver performance, quality and value in our products.

CLAYTON DALEY: Thanks.

OPERATOR: Next, Connie Maneaty with BMO Capital Markets.

CONNIE MANEATY, ANALYST, BMO CAPITAL MARKETS: Good morning.

A.G. LAFLEY: Hi, Connie.

CONNIE MANEATY: I have to ask a question on batteries. What is Duracell's split between U.S. and international battery sales? Has Duracell regained the market share that it lost while Gillette was being integrated? And then finally, was the decline in the U.S. battery sales due more to inventory management at retail or a decline in category growth?

A.G. LAFLEY: That's a three-part question, Connie. We'll see if we can get them. Yes to the last one. And recall we saw -- yes, in part, to the last one. I think the other phenomenon that's going on is there is a battery inventory at home, and you can draw the battery inventory down a little bit. So there's, there's a consumer behavior, an understandable consumer behavior cause, and then there's also, you know, a retailer phenomenon. But the battery market has softened, but as we reported, our share is up. We've regained some to most, depending on the market, of the share that was sort of bought away from us in the first year, plus.

CLAYTON DALEY: I think we've been candid in the past that when we integrated Gillette into P&G, we were very focused on blade razor, very focused on oral care. We did not brilliantly integrate Duracell and I think we really, though, have gotten our act together.

A.G. LAFLEY: And you saw it in the execution in the Thanksgiving and Christmas period. And if you've been in stores, you'll see it in our execution now. We're just executing a lot better at retail and we have a strong experienced Duracell team.

I don't know the exact split of developing and developed, but I will say this, we still think we have growth potential in developed, okay, and we think there's a lot of growth potential in developing.

Now, in general, Gillette was very strong in developed markets and growing off a very small base in developing and we've been able to expand distribution in developing markets. We've been able to deliver a lot more coverage and frankly, we can deliver great value.

CLAYTON DALEY: And there's still an opportunity in a lot of developing markets to execute conversion to alkaline from zinc carbon that of course occurred in the developed markets over a couple of decades. Thanks.

OPERATOR: Filippe Goossens with Credit Suisse, please go ahead.

FILIPPE GOOSSENS, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Yes, good morning. And question on the hair care side. Obviously hair care is a big component of your beauty business. If you look specifically at the Pantene brand, Clayt, somewhat of a diverging, in terms of, diverging in terms of performance between the U.S. and the emerging markets. So my question is two-fold. Within the U.S., how much of the weakness in Pantene is the result of category issues, or is it again, as you mentioned, in the last earnings call, a result of less than expected consumer acceptance of the last reformulation of the product and then the question obviously is what can you do to kind of boost the performance of Pantene in the U.S.?

In emerging markets, then, as my second part to the question, you have stepped up significantly your advertising spending, particularly in Latin America. What is the initial read in terms of volume and the impact on your margin structure there?

A.G. LAFLEY: Okay. That's a multipart question, so let me take developing markets first. You're right, Pantene is strong in developing markets and it's growing -- it's one of our engines of growth in China right now. You're seeing the investment in Brazil as we begin to build stronger a hair care position in Brazil. It has been one of our engines of growth in SEMEA, so Pantene is strong there. Pantene has also been incredibly strong in Japan and Korea. In fact, our hottest brand the last few years in Japan has been Pantene. We've introduced a high end line called Clinicare. It's been received very well by Japanese consumers. In Western Europe, we're solid, but we're basically flat, and the issue, as we've said, is the U.S. Now there are three things going on in the U.S. There's a little bit of market softness, but frankly, the hair care market's still growing at a fine rate. There are a lot of -- there have been a lot of initiatives out there from us and from competitors, and we've basically held our share. I think we were down 0.4 in the recent period.

So basically the losses on Pantene were picked up by Head and Shoulders, Herbal Herbal Essences and Aussie. And you're right, the last initiative did not resonate with consumers as well as we hoped it would and frankly as well as our premarket research and learning indicated it would. So we're working, the right people are working on this and you'll see over the next 6, 12, 18 months initiatives on Pantene to get it growing again in the U.S. That's the issue. But if you step back, we've still got basically a 15-share brand that's, we got 14.8 or whatever share brand on Pantene, we've got a 13.8 or whatever share brand on Head and Shoulders, and if you look at the competitive brands, the biggest ones are sort of around 6, 6.5, so we still have a very strong franchise. We don't have a wounded duck here. We just have a big brand that we've got to take to the next level.

FILIPPE GOOSSENS: Thanks.

OPERATOR: William Chappell with SunTrust Robinson Humphries, please go ahead.

WILLIAM CHAPPELL, ANALYST, SUNTRUST ROBINSON HUMPHRIES: Thanks.

CLAYTON DALEY: Bill.

WILLIAM CHAPPELL: Going back to your commentary I guess pre, or during CAGNY, it seemed like in the U.S. you were basically seeing kind of a channel shift, but no real huge softness in the consumer. Now it sounds like the consumer's slowing down a little bit, maybe implies that March was kind of worse than January-February. Is that the case, and then kind of what trends are you seeing in the U.S. as we've moved through April?

A.G. LAFLEY: Actually, March was a little bit stronger, so I think the channel shift you're referring to is the move to discounters and frankly discounters with what I would call clear value offerings. And you see that in the retail, retailer reports every month. I mean the club stores led by Costco, Sam's and BJ's have held up pretty well. And, Wal-Mart has performed pretty well. And I don't think that should be surprising. Okay. I don't think that should be surprising. They have known value offerings in terms of their retail format and I think shoppers understand the value equation very clearly, and I think there has been a correlation between the retailers who have been clearer about their value offering.

The only thing we've seen -- the only changes we've seen is some slowing, but still growth in some of the markets and the other changes we've seen are in the consumer behavior around number of shopping trips, how far they will go to shop. I mean for obvious reasons with gasoline getting close to $4 a gallon in some parts of the U.S., people are consolidating their trips, they are reducing their trips. Now, the baskets are going up, and then in terms of the mix that's in the basket, our mix has been holding up pretty well. We wouldn't be building share on 60-plus percent of our business in the U.S. if it weren't.

So I think, the whole issue is how long does the downturn last and how deep does it get. And we'll know more, and that's why we've been -- we'll know more in the months ahead and that's why -- that, and the energy and cost commodity pressures is why we're being appropriately conservative and cautious about next year.

OPERATOR: Now we'll turn to Alice Longley with Buckingham Research.

ALICE LONGLEY, ANALYST, BUCKINGHAM RESEARCH: Hi. I'm looking for an update on what your organic growth rate was by geographic region. Usually you give us a little sense of that in the U.S. and Western Europe and local currencies and then developing markets. I think in the December quarter, your U.S. organic growth was 6% and then low single digits in Western Europe, and what is it now?

CLAYTON DALEY: The North America was basically in the -- as far as organic sales growth, North America was mid singles. Western Europe was low singles, and the developing markets, as we said, were low double digits. And that is, you know, relatively consistent with the patterns we saw, we have seen in the last couple of quarters.

A.G. LAFLEY: And frankly, relatively consistent with the market growth patterns, right? Europe's 1 to 2.

CLAYTON DALEY: Yeah.

A.G. LAFLEY: You know, U.S. is 2 to 4, and developing are sort of, you know, mid to high single digits and we're running at the top end or above.

CLAYTON DALEY: Thanks.

OPERATOR: And that's all the time we have for questions. Gentlemen, I'll go ahead and turn the conference back to you for any additional or closing remarks.

CLAYTON DALEY: All right. Thank you again for joining us this morning. And as I said at the outset, the, the IR team and myself included will be around the rest of the day to answer any questions you have. So thanks for joining us, again.

OPERATOR: With that, we'll conclude today's conference. Thank you, everyone, for your participation.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
prgml : The Procter & Gamble Company
   IN
i258 : Cosmetics/Toiletries | icnp : Consumer Products | ipcare : Personal Care Products/Appliances
   NS
c11 : Plans/Strategy | c15 : Performance | ntra : Transcript | c151 : Earnings | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
Voxant, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020080517e44u000z6
  


 HD
 Q3  2005  Procter  & Gamble Company Earnings Conference Call - Final  
   WC
14,055 words
   PD
28 April 2005
   SN
FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.    

   LP
OPERATOR: Good day, everyone, and welcome to the Procter & Gamble third-quarter earnings release conference call. Just a reminder -- today's call is being recorded. The rebroadcast, reproduction or retransmission of this conference call, in whole or in part, is strictly prohibited without the prior written consent of the Procter & Gamble Company.  

Now, for opening remarks and introductions, I'd like to turn the call over to the Chief Financial Officer, Mr. Clayt Daley. Please go ahead, sir.  

   TD
CLAYT DALEY, CFO, PROCTER & GAMBLE: Thank you and good morning and welcome to Procter & Gamble's quarter-end conference call. A.G. Lafley, our CEO, and John Goodwin, our Treasurer, join me this morning. I will begin the call with a summary of our third-quarter results. John will cover our results by operating segment, and I will wrap up with an update on the Gillette transaction, our expectations for the June quarter and a brief outlook on next fiscal year. A.G. will join the call for the Q&As and as always, following the call, John Goodwin, Thomas Tippl and I will be available to provide additional perspective as needed.  

Now onto the March quarter results. We delivered another strong quarter with organic sales growth of 8%, driven by 7% volume growth on a comparable basis. Diluted net earnings per share were $0.63, up 15% versus year ago and $0.02 ahead of the consensus. This was our 13th consecutive quarter of top and bottom line growth at or above our long-term objectives. This performance comes on top of a very strong base period, where organic sales grew a record 9% and EPS grew 14%.  

For the quarter, net sales were 14.3 billion, up 10%. Acquisitions and divestitures reduced sales growth by 1% due to the juice divestiture last August, while foreign exchange added 3%. Organic sales growth was up 8%, comfortably above the top end of our target range. Total shipments volume increased 6% and organic volume grew a strong 7%. All business units delivered volume growth of mid single digits or better, with healthcare, baby and family care and beauty care setting the pace. Healthcare volume grew 14%, baby and family care was up 8%, and beauty care grew 7%.  

Developing market volume grew more than 15%. In our December analyst meeting, we talked about winning with more of the world's consumers as a key part of our top-line growth strategy. These results indicate that we're making good progress against this major growth opportunity.  

For the first time in four years, price had a positive impact on sales, up 1%. This is a result of price increases to recover higher commodity costs, and we have announced additional commodity related price increases in the U.S. for diapers, dish care, Pepto-Bismol and Metamucil. Market acceptance of our price increases has been generally favorable, particularly in developing markets, family care and coffee. But despite escalating prices for petrochemically derived materials, competition has not changed price since our price increases in fabric care, both in the U.S. and Western Europe. Also, competition had an escalated promotion spending in categories such as dish care and oral care globally and diapers in Western Europe. We are carefully monitoring our business progress in these categories over the June quarter and are committed to provide consumers with a competitive value proposition.  

Next, earnings and margin performance -- operating income was up 17% to 2.7 billion. Operating margin expanded a strong 110 basis points. The improvement was driven primarily by scale leverage from higher volume and tight cost control in areas of cost of goods and SG&A, as well as pricing to partially recover commodity cost increases.  

Gross margin was down slightly, as we absorbed a significant negative commodity impact of more than 100 basis points. We expect that we're close to the peak of year-over-year gross margin compression from commodities, since we will begin to lap higher commodity prices in the base periods. However, we believe commodity prices will remain at high levels for the foreseeable future.  

Selling, general and administrative expenses are down 120 basis points. We are benefiting from scale leverage in overhead and marketing support, particularly in developing markets as a result of their continued rapid growth. We are maintaining rigorous cost discipline across all businesses, resulting in lower overhead spending as a percent of sales, and we're making good progress with our marketing ROI work to get more out of each dollar spent. As a result, we continue to deliver very strong top-line growth with marketing spending as a percent of sales at or below year-ago levels behind a strong initiative program.  

In the back half of the fiscal year, we have been launching in North America alone eight beauty care initiatives, including Pantene Color Expressions, Herbal Essences styling products, Nice'n Easy with Colorseal technology and Boss (indiscernible); three fabric and homecare upgrades, including Tide Coldwater and Dawn with Bleach Alternative, four Pet health product initiatives, including a new Eukanuba indoor cat formula as well as a series of oral care initiatives, including Crest Pro-Health rinse, two new Scope flavors and Crest Sensitive toothpastes. Our initiative program outside of the U.S. is equally robust and supported by strong marketing programs. This is driving volume and sales growth even in challenging markets such as Western Europe.  

Now, before we move to cash performance, I would like to make a few comments on the impact of the share repurchase program, foreign exchange, and tax. As expected, the stepped-up share repurchase was neutral to EPS in the March quarter. This is due to the treasury stock accounting method, which has a lag effect on the average quarterly shares outstanding, while the additional interest expense is immediately reflected in the income statement. For the same reason, plus the fact that we won't purchase shares between the time of the proxy and the shareholder vote, we continue to expect less than $0.01 EPS improvement for the fiscal year as a result of the stepped-up share repurchase program.  

With regard to foreign exchange, we are benefiting from unusually stable developing-market currencies. This year, P&G's basket of emerging market currencies has been appreciating modestly versus the dollar. Therefore, compared to the past two fiscal years, we estimate a slightly stronger contribution to earnings from currency to the tune of about 1 percentage point. Now, this is, of course, significantly below the currency benefits on the top line because of our substantial natural hedge position and our corporate hedging programs.  

Now, let me turn to tax. The higher March tax rate of 31.9% is due to a provision for taxes on anticipated dividends from foreign subsidiaries. This was largely offset by a reduction of tax reserves related to favorable tax settlements in a number of jurisdictions. These discrete type tax items have to be recorded in the quarter they occur.  

In line with prior guidance, the Company still expects the effective tax rate for the fiscal year to come in at about 30.5%. This is slightly higher than the 30.3% recorded for the first half of the fiscal year due to more profit coming from higher-tax locations. Now, I want to note that this does not reflect the potential impact of repatriating income earned outside of the United States under the American Jobs Creation Act, commonly referred to as Homeland. We are still waiting for clarification and revision of provisions that need to be redrafted to determine the amount of earnings we may repatriate, if any, under the Act.  

Now, on to cash. Operating cash flow in the quarter was more than 2.6 billion, about $330 million less than the same period last year. Working capital performance was negatively impacted by higher inventories, up two days from a year ago. This is a result of higher commodity costs, pipeline build for the strong initiative program, as well as rebuilding inventories on a number of categories where we were previously on allocation.  

Free cash flow for the quarter was $2.2 billion. Capital spending for the quarter was 3.3% of sales and we are on track for another year of Cap spending at or below our long-term target of 4%. Free cash flow productivity was 126% for the quarter. This brings the year-to-date cash flow productivity to 91%, and we remain on track to meet our 90% target for the fiscal year.  

Now, I will turn it over to John for a discussion of the business unit results by segment.  

JOHN GOODWIN, TREASURER, PROCTER & GAMBLE: Thanks, Clayt.  

Our beauty care business delivered very strong results in the quarter. Volume increased 7%, led by skincare, fine fragrances, and feminine care. Sales were $4.9 billion, up 9%, including a 3% gain from foreign exchange. Net earnings were $701 million, an increase of 23%, driven mainly by strong top-line growth. Earnings were also helped by synergy savings from the Wella acquisition integration, which remain on track with the initial targets. In addition, the increased ownership of the China business and the Wella domination agreement added to earnings growth.  

These benefits funded increased marketing support for new initiatives, such as Olay Quench hand and body motions, Olay Moisture rinse in-shower body moisturizer, Pantene Pro-Health and Color Expressions initiatives, geographical expansion of Herbal Essences into Japan, and hair and skincare portfolio expansion in Asia, including Rejoice, SK-II and Olay White Radiance eye cream.  

Global skincare delivered its sixth consecutive quarter of greater than 20% volume growth. The growth this quarter was broad-based with developed markets up midteens and developing markets up more than 30%. In North America, Olay skincare volume was up midteens behind the launch of the Quench and Regenerist night initiatives. Olay (indiscernible) three months all-outlet value share of U.S. facial moisturizers was 39%, up 5 points versus the prior year.  

Global retail hair care volume grew mid single digits. The Pantene brand grew volume double digits in both developed and developing markets, and the Rejoice brand grew strong double digits, driven by new initiatives in developing Asian markets. Haircare value share in Western Europe was up nearly 2 points to 22%. In North America, haircare value share was 32%, down just over 1 point. A steady growth of the market-leading Pantene brand was more than offset by soft Herbal Essences results and minor brand discontinuations.  

The global feminine care business delivered another quarter of strong volume growth, led by developing markets, with volume up more than 20%. Volume of the Naturella brand more than doubled versus the same quarter last year behind expansion into Central Eastern Europe and continued growth in Latin America. The Always/Whisper pad franchise grew double digits behind a new cotton-light top sheet upgrade in developed markets and mid-tier entries in developing regions. Always is now at record high value share for the feminine pad segment in both the U.S. and UK with shares of 49% and 66% respectively.  

Healthcare also delivered very strong results. Volume grew 14% and sales were $2 billion, an increase of 16%. Actonel, Prilosec OTC, Vick's and the developing markets oral care businesses led the top line growth.  

Foreign exchange helped sales by 2%. Net earnings were $252 million, up 22%, driven mainly by the strong top-line results. Also, this is versus the strong base period where earnings grew 48%.  

In personal healthcare, Prilosec OTC volume for the quarter was more than double the amount shipped in the same quarter last year, partially due to the rebuilding trade stock. Prilosec OTC U.S. all-outlet value share of the heartburn segment is 32%, up 2 points versus last year. The Vick's business had a very strong quarter with double-digit global volume growth due to the later cold and flu season compared to last year. Global oral care volume was up high single digits. Developing markets delivered another quarter of very strong volume growth, which more than offset slight volume declines in developed markets. The soft developed results were mainly due to contraction of the U.S. tooth whitening market versus the prior year. However, volume growth of tooth whitening on a sequential basis was up high teens versus the December quarter.  

In the toothpaste segment, P&G's U.S. past three-month all-outlet share is 33%, in line with the same period last year. This is despite increased levels of competitive spending. In China, Crest's past three-month value share is now over 26%, up 7 points versus the prior year.  

Pharmaceuticals posted double-digit volume growth, led by Actonel. Actonel continues to deliver broad-based share growth and is now over 33% global value share of bisphosphonates for the treatment of osteoporosis. Actonel has now grown global share for 34 consecutive months.  

Baby and family care had another good quarter of volume, sales and earnings growth. Volume grew 8%, led by high single digit growth in baby care and mid single digit growth in family care. Sales increased 13% to $3 billion, including a 3% help from foreign exchange. Pricing helped sales growth by 1%, driven by mainly by increases taken last summer in North American family care to partially recover higher pulp and energy costs. This has been partially offset by pricing adjustments in select Western European baby care markets to respond to heavy competitive promotional spending.  

Net earnings for the quarter were $339 million, an increase of 56%. The very strong earnings growth was driven by fixed cost leverage from volume growth and manufacturing cost savings. Price increases on the family care business largely offset the negative impacts of higher commodity prices.  

In family care, U.S. all-outlet share for Bounty is 41%, up nearly 1 point versus last year. Bounty continues to get excellent customer support behind the new pack format introduced last year. Charmin U.S. all-outlet share is up 27%, up versus 1 point in the prior year. Charmin has benefited from a new pack line-up and the new mega-roll pack to address consumers' desire for longer tissue roll life.  

Baby care delivered broad-based volume growth with developed markets up high single digits and developing markets up in the teens. U.S. Pampers diaper past three-month all-outlet value share was over 28%, up more than 2 points versus year ago behind the continued growth of the Baby Stages line, specifically, the new Feel 'n Learn training pants. In addition, we recently launched Kandoo toddler care wipes and hand soap in North America, building on their success in Western Europe.  

Western Europe Pampers diaper share is now over 54%, up 2 points versus a year ago. This growth has been driven by ongoing product innovations on both the Baby Dry and the premium baby stages of development line.  

Fabric and home care delivered solid top-line growth with volume up 5% and sales were $3.8 billion, up 7%. Foreign exchange helped sales growth by 3%. Mix lowered sales by 1% due to rapid growth in the laundry detergents business in developing markets. Net earnings for the quarter were $508 million, an increase -- a decrease, sorry, of 6% versus last year due mainly to higher commodity costs. Also negatively impacting earnings was a one-time charge related to supply-chain sourcing optimization.  

During the quarter, P&G continued to launch the high-end initiatives in the U.S. with the introduction of Tide Coldwater. Similar to the recently introduced Tide With a Touch of Downy, this initiative gives the consumer great total wash value from a premium-priced product.  

Also during this quarter, P&G increased list prices on the U.S. ERA and Gain brands by 8% to partially offset increases in commodity costs. This is coupled with a temporary increase in promotion funds for these brands to allow retailers to phase in the higher prices during the quarter and to keep our brands competitive with those that have not taken similar price increases.  

Global fabric care volume was up mid single digits, led by China. P&G laundry value share in China is now 19%, up 5 points versus last year. In Western Europe, laundry share is now 32%, up 1 point versus a year ago. In North America, P&G laundry value share is over 58%, up slightly versus the prior year.  

Home care shipments were in line with a very strong prior-year base period when volume was up more than 20% behind initiative introductions. Marketshare positions in home care remain strong. P&G past three-month all-outlet value share for Swiffer cleaner systems is 78%, up 5 points versus last year. P&G U.S. hand dishwashing liquid's value share is 54%, about flat versus last year, and the market-leading Dawn brand is at 41% share, up more than 1 point. SK continues to build its leadership share in the U.S. auto dishwashing segment with value share of 58%, up 6 points since last year. Our Febreeze holds a 77% value share of fabric sprays and has quickly earned a 12% share of the instant air freshener market behind the successful launch of Febreeze Air Effects.  

P&G remains focused on growing brands over the long-term with meaningful innovation, but we will also keep brands priced competitively to ensure we deliver superior consumer value.  

Snacks and coffee volume increased 6% for the quarter, led by double-digit volume growth of the coffee business -- sales of $767 million, up 16%. Foreign exchange helped sales by 1% and price increases to align retail prices with green coffee costs increased sales growth by 9%. Net earnings were $105 million, up 91% versus a low base period. Fixed-cost leverage from higher volume growth, the price increases to offset higher green coffee costs and lower merchandising spending helped to restore margins to levels existing prior to the significant increase in raw material prices.  

Despite (indiscernible) being the first mover to increase prices, Folgers grew past three month U.S. all-outlet value share versus the prior year and is now at 33% of the market. Pringles' past three month all-outlet value share was over 14%, up slightly versus last year. We continue to get great customer and consumer response to our unique printing and flavor customization initiatives.  

That concludes the business unit review. Now, I will turn the call back to Clayt.  

CLAYT DALEY: Thanks, John.  

Before closing with guidance, I want to provide a brief update on the progress of the Gillette acquisition. We have now formed integration teams for the regions, functions and product lines led by Jim Kiltz and me. Workers started to map out the specific steps to capture the committed synergies. The plans are being designed to effectively and efficiently bring together these two great companies. While it's early, we are on track so far.  

On the people side, we're putting in place processes to identify the players will we want to field as part of the Best team. We have also made several key decisions about how the combined company will be managed. We will operate within the P&G, GBU NBO structure that has proven successful over the last four years and is frankly fairly similar to Gillette's current operating structure. We will create a new segment for Gillette consisting of blades and razors, Braun and Duracell businesses, including the marketing, R&D, manufacturing and engineering functions supporting these operations. The Gillette segment will report to Jim Kiltz. Blades and razors will continue to be based in Boston, Braun in Kronberg, Germany, and Duracell in Bethel, Connecticut for the foreseeable future. Gillette's oral care and personal care businesses will be combined with P&G's oral care and deodorant and Old Spice businesses with locations still to be determined. The combined oral care business will report to Kerry Clark, while the combined personal care business will report to Susan Arnold. Our on-the-ground operations will go to market as one company everywhere around the world. This means that P&G's NBO and Gillette's commercial operations will merge into a single organization. The combined company will operate under P&G's shared services model. Also, Gillette will adopt P&G's reporting framework, moving to a fiscal year that ends on June 30.  

Now, let me update you on the closing timing for the transaction. We expect to mail the proxy in the first half of May. The P&G shareholder vote is currently scheduled for June 13; the Gillette shareholder vote is currently scheduled to take place on June 14. These dates are based on the expectation that the SEC will declare that we filed S-4 effective in early May.  

Next, to guidance for the June quarter. Topline for the quarter as well as the fiscal year should continue to expand at a high single digits rate. For the June quarter, foreign exchange is expected to contribute about 2 to 3% to sales growth. The negative impact from developing market mix and the juice divestitures should be offset by positive pricing. Operating margin is expected to be about flat versus the June quarter a year ago. In light of higher commodity prices and uncertainty about competitors following our price increases in developed markets, we believe it is prudent to make sure we have the financial flexibility to address whatever issues confront us in the marketplace. We remain committed to taking appropriate steps to maintain competitive value where and when necessary. We will continue to support our strong initiative program to keep the topline growing.  

As mentioned earlier in the discussion about tax, we expect the rate for the year to come in at about 30.5%. We will update tax guidance once we have more clarity about the potential opportunities created by the American Jobs Creation Act.  

With record to earnings per share, we continue to expect a range of $0.54 to $0.55 per share for the June quarter and with the March quarter over-delivery, we're raising the fiscal year earnings guidance to a range of 2.64 to 2.65 per share.  

In summary, we are pleased with our ability to deliver a second consecutive year of 14% earnings per share growth, especially since this year has been characterized by a very challenging cost and competitive environment.  

Now, turning to next fiscal year, our financial planning process is not yet complete, but I want to provide some preliminary perspective. To be clear, this excludes the impact of the Gillette acquisition, which we outlined at the time of the deal announcement. We will incorporate Gillette in our guidance once the closing date has been established.  

For fiscal 2006, we expect P&G to deliver another year of sales growth, ex-FX, towards the upper end of our 4 to 6% long-term target range. This is despite a very strong base-period comparison where organic sales have been growing at a rate of about 7%. Based on our early estimates, we expect fiscal 2006 to be our fifth consecutive year of double-digit EPS growth. This is consistent with the current analyst consensus estimate of about 10% growth, which we believe is appropriately conservative at the current time. We continue to expect margin pressure from raw materials, particularly in fabric and home care. This is a result of the tight supply situation in a number of feedstock chemicals. We also are not counting on competitors to reduce promotion spending from the current high levels. Finally, we're going to lap a very strong base period in a number of businesses, including beauty care, baby and family care, as well as developing markets.  

Now, with the guidance just mentioned, as I said, it was all on a P&G stand-alone basis without Gillette. As we laid out in New York, post-Gillette, we will raise our sales growth FX target by 1 point to 5 to 7% through the end of the decade. We have confidence in our ability to achieve this objective on the basis of our strong track record over the past four years and robust initiative pipeline, Gillette's exposure to faster growing categories and an equally robust pipeline on their side, gross synergies generated by the deal in three key areas -- in developing markets in categories such as personal care, oral care and hair removal, and from approved go-to-market capabilities in developed markets. Again, this is just a quick overview. We're still completing our planning for next year and will provide full guidance on fiscal 2006 during the June quarter earnings call.  

Now, that concludes the business comments for the quarter. As you know, the discussions include a number of forward-looking statements. If you look to our most recent 10-K and 8-K reports, you'll see a discussion of factors that could cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from these projections. As required by Regulation G, we need to make you aware that the call has referred to a number of non-GAAP measures. Management believes these measures provide our investors valuable information on the underlying growth trends of the business. Organic refers to reported results, excluding the impacts of foreign exchange and acquisitions and divestitures, where applicable. Free cash flow refers to operating cash flow less capital expenditures. We have posted, on our Web site,  www.PG.com , a full reconciliation of non-GAAP measures to U.S. GAAP to provide additional clarification.  

Now A.G., John and I would be happy to open up the call to your questions.  

OPERATOR: Thank you, Mr. Daley. The question-and-answer session will be conducted electronically today. (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS). Amy Chasen with Goldman Sachs.  

AMY CHASEN, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Good morning. Can you just talk a little bit in more detail about the pricing? Obviously, you know, it shifted positive. Is there any place where you've taken pricing where it's not kicking in? What other opportunities are you thinking about? Just so you know, Energizer just announced a price increase in the U.S., so is there opportunity in batteries? So if you could just talk about that. I guess what I'm really getting at here is you mentioned that, on the mid-tier laundry detergents, that, you know, you are offsetting some of the pricing with promotional activity in the short term. Are there other categories where you're doing that as well?  

CLAYT DALEY: Well, first, we obviously can't comment on batteries, so that's a question that would have to be, at this point, directed to Gillette. A.G., do you want to -- (inaudible)?  

A.G. LAFLEY, ANALYST, PROCTER & GAMBLE: I think, Amy, the simple thing -- way to think about our pricing strategy, our tactics and our execution is we are trying to achieve the right balance and we're trying to be responsible and price for commodity increases that are going to sustain. I think we've talked about this at two previous earnings calls. We want to make sure that, when we see commodities rise, that we understand where they're going to be and how long they're going to be there, and then take appropriate pricing action.  

The only place I can think of where I would say the pricing hasn't stuck as well as we would like is in -- a little bit in Western Europe -- laundry -- and a little bit in the U.S. I still think it's early in the U.S., though, and it remains to be seen how that's going to work out but in all the other instances I can think of, the pricing -- our retail partners have moved on the pricing; consumers have understood it and have responded. As John mentioned in the call, in most of the instances, you know, the share progress we were making we continued to make post the price increase.  

AMY CHASEN: Can you just tell, if it was up 1% this quarter? What is your expectation for next year?  

A.G. LAFLEY: It's too early -- because we really need to go through all the business sector -- (multiple speakers).  

CLAYT DALEY: It's one of those things where we will be -- next year, we will be comparing price increases we took this year, which will have a partial-year impact, to next year. Obviously, depending on what happens in commodities, we're going to have to determine whether any additional pricing is appropriate. But it probably won't be more than 1%.  

AMY CHASEN: Okay. Could you also just talk a little bit more about Western Europe and give us some idea of what your volume growth in the quarter was in that market? You also alluded to some promotional activity in diapers, or maybe it was a list price reduction. Can you give us a little more detail on what you did there?  

A.G. LAFLEY: Okay, let me take Europe first. We've been growing, you know, mid singles in Western Europe, and our volume has been growing a bit ahead of our sales. There is some deflationary pricing in some markets, in some categories. As this won't surprise you, Amy, what we watch like a hawk is our market-share progression and you know, we've fairly consistently been growing market share 80-plus% of our volume in Western Europe. We also watch what I would call the critical markets, and you and I have talked about Germany in the past before. In Germany, right now, over the past 12 months, you know, we are growing our market share in all of our core businesses. We are growing in laundry; we are growing in baby diapers; we are growing in haircare, shampoo specifically; and we are growing in fem care. We are not only growing faster than the branded competition, but we are growing and in all cases, for instance, all the over-the-same period is actually giving up share.  

So you know, if you step back from your questions about pricing and your questions about Western Europe, what we are always trying to do is make sure we have the consumer value equation right, make sure that we are appropriately investing in our innovation so we get trial among consumers and watch our market share progressions.  

You know, Europe -- you know and I know several European economies are slowing down but our point of view is that is sort of outside our control. What's inside our control is what we can do in our businesses with our innovation, our branding, our cost structure and our pricing. We try to get that right for the consumer and her value.  

AMY CHASEN: Just lastly on the Western European diapers, the promotional activity or the list price reduction -- can you talk about that?  

A.G. LAFLEY: On Western Europe diapers, yes, I mean the promotional activity by our principle competitor is, you know, is up dramatically in the past few months. Despite that, I think, as John mentioned in the call, you know, our market share in Europe is up a couple of points across the board, and in the UK where the activity has been really intense, we are above a 60 share and growing. So in the end, in the end, we're bringing a better -- we're bringing a better brand and we're bringing a better line of products that are delivering value to young moms, and that is really what's making the difference.  

AMY CHASEN: So did you take a price cut there or are you just increasing your promotional activity?  

A.G. LAFLEY: We are just -- I'll tell you what we're doing. Market by market, baby diaper line by baby diaper line, we are looking at where we have to keep the pricing relative to the competition to continue to offer a good value. So what we're doing is we are dialing our promotional activity very specifically on the part of the line where we want to keep the value right in the country where we want to keep the value right. (multiple speakers).  

CLAYT DALEY: (multiple speakers) -- primarily through promotion spending, not list.  

OPERATOR: Ann Gillin with Lehman Brothers.  

ANN GILLIN, ANALYST, LEHMAN BROTHERS: I just wondered if we could switch gears to developing markets. I'm wondering if you've yet assessed how soon after the Gillette merger you might begin to see a positive benefit to operating margins from growth in emerging markets.  

CLAYT DALEY: Well, there's clearly an opportunity there and we believe one of the synergies of the Gillette acquisition that can be captured on the early end is in developing markets. We are in countries like China. We have an excellent distribution system and we're going to be able to get Gillette products a lot more reach, a lot more distribution in front of a lot more consumers than they have been able to. On the flip side, Gillette brings meaningful scale to P&G in some countries like the (indiscernible) India, Korea, Australia and New Zealand, where they substantially add to our business. So, there's a topline opportunity here and I believe that, because the Gillette products have such good gross margins and contribution margins, there's no question that there should be some operating-margin leverage behind that topline. Those regions are -- as I mentioned on the call, we've already formed integration teams in every region, combining Gillette people with P&G people who are obviously looking at the organization design and how to capture the cost synergies, but are also looking at where we can get topline growth. Of course, from an anti-trust standpoint, we've had to be careful in some categories about what we talk about but obviously, as you know, in places like blades and razors and batteries, there's little anti-trust sensitivity.  

A.G. LAFLEY: This is A.G. Just real quickly, I think the simple way to think about it is -- and this shouldn't surprise you -- we're going to drive topline first. We're going to drive distribution, consumer trials and we're going to drive our sales. We're going to get scale, as Clayt mentioned, and we're also going to get mix help because of their margins, as Clayt mentioned. So I think it's a pretty virtuous circle.  

ANN GILLIN: So pretty quickly is --.  

A.G. LAFLEY: That's my hope.  

ANN GILLIN: Then secondly, I just wondered if you could elaborate on what the allocation of various products and what they were beyond Prilosec costs to revenue growth.  

A.G. LAFLEY: This is A.G. I really don't want to detail it for obvious competitive reasons, okay? But I will say it that, in addition to the cost challenges, in addition to the competitive intensity, we had such a strong lineup of innovations this year that, frankly, some of the take-off on some of the items was beyond what all of our pre-market and frankly what our retail partners and P&G expected it would be. So it was consequential, but we were able to manage it and Prilosec is getting a lot better, and we are pretty much shipping all the turnover products that our retailers need and we are as quickly as possible rebuilding -- building inventory so we can manage relaunches, which many of our retailers want to do. Virtually everything else is off allocation. Feel 'n Learn diapers is off. We may have one or two items that -- (multiple speakers).  

JOHN GOODWIN: (multiple speakers) -- the launch -- (multiple speakers).  

A.G. LAFLEY: (multiple speakers) -- but I mean you are right; it was very tough in the summer, the fall and well into this first quarter, because we had a number of things that were rocketing.  

I guess the last thing I would say is, as soon as we have the supply, we're going to go back and reinvent, because we're nowhere near the trial potential on a lot of these items, so we're going to stick with it until we go trial among the targets.  

ANN GILLIN: So another way to look at this might be that you got some benefit on the price line this year from having less to ship out or -- (multiple speakers)?  

A.G. LAFLEY: Well, I think -- I don't think that was a major factor on the price line. I think the price line, the major factor was really we priced where we had to and where it was most urgent first, you know, coffee, tissue towel, fabric, fabric care. I think that's really what's driving the 1 point in pricing.  

CLAYT DALEY: Right.  

A.G. LAFLEY: It wasn't product-supply issues.  

ANN GILLIN: Then on mix though, we might have taken -- (multiple speakers).  

A.G. LAFLEY: I think our mix could have been -- would have been even better. (multiple speakers) -- shipped everything. So what I'm looking -- frankly I'm optimistic about it, because as painful as it was and as carefully as we worked with all of our retailers, you know, in the vast majority of cases, we're going to be relaunching these items.  

OPERATOR: Wendy Nicholson from Smith Barney.  

WENDY NICHOLSON, ANALYST, SMITH BARNEY CITIGROUP: Could you say one more comment on the Western European issue? I know everybody has focused on that, and I guess the concern is that, even though the economies may be under pressure now, perhaps the role of the deep discounters is more of a secular change or structural change and it's here to stay. So my question is, if that's the case, where do you stand in terms of your cost structure in Western Europe? Do you think there's still ample opportunity for you to whittle down your costs so that could still be a strong and profitable market for you?  

A.G. LAFLEY: For sure. Here's the way that we think about Western Europe. It is the largest consumer market in the world that we compete in. I mean, it's an even larger consumer market than the U.S., okay, if you add up all of our categories. We are still, despite our high development in some of our core businesses, we're still not as developed as we can be in others and we're still not in all of the businesses that would like to be in in Western Europe. So we sort of take the long-term view of Western Europe, which is it's an attractive market, it's not growing at the rate of the U.S. but it is still growing, and you know, we understand the consumer pretty well there and there are a lot of unmet needs and wants.  

The second point is I think you are right about the discounter phenomenon. It's a different account type of discounter phenomenon but it isn't new; it's been around since the '70s. I think we could, you know, we could probably get a good discussion going about whether it has peaked or not. I don't even want to get into that but I think it will be there; I think it will be secular; it will be something that we deal with. That's why we focus so hard on making sure we are offering the right consumer value equation on every one of our brands and every one of our product lines, not just versus the branded competition but also versus the major discounters, the (indiscernible) of the world.  

Then finally, in the end, it's all about innovation. Are we innovating and delivering product performance, quality and value that is a value to consumers? Because they vote on whether it's a better value for them. The fact that our share has been growing at 80%-plus of our business is reasonably heartening.  

We know we're not going to grow at the same rate that we can grow in other regions because the economies aren't there, but we are hopeful that the economies will improve in a year or two. But it's too big a market, it's too important for us. You know, we're going to stay on our strategy, which is deliver better consumer value, improve the equity of our brands, lead on innovation.  

On the cost side, because you did start out there, we've improved our cost structure over the last three, four years. There's still a lot of opportunity to improve it more and Laurent Phillippe and his team are all over it.  

WENDY NICHOLSON: If you'd care to assume -- I imagine, given the size of Gillette's business over there, that that would be one area that would offer potentially huge opportunities for incremental cost-cutting?  

A.G. LAFLEY: When we get into it, I think there will be a fair amount of scale leverage as we combine the commercial operations and the go-to-market operations. I think you are right.  

WENDY NICHOLSON: Okay. Then my second question has to do with your plans for the share buyback. I know, when you announced the Gillette acquisition, you said that the share buyback would be a big thing over the next couple of quarters, but I believe there is a prohibition from you buying back stock for a big chunk of the second quarter because of the timing of the mailing of the proxy. Does that mean you're just going to be buying back a lot of stock during the part of the quarter that you're allowed to, or should we see less of a contribution in the quarter?  

CLAYT DALEY: Well, what we said, yes, there will be about a five-week roughly where we have to be out of the market. As I say, we've been buying stock since the announcement of the Gillette acquisition; we bought about 30 million shares after that announcement in the quarter. We are going to continue to buy until the S-4 is issued, the proxy is issued. Then after the shareholder vote, we will actually be able to buy more. Okay? So -- but still, net-net-net, we're talking about less than $0.01 of contribution to EPS in the quarter. We are really going to start to see the real impact on earnings next fiscal year, although of course we hope to get the Gillette deal closed as soon as practical and that will therefore, obviously with all the new shares that are being issued, have a huge impact in the other direction.  

OPERATOR: Bill Pecoriello with Morgan Stanley.  

BILL PECORIELLO, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY DEAN WITTER: Good morning, everyone. My question is on the -- there's always a trade-off on the margin versus topline. In this quarter, you delivered upside on both. Can you talk about the leverage in the SG&A line, how much you increased market spending by in the quarter? You had mentioned, in the prepared comment, about getting more bang for the buck on the marketing dollars spent. Also, was there anything in that SG&A line in terms of lapping any restructuring costs in the base period? Going forward, how should we think about getting leverage out of that line?  

A.G. LAFLEY: Bill, this is AG. There is leverage on the SG&A line. There is leverage on the SR&A (ph), the overhead side, which, you know Clayt kind of talked about a number of times, but there's still (inaudible) leverage there. We continue to get leverage in -- we continue to get leverage in our GBS operations, which is beating our cost objectives, improving the service quality and still allowing us to innovate where we need to. In IT, we're still getting leverage in the MDO (ph) organization. As Wendy asked, with Gillette, I think there's more leverage there when you combine commercial (indiscernible) and MDO. We're still getting leverage in R&D, and we're getting leverage in R&D because we're doing more connect and development. We continue to do more connect and develop on the outside, so our research dollars are more productive.  

On the marketing side specifically, the simple way to think about it is our dollar spending was up in support of the innovation and the initiatives but because of marketing mix modeling and marketing ROI, we're getting more efficient and more productive with every dollar that we spend. I think there's still a lot of opportunity there. Every brand in every country that has done market-mix modeling or marketing ROI has improved the productivity of their marketing spending without exception. So you know, this is just -- we are training it like crazy; we are finding appropriate what we call light versions to get into the developing markets where they don't have all the resources and can't afford, you know, all of the modeling that's required, but I think we're going to benefit from this for at least another two or three years.  

BILL PECORIELLO: Great, so the drivers that we saw in this quarter for some time to come are going to continue to be drivers?  

A.G. LAFLEY: I think so.  

CLAYT DALEY: Although, Bill, I have to say the margin expansion in this quarter as you saw was unusually high, all right. So you know, while the leverage points are still there, I wouldn't suggest that we can build this -- well, we are obviously not guiding to this margin improvement in the fourth quarter and fiscal, and this level of margin improvement is well above our long-term goals.  

BILL PECORIELLO: There was nothing unusual, though, in the quarter in terms of the lapping of restructuring this quarter versus last quarter or last year?  

CLAYT DALEY: Not really.  

BILL PECORIELLO: Then just on the pricing, as you talk about the balance in the portfolio, you mentioned, beyond the Western Europe diapers, some other categories like oral care, dish care where there has been more promotional competitive environment. As you're looking at the criteria like your marketshare trends, promotional price gaps, if you decide you need to reduce those promotional price gaps, are you looking elsewhere in the portfolio, in terms of additional pricing you can take in other categories or geographies to offset anything you need to do in the ones that you had mentioned?  

A.G. LAFLEY: Well, we always try to balance. First, we try to balance within the category or GBU worldwide, so across categories and regions. The second thing we look at is we look at across the portfolio.  

The other balance, Bill, is we are still driving cost reduction programs in all of these businesses. In other words, they all have cost-improvement programs, so we try to offset as much of the commodity cost pressure as we can, you know, on the cost side, because we're trying to keep to consider value-right and we don't want to get in a situation where you have big swings in promotions, levels, you know, the depth of promotion. We actually -- because we think that leads to -- you know, that can begin to impact consumer loyalty, so when we see deep discounts, you know, that's really not a good thing for consumers, because consumers begin to wonder, gee, what is the price of dish liquid? Okay? The other thing we try to do is we think it's bad for your percent promoted to get too high, so we are, frankly, surprised at the level of percent promoted that some other key competitors have gone to in the past -- (multiple speakers) -- but we would steer away from that.  

CLAYT DALEY: But in response to your question, we would generally not price one place to spend another. We would look at pricing against cost increases on a category and geography basis.  

BILL PECORIELLO: There's nothing yet alarming to you in terms of your marketshare trends versus the promotional -- the depth of promotion you're seeing in some of these categories, requiring any adjustment at this point -- something you're still monitoring?  

A.G. LAFLEY: Yes, we are monitoring it every day and every week.  

CLAYT DALEY: That's one of the reasons why we stayed conservative on guidance in the fourth quarter, because we've got to make sure that we've got the flexibility to be competitive on a value basis in the marketplace.  

JOHN GOODWIN: As I mentioned in my section, Bill, our shares are holding up pretty well, so as A.G. mentioned, we're going to monitor them closely in the face of continued competitive spending. But you know, there's been some other areas, some other companies that have donated shares to some of the competitors that have been doing high promotional spending, but we're going to very closely monitor our situation.  

A.G. LAFLEY: I guess, in general, it's more of an issue in the daily/weekly household businesses. It is not a major issue in health, personal care or beauty care, and that's one of the virtues of the balance of our portfolio. You know, they just don't come under a lot of pricing and promotion pressure.  

We think, frankly, it has been pretty rational in the family care business; that's tissue and towel. The places that I watch the most closely are the basic fabric and dish care types of businesses, yes, and oral care.  

OPERATOR: Bill Schmitz with Deutsche Bank.  

BILL SCHMITZ, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Good morning. Has the allocation stuff gone too far? I mean, have you gotten too disciplined in terms of your capital spending ahead of big, new products? Because I know you didn't disclose some of the products that have been on allocation but some of the things we've seen in the marketplace suggest that pretty much every big launch you have had recently has been an allocation out of the blocks. if you look at Febreeze, the Olay Quench, even going back to Pearl. So is there kind of a change in the mindset that is causing that at P&G right now?  

A.G. LAFLEY: Well, first, to be clear, the vast majority -- the majority of our innovation and initiatives go out and are not in allocation, okay? You did hit a few that we did have to go in allocation and in every case, our best pre-market research didn't come close to predicting what the take-off would be with consumers. We went through this with a fine-tooth comb, and there are different root causes in different businesses. The fact that it sprung up across a number of businesses and the fact that it sprung up on low capital intensity initiatives and mid to high capital-intensity initiatives, you know, led us to conclude that the capital issue was not a root-cause issue.  

I mean, I will give you just three or four. One was the length of supply chains. You know, the more your supply chains stretch around the world and into developing markets and the more parties that are involved in your supply chains, you know, the more you really have to manage the responsiveness and flexibility of the supply chain. Frankly, in some cases, we got caught with raw material or packing material shortages, okay, and that was part of the commodity availability issues.  

In some cases, frankly, we didn't listen to major retailers who said, you know, we can do a whole lot better. We didn't listen as carefully, okay? So when they said we're going to go vertical on this thing and it's going to blow away the numbers that you're seeing in your pre-market, we moved it up some but we didn't move it up all the way and frankly they blew it out of the water. So those were the kinds of things that got us. Hopefully, we've learned from it and as I said before, we are going to relaunch, because there's still a lot of demand for these new products and there's still a lot of unmet trial opportunity and we are back in supply in virtually everything and with sufficient supply to relaunch.  

So you know, we learned a lot; we work our way through it. You know, we are looking at this as an engine of growth going forward.  

OPERATOR: A.G. Edwards, Jason Gere.  

JASON GERE, ANALYST, A.G. EDWARDS & SONS: Good morning. A question for you on the laundry business -- I know that the commodity costs certainly are a big pressure right now, but you also mentioned there was a one-time issue with the supply (indiscernible). How much did that contribute to the 300 basis point decline in margins in the quarter?  

CLAYT DALEY: It's a couple of percentage points of it.  

JASON GERE: Okay. I mean, when do you expect to see margins start to return back? I know obviously that Western Europe is a little bit of an overhang right now for everybody. So I mean, when would you expect to see the margins start to return to kind of some of the levels that they were at before?  

A.G. LAFLEY: Jason, this is A.G. We are trying to a run a delicate balance in laundry right now and you know, you have to remember the way P&G runs the laundry business. It looks a lot more structurally like a personal care or beauty care business. So we have pretty strong, we have a pretty strong margin position going in. We've got three things going on. One is we have -- the majority of the commodity cost hit has come in fabric and home care, and as we mentioned earlier, even though we have moved on pricing, you know, in some cases, the market hasn't moved.  

The second thing we have going on is we have a lot of innovation that we're bringing to market right now, and we don't want to be pennywise and pound foolish. We don't want to be to short-term oriented and not do what is right for the mid and long-term, so we've made the conscious decision that, despite the commodity cost pressures, we are going to invest in the launches. We still have a lot of investment to do in Tide with a Touch of Downy, Tide Coldwater. We have additional innovation coming out that's next year. We have the Gain fabric softener; we have the Simple Pleasures. I mean, we just have a lot of innovation in the laundry business right now, and it wouldn't be the right thing to not invest in it.  

Then the third thing is this market is shifting and some of our competitors are exiting or virtually exiting from the market. As a result, the primary competition is no longer the branded manufacturers; it's the value brand, or it's the retailer brand. As that happens, we are adjusting our portfolios. We've talked about this a number of times in previous calls. That means we are making sure we have a strong lineup of mid-tier brands and we're making sure that our price differences, you know, our price premiums are the right premiums to continue to offer consumer value. So those are the three things we're trying to dial in, okay? We are trying to dial in recovering the commodity cost pressures, we are trying to dial in the right amount of investment in our innovation, and we're trying to dial in the right price spread and the right mix of brands and product offerings so we can compete effectively and continue to grow share profitably in a new marketing environment.  

BILL SCHMITZ: Is there any update on the Alexandria plant?  

A.G. LAFLEY: We are up and running, up and running. (multiple speakers) -- bayou!  

BILL SCHMITZ: What's that?  

A.G. LAFLEY: A monster in the bayou.  

BILL SCHMITZ: I was wondering if you could just give a little bit of update on Wella, how the integration is going, if there's any change from your past comments there. Also, just I guess some of the learnings in beauty care and maybe just touch upon the Herbal Essence weakness.  

CLAYT DALEY: Well, I think, let me talk briefly about Wella. Wella's integration is actually going very well and in fact, Wella contributed meaningfully to the beauty care results in the quarter. You know, once we got the domination agreement in place, that pretty much gave us the green light to do the integration work that we needed to do. I think the momentum on the Wella business is reasonably good.  

BILL SCHMITZ: Then just on Herbal Essences?  

A.G. LAFLEY: Herbal Essences is a tale of two cities. As John mentioned, we're still expanding and growing internationally, and we are redoing the equity in the U.S. Even in the U.S., where all of it has struggled, it's still a 4.5 or 5-share business. It's still, like, the third or fourth biggest brand, depending on the region, depending on the customer. So, we are going to give it a good facelift; we're going to get the equity right; we're going to make sure we are targeting the right consumers who are the prime prospects for Herbal Essences, and we're going to bring innovation to the brand and try to get it growing domestically while it growing fast internationally. It's a great brand.  

BILL SCHMITZ: Terrific. Thanks a lot.  

OPERATOR: Connie Maneaty with Prudential.  

CONNIE MANEATY, ANALYST, PRUDENTIAL EQUITY GROUP: My question has been answered.  

OPERATOR: Chris Ferrara with Merrill Lynch.  

CHRIS FERRARA, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH & CO.: Have you guys talked a little bit about the role of developing markets in leveraging overhead in the quarter specifically? I was wondering if, at this point, are there any specific businesses where, on the operating margin side, where the developing markets business actually tends to be margin-accretive for the business as a whole?  

CLAYT DALEY: Margin-accretive is beauty. I mean, in general -- and of course this varies from market to market, but in Asia, there's no question about the fact that the beauty business is margin-accretive and in many of the household businesses, we still have upside margin potential, in some cases substantial upside margin opportunity, whereas in places like our Eastern European business, Middle East and Africa, that business is much more balanced, a much bigger household component but a household component that makes good money and the growing beauty care component. So we, you know -- but at the end of the day, when you are growing your unit volume at 15-plus%, you sure are to be getting some fixed-cost leverage behind that.  

CHRIS FERRARA: I mean, if you look forward, are there other businesses besides beauty that you think, maybe five years from now, where your margins in developing markets are better than developed markets?  

A.G. LAFLEY: I would say some of the personal care businesses could be.  

CLAYT DALEY: Yes.  

A.G. LAFLEY: -- could be. There's no reason, in my opinion, why, for instance our femcare business, couldn't generate very good margins, whether they are actually better, because we have 50-plus shares in Western Europe and we have nearly 50 shares in the U.S., but I think they could be very good margins. There's no reason -- oral care margins are good in developing markets.  

I think the only place where the margins are really -- the two places where the margins are really tough in developing markets are laundry. That's because of the low net sales per case, okay, and affordability issues. The other place is baby diapers because you need scale. But I think baby diapers, you know, I've said this several times, our leading competitor in baby diapers is cloth, okay? There's billions of consumer households around the world who will have babies over the next 25 years, and if we can convert cloth, that industry could take off, but over time, you know, the key is that, over time, we have opportunities to build our margins in developing markets.  

Chris, if I can just make one more really quick comment, you know, you've got to remember, in our portfolio, which I thing is pretty balanced now -- it's about a third beauty; it's about a third health and personal care; and it's about a third household. We still have, you know, roughly 30% of our businesses that are not best-in-class on margins. So I still think there's a lot of margin upside and you know, those businesses, we know which ones they are and we are working very deliberately to improve their gross margins and improve their operating margins. So, I certainly don't feel like we've topped out on the margin side and I certainly don't feel like we've topped out on optimizing our cost structure and getting the full benefits of scale.  

CLAYT DALEY: The other thing, just to conclude the comment, is, in a lot of developing markets, particularly in beauty care, the focus now is on driving top line. Our margins are just fine. Therefore, we are very much focused on driving sales.  

CHRIS FERRARA: Then just on a completely different note, you bought about 2 billion shares -- $2 billion worth of shares back I guess. Why wasn't that number higher? I mean, I guess it looks like about a billion a quarter, which is actually a little bit below the run-rate for the whole program and presumably just would be where the share might be lowest. Were you restrained by other regs besides what I would have known about, I guess?  

CLAYT DALEY: Well, yes. There are SEC guidelines of the amount of shares you can buy in advance of the proxy and shareholder vote, which provided some limitation on us.  

CHRIS FERRARA: So did you buy back nearly as much as you could have, or could you have even bought back more despite -- (multiple speakers)?  

CLAYT DALEY: We bought back the maximum that we felt was prudent, given the SEC guidelines. So now, as I mentioned earlier, once the shareholder vote is complete, we will have more flexibility to buy stock.  

OPERATOR: Tom Marsico with Marsico Capital.  

TOM MARSICO, ANALYST, MARSICO CAPITAL: Thank you. I just wish you could maybe talk a little bit more about the emerging markets, what you saw during the quarter, the number of new products that were launched in emerging markets, and the successes that you saw from those launches.  

A.G. LAFLEY: Tom, this is A.G. I think the simplest way to think about emerging markets for us is they are clearly strategic. We've spent the last three or four years building the capabilities and the capacity to take both our brand platforms and our country organization platforms and to build them to a point where they could be platforms for innovation and growth.  

We are in every major developing market region. We are launching a full range of innovations across our core businesses and important businesses. So, John mentioned, in the call, Naturella, which is a new femcare brand, but we are also launching major product improvements on Always at the same time we do Naturella, so we're building a portfolio in femcare as we drive towards 40 and 50 shares, which is our ultimate goal in that market.  

In baby care, we have a highly integrated innovation program and we run a whole program of innovation in developing markets. Most of the innovation in developing markets, of course, is on the basic (indiscernible) diaper lines because that's what consumers can afford. We've just started a very interesting small test of a dramatically new and very affordable baby diaper in China.  

I mentioned cloth is our biggest competitor in developing markets; we are very hopeful that this will enable a lot of moms in developing markets to be able to afford disposable diapers. We've got it priced, you know, I can't remember exactly but I want to say around $0.10 to $0.11 a diaper, which is starting to get pretty close to the price of an egg in the open market. We feel. if we can get it to the price of an egg which she buys daily, then it might be a product that she could afford to buy for her baby and use daily.  

All of our haircare programs are essentially global. One of the reasons why our haircare business has been so successful in developing markets is we bring the same innovation that you see in the U.S. in a more efficient form and appropriately with the right aesthetics and the packaging and the right sizing and pricing but we bring that to China; we bring it to Latin America; we bring it to Russia; we bring into the Middle East. So the haircare business is probably our most global business with very strong developing market profile.  

In laundry, we have a very vigorous program in developing markets. Again, we use the same chemistry and the same ingredients; we just combine them in products that are far more efficient. We may have mentioned this before -- we created an entirely new system in China where the simple way to think about it is we make -- we take the performance actives and make the performance actives cocktail, and then we have contract Chinese manufacturers add the commodity chemicals, bag or box the detergent and put it into our distribution system. That enables us to be very affordable. Our share has been growing very rapidly in China, in laundry. We are now -- we can now see ourselves with a real shot at becoming the leader in the local market, and the leader in the local market has been a Chinese brand from the beginning. So it's -- Tom, you know, I just feel like we have a really strong program across the board. That's why, as Clayt said, we are growing 15% on the top line.  

TOM MARSICO: That's what I was interested in focusing on a little bit, maybe from even a higher level. I see that your CapEx is at the lower end as a percentage of sales. Is your infrastructure in the emerging markets where you're growing at a 15% rate -- instead of talking about Western Europe and pricing in laundry so much, is your infrastructure development in the emerging markets and your opportunity there, is that fulfilled? Is your geographic reach where you want it to be? Because there seems to be, if you're spending at the lower end on CapEx as percent of sales, that you have significant leverage there. Am I missing the point here?  

A.G. LAFLEY: No, definitely no, you got it. In terms of geographic reach, we are in virtually all the markets we want to be in.  

CLAYT DALEY: The point, though, is the CapEx goal is not at all limiting. So if we need capital in developing markets, to grow, we -- (multiple speakers).  

A.G. LAFLEY: Yes, but we have -- what we've done, Tom, is we've devised more efficient capital solutions, okay? In some cases, it's what we fabricate, where we fabricate it and how we fabricate it, and we do more of the fabrication in developing markets. In some cases, we have a mix system which, as I explained in China, we do some of the making. They do the finishing and the packing, so we use the contract network. In some cases, we just use contractors, which are more efficient, okay, and obviously save us the CapEx. But to your point about scale and leverage, I don't think -- I can only think of maybe one or two markets that we would like to be in which are not open to us now, but we are in 98%, 99% of the markets we want to be in. We have the installed manufacturing capacity or we have access to it, so that's not a constraint. This is important; we also have the local organization in-place now so we can execute with excellence. That's really important, because we have to have the distribution system in-place; we have to be able to market; we have to be able to do all the things that we have to do to deliver a product to the consumer where she wants it.  

TOM MARSICO: So the last question then, it would seem that you have significant operating leverage as GDP of the emerging markets grow at a much more rapid rate than what we're seeing in the developing markets.  

A.G. LAFLEY: We do.  

CLAYT DALEY: Right on.  

A.G. LAFLEY: That's why we are counting on them for consistent, double-digit top-line growth through the end of the decade.  

CLAYT DALEY: Right.  

OPERATOR: Joe Altobello with CIBC World Markets.  

JOE ALTOBELLO, ANALYST, CIBC WORLD MARKETS: I just wanted to see if you could compare and contrast your strategy when it comes to promotional spending, versus that of Gillette and how you think that might change post the acquisition.  

A.G. LAFLEY: Joe, it's tough because I would say it's not -- the compare and contrasting isn't so much company-to-company as it is industry-to-industry, and they are just in different industries. Just an obvious point of view, they do a lot more sports and personality marketing, okay, in the blades and razors business; we don't do very much of that, okay. Also frankly, we really shouldn't be commenting on Gillette's promotion practices.  

CLAYT DALEY: I think they've said publicly before (indiscernible) other promotion spending has been in pretty good control, and so obviously, our objective would be to keep that.  

JOE ALTOBELLO: Okay. Then second question, same topic here -- have you guys had any update from the DOJ or FTC regarding the antitrust issues on personal care and oral care?  

CLAYT DALEY: We are in dialogue with the FTC. They have issued a request for a second request for the data, which we are in the process of complying with, and so the process is proceeding pretty much as we would have expected, both in the U.S. and of course we are also engaged in Europe.  

OPERATOR: Fulcrum, Alice Longley.  

ALICE LONGLEY, ANALYST, FULCRUM GLOBAL PARTNERS: Good morning. two questions, one on oral care -- I guess you are growing at high -- in strong double-digits in the emerging markets. Can you tell me which markets that is? Is mainly in China and Central and Eastern Europe, or is it other markets as well?  

A.G. LAFLEY: China and Central and Eastern Europe, those are the big ones.  

CLAYT DALEY: That is primarily it.  

ALICE LONGLEY: Can you tell us what your share are now versus Colgate? I know you said in China you are 26%. Where is Colgate and similarly in Russia?  

A.G. LAFLEY: Well, I (LAUGHTER) we are ahead in China and Russia right now, and I think it's going to stay nip-and-tuck. So I don't want to get too hung up. You know what's important, Alice? It's not what our share is versus Colgate. What's important is that these markets are converting to world-class products and product technology, they are responding to the kind of brands that we offer in blendamed and Crest. I think developing market consumers want an oral care experience, if it's affordable, that's not unlike the oral care experience and product line that we offer in the U.S.  

The other thing you have to remember is there's still half the market in China that is wide open to Colgate and/or P&G, and we obviously want to get more than our fair share of that. The same is true in Central and Eastern Europe, so they are relatively white space in developing markets that are not walled cities and that's why we are attracted to them.  

ALICE LONGLEY: Okay. My other question is back to this pricing issue. Can you give us a little bit more specificity on the numbers? In other words, in Western Europe, is pricing on average down 1% or down 5%? Is it mainly to other branded companies that are, you know, causing this, or is it the hard discounters?  

CLAYT DALEY: It's definitely not 5%. We are talking about a percent or two in most cases, and on average. You know, again, the problem with talking about this subject is it's almost a different story in every country and every category as to whether it's been a branded competitor or whether it's been hard discounters because, not surprisingly, discounters have responded to some of the share progress we've made, as well as the branded competition.  

A.G. LAFLEY: The way to think about it, though, Alice, I think is, if you look at our scale -- I mean take laundry for example. If you look at our scale and you look at the fundamental cost structure of that industry, there's not a lot of room; you know, there's just not a lot. We are the only ones that have a lot of room. So, I think what you're seeing is, you know, you are seeing this all stabilize. I'm sure that some competitors in some markets have taken certain hedges; we have taken certainly hedges. That plays into the game in the short term, but overall, I wouldn't obsess -- I don't obsess on the price thing. I'm more interested in who is our target consumer, what is affordability for her, and what represents superior consumer value? You've got to remember. when you step back from this, most P&G brands are sold at a premium; some are sold at substantial premiums, even in the household business. So the issue isn't whether we can command a premium. We've got brand strength, brand trust, brand equity, and we are delivering products that are superior in performance quality and value so we can handle the premium. The only thing we have to watch is when the premium gets too high. We went through this in some detail over the last year or so, but there was a situation in Germany two or three years ago where our spreads, our premiums had gotten too high, so we managed our premiums down and we invested in innovation and we reinvested in our brands in marketing and all the shares in all the core businesses are up. So I don't get -- if these were commodity businesses, I would be watching every penny or every percent, but they are not commodity businesses; they are branded, value-added, differentiated businesses. So, it's more about managing the mix than it is about obsessing with just a price point -- (multiple speakers).  

ALICE LONGLEY: If we put your volume in Germany together with pricing in Germany, were you up in Germany?  

A.G. LAFLEY: Yes!  

ALICE LONGLEY: Okay. The last part of that question is, if I were to look at pricing in the U.S. alone, which is where you've taken all of these price increases, about how much is pricing up here? Is it something like 5% on average?  

CLAYT DALEY: No, we're talking about -- even though the coffee increase is all here in the U.S., the U.S. wouldn't be more than two.  

A.G. LAFLEY: Yes, because coffee is a small percent of our business. Remember, we didn't price the entire laundry line; we just priced part of the laundry line -- (multiple speakers) -- tissue towels. But if you add it all up, you're only looking at a couple of percent.  

ALICE LONGLEY: Perfect! Thank you very much.  

OPERATOR: Lauren Lieberman with CS First Boston.  

LAUREN LIEBERMAN, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE FIRST BOSTON: I'm sorry. I know this is getting to be lengthy. I just wanted to talk about margins by division and I guess overall operating profit margin. With the huge outperformance in baby and family care, I guess my specific question is how much of that is due to the plants running I guess 24/7 to work on the allocation issue and to rebuilding safety stocks?  

CLAYT DALEY: Not a whole lot. I think the margin leverage in baby care has been obviously volume-driven. It is a relatively fixed-cost-intensive business, so -- and mix up with a lot of new products and a lot of innovation.  

A.G. LAFLEY: Baby stage of development, Feel 'n Learn, they all improve our mix. They improve our sales mix and they improve our margin mix.  

LAUREN LIEBERMAN: Right but either of those points on volume or mix are not necessarily new this quarter or --.  

A.G. LAFLEY: No, what they are becoming is an increasingly larger percentage of our business there. The other thing is I said, Lauren, we've got ongoing cost reduction programs in all of these businesses and frankly, our paper business has just done a good job with our cost-reduction programs. They got them cranked up five years ago because we had to. They were in businesses with, you know, more-intensive capital structure and with more importance on managing every penny of your costs. You've also got to remember that while we think we are tied or maybe even have a small advantage on being best-in-class in tissue/towel, we are still not best-in-class in baby diapers because we don't have as much of our business in pants and we don't have the pants margins that our best competitor has. So we've still got opportunities to improve the margins.  

LAUREN LIEBERMAN: So then does that mean we should be thinking of this, as this margin changes, quarters being like a step function? I mean, we are now adding --.  

CLAYT DALEY: No, again, as I said earlier, we obviously made more margin progress this quarter than we anticipate as an ongoing impact. Obviously, that disproportionately occurred in the paper business. I mean, we made margin progress as a company at a time where actually the fabric and homecare margin was down, so the other businesses did extremely well on margin. And so -- but there's no question about the fact that margin improvement has been a key focus area for the baby care business, and they are delivering.  

JOHN GOODWIN: Our approach on margin is more longer-term, Lauren -- (multiple speakers) -- long-term restructuring, continuing improvement. You can't look at one quarter unfortunately and read too much into it because there's all sorts of lumpiness within that line. So you've got to look over a longer period of time to see the trend.  

CLAYT DALEY: The trend, though, in paper is up.  

LAUREN LIEBERMAN: Okay, all right. Then just one last thing is the healthcare division revenues were -- actually volume was just about double what I expected. So, good work there! But I wanted to know if some of that is from Prilosec coming off of allocation and again, is -- (multiple speakers)?  

CLAYT DALEY: There's no question there's been some pipeline refill on Prilosec.  

A.G. LAFLEY: Actonel's been incredibly strong -- (multiple speakers) -- Vick's had a good quarter. You have to remember the whole cold season came later this year. So I mean, we're doing well on Metamucil; we're doing well on ThermaCare (indiscernible) so it's not -- healthcare is not a one-trick pony.  

LAUREN LIEBERMAN: Okay. Then just you mentioned Actonel. Any outlook for changes for Actonel as (indiscernible) comes to market I think next month?  

A.G. LAFLEY: Not really. I mean, we are still -- obviously it is a new competitor. We're going to have to see what doc and consumer/patient acceptance of Boniva is going to be, but you know, we think we are positioned well. Osteoporosis is a disease of fracturing and physicians are selecting therapy based upon strong fracture-reduction data. I think you know Actonel provides rapid and sustained fracture reduction at both vertebral and non-vertebral sites such as the wrist and hip. This is what's important to women and men who suffer from that disease. Boniva has not demonstrated non-vertebral fracture protection. So I think -- you also have to remember this is still an under-diagnosed, under-treated disease.  

CLAYT DALEY: In a market that's been growing 20% a year.  

A.G. LAFLEY: Yes, so I think -- here's the win-win. Boniva stimulates another round of market expansion and growth and we get more than our fair share of it, which is sort of what's been the pattern over the last five years. But Actonel is a proven drug and we keep building share with that brand.  

LAUREN LIEBERMAN: Thanks, guys.  

OPERATOR: That's all the time we have for questions today. Gentlemen, I will go ahead and turn the call back to you for any additional or closing remarks.  

CLAYT DALEY: Well, thanks very much for joining us today and as I said at the outset, John Goodwin, Thomas Tippl and I will be around for the rest of the day to take any other questions you have. Thanks for joining us.  

OPERATOR: With that, we will conclude today's conference. Thank you, everyone, for your participation.  

[CCBN reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES CCBN ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. ]  

   CO
prgml : The Procter & Gamble Company
   IN
i25 : Chemicals | i258 : Cosmetics/Toiletries | icnp : Consumer Products | ipcare : Personal Care Products/Appliances
   NS
ntra : Transcript | gussec : Securities and Exchange Commission | gcat : Political/General News | ginda : Independent Agencies/Regulatory Bodies | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
FDCH e-Media, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020050512e14s000p4
  


 HD
 Q2  2005  Procter  & Gamble Company Earnings Conference Call - Final  
   WC
12,096 words
   PD
28 January 2005
   SN
FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.    

   LP
CLAYT DALEY, CFO, THE PROCTER & GAMBLE COMPANY: Good morning. I want to begin with an apology for the last-minute notice, and for asking you to join us so early in the morning. But we really appreciate the efforts that you've made to be with us here today. Welcome to the meeting to announce the agreement by Procter & Gamble to purchase the Gillette Company. Joining me today are A.G. Lafley, our Chief Executive, and Jim Kilts, Gillette's Chief Executive Officer.  

   TD
In terms of the agenda for today's meeting, I will first provide a very brief update on P&G's earnings and recent business results, including the guidance update. Then Jim will offer his perspective on the health of Gillette's business and the reason why they approached P&G. Then I will outline the deal structure and top line economics; A.G. will lay out the strategic rationale and why this deal makes sense for P&G shareholders. I will then take you through the financial details, including the synergy plan. This will be followed by A.G. and Jim discussing the integration plan, and A.G. will wrap it up. We will of course be available for Q&A.  

As always, I want to remind you -- I wonder if the lawyers did that. I want to remind you that the presentation this morning will include a number of forward-looking statements. If you'll refer to our most recent 10-K and 8-K reports, including the 8-K (technical difficulty) discussion of factors that could cost cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from these projections.  

Also, as required by Regulation G, we need to make you aware that during the presentation (technical difficulty)  

-- results P&G's momentum continues to be strong. We delivered another quarter of sales and earnings growth above our long-term objectives. Sales grew 9 percent and EPS grew 14 percent behind continued strong organic volume growth and solid operating margin performance up 50 basis points. The strength of our innovation program and the breadth of our portfolio has helped overcome both continued pressure from higher commodity prices and increased competitive spending in a number of categories.  

Diluted net earnings per share were 74 cents, up 14 percent versus a year ago, and 2 cents ahead of the consensus estimate. This was the result of better-than-expected operating margin expansion.  

The strong performance was driven by beauty care and baby and family care. Every global business unit and all regions are delivering strong top line growth. Beauty care and baby and family care are leading bottom line growth. Beauty care is investing behind numerous initiatives to sustain strong, profitable top line growth with good progress so far. Baby and family care also delivered excellent results behind strong volume growth and pricing to recover commodity-related cost increases.  

Fabric and homecare results were in line with a year ago. We continue to invest in a strong fabric and homecare initiative program, and continue geographic expansion in major markets like China and Russia. At the same time, we are absorbing the impact of escalating commodity costs and expenses related to the addition of liquid detergent capacity in North America. We expect margin pressure to persist. Commodity costs will remain at higher levels for the foreseeable future, although we clearly expect to recover them via pricing and mix over time.  

Snacks and coffee profits were down for the quarter. However, the recently announced price increase on coffee was followed by all key competitors and should largely offset higher green-coffee costs. We expect solid earnings growth for the balance of the fiscal year.  

Finally, health care was down slightly, as expected, due to a tough base period where earnings grew more than 30 percent. Recall we over-delivered last year's December quarter due to the early and severe cough-cold season. And in addition, the base period includes the launch of Crest Premium White Strips. Again, we expect solid earnings growth for the health care segment during the balance of the fiscal year.  

The portfolio of billion dollar brands is expanding volume double digits with 15 of 16 brands growing. We are continuing volume growth in 9 of our 10 top customers. All top 16 countries, accounting for about 80 percent of our sales, are growing volume at or above long-term targets. As discussed in our December analyst meeting, winning with more of the world's consumers is part of our top line growth strategy. We're making good progress against this substantial opportunity.  

In developing markets, we delivered six consecutive quarters of mid-teens or better volume growth with China continuing to set the pace. Last quarter we again grew in the high teens. Importantly, our developing market business delivered returns above the Company's average in the past three years. This is an indicator that we're executing a sustainable business model that rewards shareholders for the additional risks inherent in these markets.  

In summary, we are pleased with our results in the quarter. We continue to leverage the breadth of our portfolio. Our strong innovation program is continuing to deliver growth, even though we're going through a challenging cost and operating environment. Despite these challenges and the difficult base period comps, we delivered another quarter of results ahead of long-term objectives.  

Now let me move on to guidance. As you are aware, over the past 12 months a number of P&G's key competitors have lowered the bar with regard to earnings growth commitments in order to better compete with P&G's initiative program. So far this has not impacted our ability to deliver strong top line growth behind consumer-meaningful innovation and the strong end-market execution. However, we are not taking this success for granted. Instead we remain focused on sustaining P&G's momentum behind our initiative pipeline, which is particularly robust in the second half of the fiscal year. Foreign exchange is also expected to contribute a slightly higher rate on sales of about 2 percent.  

With these two factors together, FX and the strength of our initiative pipeline, it gives us the confidence to raise our top line growth expectation for the March quarter and the fiscal year to the high-single digits. Despite continued margin pressure from commodities, we're also raising our fiscal-year EPS guidance by 3 cents to a range of 2.61 to 2.64.  

In summary, we're encouraged by our ability to deliver earnings per share growth of 13 to 14 percent in a year that's been characterized by challenging cost and competitive environments, while restructuring, of course, is now funded internally.  

That concludes the business update. I've condensed this, of course, significantly in order to provide significant time to discuss the topic for which we have brought you together at this early hour, the transformational acquisition of the Gillette Company by Procter & Gamble. We will start by Jim giving you an update on Gillette's recent results and the rationale for their decision to approach us. Jim?  

JIM KILTS, CHAIRMAN & CEO, THE GILLETTE COMPANY: Thanks, Clayt, and good morning, everybody. It's great to be here on this historic day. I look upon this union of Gillette and Procter & Gamble as more than a great opportunity for growth and value creation for shareholders; I believe it's a unique and historic event in business, and certainly in the consumer product industry.  

There are no two consumer products companies in the world with a better alignment of brands, markets and philosophies. The combination will create the best consumer products company in the world. That's good news for consumers, for customers, for shareholders, and for employees.  

Clearly for Gillette shareholders, both the timing and the terms of the transaction are attractive. Four years ago we were an under-performing and drifting company, but we have turned the company around. We've rebuild the business, and our current share price reflects our progress. Our share price appreciated more than 20 percent last year. And the terms of our agreement provide a further premium to our investors. From a Gillette prospective our business has never been stronger, more vibrant, and better positioned for continued growth.  

While I can't talk about our full-year performance since we're still a week away from releasing our numbers, you know from our nine-month results that 2004 has been an outstanding year for Gillette. For the nine-months, sales were up 11 percent (indiscernible) income increased 26 percent. Profit from operations grew 25 percent and earnings per share rose by 27 percent. And the quality behind our numbers is unmatched.  

We had a record-setting pace for successful new product introductions for continued growth in our core categories, for trade-up growth for premium products, and for growth in developing markets. And the strength was evident across the board. Our M3 Power, the first battery-powered wet shaving system for men, met all of its targets and is well on its way to becoming a $0.5 billion brand at retail.  

In batteries, Duracell build brand equity with our very successful Trusted Everywhere advertising campaign. They also developed new revenue sources, cut costs and countered rampant price promotion. In a very tough market, Duracell achieved record profitability, more than doubling its profit of three years ago.  

In oral care, we've increased sales by 16 percent with our most aggressive product effort ever, including the CrossAction Vitalizer manual toothbrush, the Professional Care 7000 and 8000 Premium Rechargeable Toothbrushes, and the Sonic Complete, our first entry into the sonic rechargeable segment. And we entered whole new areas with our Hummingbird battery-powered flossers and Brush-Ups disposable teeth wipes.  

In personal care we've cut costs, introduced new and improved products, increased advertising, and profitably grew sales. And at Braun we've cut costs, doubled our ad spending, invested in filling out the brand portfolio, and significantly improved profitability.  

The progress across all our businesses reflects a reenergized marketing company. Our marketing commitment and effectiveness are clear in two numbers -- our advertising spending as a percent of sales has risen about 400 basis points in the past three years, while our trade and consumer promotion spending has gone down yearly 200 basis points. We are now earning market share increases and not buying them. At the same time, we grew operating margins behind a 450 basis point deduction in cost of goods.  

So when we look across the consumer products landscape, it's been pretty clear that we're performing well, but at the same time there would be clear benefits in combining Gillette with another industry leader. A combined company would provide a stronger leadership position that would make us more innovative for consumers and more responsive for our customers. We could also use our combined sales to generate synergies to create the affordability to both reinvest and generate value for our shareholders. Procter & Gamble is a home run in every one of those dimensions, from its brands and its operating performance, to the interface with customers and the terrific synergies we have ahead of us.  

There isn't a weakness in this combination. That's why we approached Procter & Gamble several months ago to explore a potential deal. After a period of discussion we couldn't agree on terms. Subsequently, Procter & Gamble reopened the dialog, and fortunately we were able to reach an agreement. Our Board obviously had to be comfortable with the value of the Procter & Gamble stock we are receiving in this deal, and I will tell you, they are and I am.  

Inherent in that value was what we bring, what Procter & Gamble brings, and what we can create by this great combination. In short, we like what we see.  

With that, I'd like to hand it back to Clayt who will get into detail on the deal and its impact. Clayt.  

CLAYT DALEY: Thanks Jim. Our respective Boards have agreed to a stock transaction with an exchange ratio of 0.975 P&G shares for each Gillette share. Concurrently, P&G will begin a share repurchase program in the range of 18 to $22 billion, to be completed over the next 12 to 18 months. When the buyback is complete, this will represent the equivalent of about a 60 percent equity, 40 percent cash deal.  

Based on yesterday's closing prices, the acquisition premium is about 18 percent, or approximately 14 times EBITDA when the cost synergies are included. This is a fair price for a stable of category-leading, global billion dollar brands with strong growth momentum. This is also comparable to multiples paid for other world-class properties such as Beiersdorf, which was acquired by Tchibo; Mondavi, which was acquired by Constellation Brands; and Gatorade, which was acquired by Pepsi through the Quaker acquisition. These are all world-class properties which justify significant acquisition premiums because they offer the acquirer significant growth and cost synergies. Gillette's razors and blades business is the crown jewel of the consumer products industry. Therefore, it is no surprise that the deal multiples fall into established ranges for top-end transactions.  

Now let's turn over to the overview of the value potential that is being created by this deal. We expect this deal to generate 14 to $16 billion of incremental shareholder value. 10 to $11 billion will come from cost synergies. Growth synergies should contribute an additional 4 to 5 billion. All other factors, such as transaction costs, option leakage, benefits from tax, CapEx and working capital efficiencies and are expected to wash out on a valuation basis.  

Probably most of you have already done the math; roughly 8.5 billion of the incremental value should accrue to the current Gillette shareholders. This is below the low-end of the range of cost synergies. 5.5 to $7.5 billion will go to P&G shareholders. This is a combination of the growth synergies, as well as the upside on the cost synergies.  

Now the key milestones to complete this transaction are as follows. The 18 to $22 billion share repurchase program starts today. We expect to mail out the proxy solicitation and S-4 Registration in mid-April. The proxy vote is tentatively scheduled for P&G and Gillette shareholder meetings in mid-May. Assuming all goes well with regulatory and governmental approvals, we would expect to close the deal in the fall.  

This provides an overview of the deal structure. A.G. will now walk you through the rationale for this deal and why it provides upside to our sustainable growth model.  

AG LAFLEY, PRESIDENT & CEO, THE PROCTER & GAMBLE COMPANY: Last December we outlined P&G's strategies for sustainable growth. We also discussed long-term goals for sales, earnings per share, and for free cash flow. Today's announcement of our intention to acquire Gillette is fully consistent with these strategies and will provide upside to our combined future growth potential.  

There are four reasons why this acquisition make sense strategically -- we're combining two of the leading consumer products companies in the world, a combination that leverages the structural characteristics of our industry; we are accelerating the evolution of P&G's portfolio toward faster-growing, higher-margin, more efficient businesses; we are strengthening already strong relationships with retail customers; we are leveraging both companies' core strengths in branding, in innovation, in global scale and a go-to-market capability to accelerate growth. So let's look at each of these benefits more closely.  

Together, Gillette and P&G can grow at levels neither company could achieve or sustain on its own. The key reason is that consumer products is in the end a scale business; scale drives margin growth and the opportunity to reinvest. The more scale a company can create and leverage, the more opportunities there are to keep growing margins and to keep reinvesting in brands and innovation. The more we can reinvest in branding and innovation that really delights consumers, the more we can grow. The more we grow, the greater the margin, the greater the scale.  

And importantly, scale is not just about size. The way we think about scale is much broader. We have industry-leading scale in our bread and depth of consumer understanding and our go-to-market capabilities with retailers in distribution, in innovation and commercialization, in marketing and investments, in research and development exchanges and in business services. All of this scale translates in the end to leadership, and this is an industry that rewards leadership. We're bringing together the two strongest leaders at a time when both companies' performance is the strongest it's been in a decade.  

Second, the addition of Gillette's brands accelerates the evolution of P&G's portfolio into faster growing, higher margins and more asset-efficient health, personal care and beauty businesses. With the exception of batteries and small appliances, all Gillette business segments fall into health, personal or beauty care, which will now represent a full 50 percent of P&G's portfolio. This combined company will have an unmatched portfolio of 21 brands with sales of $1 billion to $5 billion each. Combined, we are the market leader in categories that represent two-thirds of total company sales. We are increasing the diversification and the balance of P&G's portfolio, and the flexibility we need to deliver sustainable growth over the long-term.  

The third reason this acquisition make sense is that it enables us to strengthen our relationships with winning retail customers around the world. We will bring an even stronger innovation pipeline across a more diverse and profitable mix of categories and brands and even larger portfolio of leading brands. And we will also bring greater shopper knowledge and broader and deeper expertise in both men's and women's marketing.  

The fourth reason the acquisition makes sense is that we can leverage Gillette and P&G's core strengths; core strengths of creating and building brands, of innovation and technology, of global scale and of the way we go to market. There are many examples. One of Gillette's core strengths is its ability to trade up consumers with the premium products that perform better. Products like M3 Power and Oral-B Power Brushes. Multiplying their capability with P&G's marketing and go-to-market strengths opens significant opportunities for accelerating growth in developing and developed markets. In short, this acquisition of Gillette is a perfect fit with P&G's long-term sustainable growth strategy and the logical next step in the evolution of P&G's business portfolio.  

Now strategic fit is necessary, but not sufficient. There must also be opportunities to create additional consumer and additional shareholder value over long-term, more value and than either company could create on its own. The Gillette acquisition passes this test and provides considerable upside to P&G's sustainable growth model.  

Recall, this is how we get to our long-term 4 to 6 percent sales growth target. The combination of P&G and Gillette creates upside in virtually every element of the top line model. First we will benefit from Gillette's portfolio, which is more concentrated in faster-growing markets such as razors and blades, oral care and personal care. Going forward, market growth should contribute 3 percent to the combined businesses versus only a bit more than 2 percent for P&G alone today.  

We will also be even better positioned to deliver additional organic growth from innovation in technology, which drives share growth, new business creation, and enables geographic white space expansion. Both P&G and Gillette have an outstanding track record of innovation leadership. P&G has generated roughly $5 billion in retail sales in categories we did not even play in just four years ago. Gillette has created almost $5 billion in new retail sales from products launched over the past five years. In fact, together P&G and Gillette brought to market half of the most successful consumer branded product initiatives for the past three years.  

What's important here is that our innovative capabilities, our consumer knowledge, and our go-to-market strengths are complementary. On one hand we can connect and develop across common innovation and technology areas in oral care and personal care. This will enable us to continue setting the pace of innovation in core Gillette and P&G businesses. At the same time we can leverage complementary consumer understanding. P&G knows a fair amount about women, how to innovate for them, and market to them. Gillette's expertise is in innovation in marketing to men. It's simple, but we believe potent, combination.  

I will give you just one example -- women's hair removal. Today it's a $10 billion market, projected to grow at 8 percent annually over the next five years. Today there are consumers who are not fully satisfied with current solutions. We believe we can combine Gillette and P&G technology with Gillette and P&G expertise in marketing. We believe we will be able to market to women and leverage strong Gillette and P&G brands to deliver this continuous innovation that will truly delight women. In addition, we can leverage P&G's strong customer business development approach with Gillette's outstanding execution at store level. Along with P&G's leadership presence in key developing markets, we can expand innovation in areas like hair removal faster than Gillette could accomplish on its own.  

Developing markets are a significant opportunity with market growth projected at 5 to 6 percent over the next five years. We believe we can help Gillette brands take fuller advantage of this growth by achieving deeper market penetration in critical markets like China and Russia, Mexico and Turkey. Over the past decade we have built a strong market position in a number of these fast-growing, developing markets. Our go-to-market capabilities are reasonably well developed and our scale in developing markets is about five times that of Gillette today.  

Equally important, we have been successfully expand our brand portfolio to better serve lower-income consumers. Our growing expertise in low-cost, low-capital innovation and our down-the-trade customer penetration can also enable Gillette brands to profitably serve more of the world's consumers.  

In summary, P&G and Gillette have been delivering at the top end of their organic growth targets over the past three years, and we're confident that by combining these two industry-leading companies we can create even more upside potential for top line growth.  

There's also considerable upside to the bottom line. Both P&G and Gillette have robust stand-alone margin expansion plans currently in place. We can apply P&G's global scale to Gillette's current cost structure in many areas, including purchasing and the way we go to market together. We have identified substantial costs and growth synergies, which Clayt will take you through in a moment. It's clear that this should generate substantial and sustainable margin and earnings improvements.  

Importantly, both companies have a track record and strong credibility to deliver productivity improvement. We're confident that the combined companies can deliver further margin gains based on identified synergy opportunities and additional scale leverage.  

In summary, we remain confident that P&G can sustain growth at our target levels, the ones we've committed to without the acquisition of Gillette. But with the acquisition of Gillette our sustainable growth model becomes even stronger for the longer term. We will have an even stronger portfolio, a more attractive industry, greater opportunities to set the pace of innovation, and we will have the ability to get more out of Gillette's strong innovation program by leveraging P&G's go-to-market capabilities around the world.  

As a result, we are increasing our long-term sales target by 1 full percentage point from 4 to 6 to 5 to 7 percent. Based on the synergy plan, we expect that the combined entity will generate 24 to 25 percent operating margins by the end of this decade versus the 19 to 20 percent P&G delivers today. This should provide P&G shareholders with additional upside to our double-digit earnings per share growth target.  

In short, this acquisition make sense; it makes sense strategically, financially and operationally. It's a unique opportunity to make two industry leaders even stronger and even better positioned for sustained long-term growth.  

Now I'm going to hand the presentation back to Clayt.  

CLAYT DALEY: Thanks A.G. Here are the building blocks of how this transaction generates the 14 to $16 billion of incremental shareholder value. As I said before, we expect 10 to $11 billion to come from cost synergies. Growth synergies should contribute an additional 4 to 5 billion. So let me first turn to the plans on cost synergies.  

We anticipate more than $1 billion of synergies to be achieved by year three. We see opportunities in purchasing, manufacturing and logistics, through increased scale, improved asset utilization and coordinated procurement. We see opportunities to substantially reduce our combined administrative costs. We aim to achieve this through elimination of SG&A overlap between the two companies, the delivery of key support functions through P&G's Global Business Services Group, which delivers best in class cost, and integration of Gillette's brands with minimal additional staff in corporate, market development, and global business service organizations.  

As a result we anticipate a reduction of about 6000 positions, and this is roughly 4 percent of the combined enrollment of the two companies of 140,000 employees. Of course we are committed to fielding the best team. Gillette's current management will have an equal opportunity in the new company, and we expect a certain amount of the headcount reduction to come from the P&G side.  

Finally, we see economies of scale in retail selling and marketing, including media buying. Savings in material purchasing, media buying, and business support activities are expected to be realized fairly quickly after the closing. Synergies in other areas will take a little longer.  

Now to put the cost synergies in perspective, we've analyzed then versus our Tambrands, Clairol and Wella commitment. As you can see, relative to the actual Tambrands and Clairol synergies and the projected Wella synergies, the Gillette estimates are clearly reasonable. Importantly, on Tambrands and Clairol, we delivered the synergies ahead of schedule. The Wella synergies are on track and we are confident the synergies we've identified for Gillette are doable.  

Second, we anticipate to create 4 to 5 billion of value through the 1 point acceleration of top line sales growth. A.G. already talked you through this and the key drivers which provide the growth upside. The biggest contribution will come from leveraging our developing market infrastructure to capture more value from Gillette's brands and innovation programs in those geographies.  

Now onto the deals impact on P&G's earnings per share progression. The deal is expected to be a creative in year three and is only slightly dilutive in year two, including a significant amount of non-cash charges. Year one dilution is accentuated by onetime impacts, and the fact that many synergies are tied to systems integration, which will take some investment and some time to complete. As you can see, we have acquired about 50 cents in earnings per share, which are expected to grow at a double-digit rate. The dilution impact from the share exchange is partially offset by the announced share repurchase program. The outlined growth and cost synergies are building up over a three-year period. The dilution from net new intangibles amortization is expected to be 5 to 7 cents a share. And finally, the onetime impacts include non-qualifying acquisition costs, among other items. We have provided for restructuring costs on the P&G side because as I mentioned earlier, it is our objective to field the best team from the combined P&G and Gillette talent pool.  

Now let's walk briefly through the valuation. As I mentioned at the beginning, we are paying an 18 percent premium on the agreed basis of share exchange. It provides Gillette's shareholders with a post-deal valuation of about $54 per share, based on yesterday's closing price. This represents a full but fair price for this world-class property.  

In terms of value creation, the premiums to the Gillette shareholders is more than justified by the low-end of the cost synergy range. P&G shareholders will capture the growth opportunities provided by the deal, as well as the potential upside to the cost synergies. This translates to about 5.5 to $7.5 billion.  

Now let me hand it back to A.G. and Jim, who will talk about the integration and wrap up the presentation.  

AG LAFLEY: We're confident we can manage the integration of the two companies, while staying sharply focused on the health of both Gillette and P&G's established businesses. There are three reasons for this confidence.  

First, we have complementary organization structures and SAP systems which are designed to enable fast and efficient integration of new businesses with minimal disruption. Secondly, both companies are coming from positions of strength, with healthy business momentum and strong cash flow. Third, we have a strong cadre of leaders running these operating businesses. We've done it before, and the combined Gillette and P&G leadership team is committed to do it again.  

Jim will lead this integration for us, and here are a few more thoughts from him. Jim?  

JIM KILTS: Thanks. A.G. When we started to evaluate this combination we saw many obvious synergies. At the core they are driven by having two companies with infrastructures that overlap, and products and geographies that are complementary. The level of synergies that Clayt detailed are ones that I that we know we can get. In the process we will make the business even more capable of driving growth, and I am committed to working with A.G. to do just that.  

If you'll look at the level of synergies, they're big. At the same time, they are very reasonable. The cost synergies are consistent with levels that Procter & Gamble has obtained in the past. There also synergies that I know how to get.  

We will utilize both internal and external resources to identify the specific opportunities. We will set specific targets for each area of opportunity. We will establish teams to pursue these targets. I will oversee the entire process, along with other senior managers at Gillette and Procter & Gamble. We will reach these targets and accelerate our growth.  

On the revenue side, we will create new benefits and better value for our consumers, and make it easier for our customers to deal with us and to make our company even more important to them in building their business. These revenue improvements are going to happen. To achieve these results, I have agreed to stay on for at least a year to work with the new company and lead integration efforts.  

And just in case I haven't convinced you that I'm a believer, and I have also agreed to roll over all of my Gillette options and shares into Procter & Gamble stock and hold it for at least two years.  

And this is what Gillette's largest investor thinks of the deal.  

WARREN BUFFET, CHAIRMAN, BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY: I'm Warren Buffett. I'm Chairman of Berkshire Hathaway. And back in 1989, Berkshire bought what's now the equivalent of 96 million shares of Gillette. During that entire period, we've never bought or sold a share. I've been happy with the investment, but I have to tell you I'm a lot happier today. This merger is going to create the greatest consumer product company in the world, a company with a market cap close to 200 billion, combining two companies that already had outstanding records, outstanding managements, outstanding products. It's a green deal. And to quantify that description, I intend and will purchase enough shares of either Procter & Gamble or of Gillette so that by the time the deal ends or is made we will have 100 million shares of Procter & Gamble stock. That makes the math a little easier, but that's not the reason I'm doing it. I'm doing it because I like this deal.  

AG LAFLEY: The key point you should take away from all of this is that P&G's acquisition of Gillette make sense for our consumers, make sense for our retail customer, makes sense for our employees, and it makes sense for shareholders. It is a unique opportunity that we're in a strong position to capture and leverage. I'm confident P&G is well placed to execute this acquisition with excellence and deliver the consistent reliable sustained growth shareholders expect and deserve. Now we would be happy to take any of your questions.  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: Two questions. First is just on the accelerated growth. I understand the cost synergies as being pretty straightforward, but on the topline synergies, Gillette obviously thought those were going to happen with Duracell, and I think they didn't. This is a very different deal, and there were some specific issues with Duracell.  

But can you talk a little bit more about what drives the acceleration in the topline growth? Because the numbers are substantially higher than either Gillette's or P&G's numbers along.  

And my second question, A.G., is really on the GBU structure. My understanding was that the deals you have done so far, you have sort of plopped into your existing GBU structure. Are you going to create a new GBU for Gillette? Are you going to create three new GBU's for all of Gillette's businesses? Can you talk a little bit about that?  

AG LAFLEY: Okay. First one first, and Jim should join in here, because we have talked an awful lot about how we drive growth. This obviously isn't worth doing, just to get the cost efficiencies and additional productivity. The simple way to think about it is we need to add 1 point of growth. If you project a growth rate to the end of the decade, this company will be about $75 billion in size. We need another $750 million a year. Okay?  

We believe at least half of that is going to come from developing markets by simply plugging in and playing -- with broader distribution, deeper penetration -- the Gillette brands that will be combined with the P&G brands. And we think that is pretty doggone conservative, if you look at the growth rates in those markets and you look at where we are in terms of distribution and penetration today in places like China, Central and Eastern Europe, Mexico, Turkey, et cetera.  

The second chunk comes from combining two -- at least in our industry -- world-class go-to-market organizations. We both run with our top retail customers around the world on what we call customer business development teams; they are multifunctional teams. Gillette has a fantastic in-store presence and retail capability; nobody in the world gets more in-store, point-of-purchase displays than Gillette. And we are pretty sure, as we look at the opportunities just in the top 10 customers, that together we are going to grow faster. And that last piece is, what do we do with the brands and the technologies that we have together? And the three areas that we are going to be poking around pretty fast are oral care, which is a relative no-brainer. They are world class and leaders. And on the brush side, we are contenders, certainly, on the dentifrice side. And there are lots of opportunities to work together on the innovation that we have in hand and the technologies we have in hand. And there are an awful lot of opportunities for us to go to market and build these brands and build consumption and market share in this area.  

The other two opportunities -- we talked a bit about women's hair removal. Gillette is off to a terrific start with Venus. I think, as you know, women's hair removal is about shaving, but it's also about a lot more. And again, we have got technologies on both sides that we think can get after this $10 billion market, and there's really nobody else that is single-mindedly focused on it.  

The last piece is Gillette's nail, grooming and personal care brand. In their portfolio, understandably, given the other priorities, it maybe has not had the full attention and the full parity. Frankly, it was that way at P&G five or six years ago. We have learned a lot about personal care; we have learned a lot about beauty care. We have a lot of technology in market and we have a lot of technology in the cupboard, and we think we'll be able to create a leading men's cursor personal care brand in the world. That's where the growth synergies are going to come from.  

On your second question, Amy, we have an organization structure right now that we can basically plug in and play. But Jim and I and his leadership team and my leadership team have obviously got to sit down together and figure out what is the right way to get organized. But I will say this -- some of the Gillette businesses are obviously going to be freestanding businesses, obviously. They are different industries. Gillette is the leader in the industry. It would make absolutely no sense for us to change any of that.  

On the back-room side, because we are both on SAP, because there are tremendous commonalities in what we do -- our supply bases are similar, our retail customer bases are virtually identical -- there's a tremendous opportunity for merging and synergies. And then we'll sort through the corporate staff. And we have got a lot of work to do in the next six to nine months while the deal closes. But, as Jim said, there are a lot of opportunities for cost synergy, and there are an awful lot of opportunities to improve productivity together.  

JIM KILTS: I guess I'll give my example, just to add to that, when I made the calls to my business unit heads last night, told him about what was happening, there was excitement because the one comment from one of our business units heads -- this opens a hold new world of opportunity. Can you imagine what we can do in markets like China and Eastern Europe we are already doing well in, and what we can do on top of that, with the combination of the two companies.  

From an organization standpoint, I think it's pretty easy. As A.G. said, there's some freestanding things. We are going to enlist the management teams, get them together. But we've got a clear vision of how it's going to come together, but we don't want to get in front of our organizations. We want them to participate in how we are thinking about it, and clearly we will let you know. But the organizational issue, I think, is a very easy issue, and one that we can get done fairly quickly.  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: Two questions. First one is, when you were looking at Gillette before this acceleration of the 1 point you are talking about, what did you view as Gillette's sustainable long-term growth rate? Because Gillette has been executing great cost savings programs and growing strong in markets like Russia and Turkey. That's the first question, in terms of the standalone, sustainable growth rate.  

And the second question is any need for divesting in any areas of overlap, be it deodorants or a toothbrush in certain markets that you see a need for?  

AG LAFLEY: Jim, why don't you take the first question, and I'll take the second question?  

JIM KILTS: Well, sustainable growth, we have always said at Gillette is 3 to 5 percent, on a constant-dollar basis. And with opportunities and -- when we did better than that, a couple people said, you said 3 to 5 percent. And I said, well, we like to give what I call peace dividends. When things go well, we give more. And things have been going very well. We've got terrific momentum. And I said, if we get great new products, we'll do even better. And we've got the portfolio of great new products coming down the line. So I'm very optimistic; but 3 to 5 is what we've said publicly. When we finish the deal, A.G. will be able to make his judgments on what he wants to say to you. But still, as part of Gillette, we want to stick with the 3 to 5 right now.  

AG LAFLEY: And still, we are comparable to 5 to 7 going forward. I mean, if you just look at the slightly -- 1 additional point of market growth that you get, given the mix of industries that Gillette is in, and if you look at our migration over time into more health, personal care and beauty care, with higher growth rates in those industries, frankly, you can pick up the full point on market growth alone.  

On your second question, there are some overlaps, a few. There are some issues. We have worked with the DOJ or FTC -- whichever regulatory agency will review this combination -- a number of times, just in the last seven years or so, with the acquisition of Tambrands, with Clairol, with Wella, et cetera. They are relatively modest, frankly, for a transaction of this size, and we will work through it. We will work through it with them. We are confident that we are going to retain as many of the assets as possible.  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: Two questions. First, does the scale you are creating now with this combination true you up to take a harder look at some of your slower growth businesses in your portfolios for potential disposals or alternatives (ph)?  

AG LAFLEY: That was directed at me, Jim.  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: Not just batteries, A.G..  

AG LAFLEY: I said, I think that was directed at me.  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: And secondly, a softer question -- you are both credited for really keeping your two organizations focused on growth. What are you doing incrementally, today forward, to keep that focus going in the combined companies?  

AG LAFLEY: Okay. We will both take a stab at -- I guess we'll both comment on the slower-growth businesses, and then we'll both comment on the other one. We are always looking at our businesses to see how they perform versus our operating TSR, cash flow ROI metrics, and each one has goals. We set the goals versus the best-in-class performance in the industry in which they are in, and we set the goals versus sort of what is required to stay on the P&G team for the long term. And I think you have seen us, over the last several years, exit the cooking and oils business, exit the peanut butter business, exit the low end of the household cleaners business, exit the juice drinks business. And we did that because the growth wasn't there. So we are obviously -- that's an ongoing process. So you have to weed the garden every spring, and we don't wait for the spring; it's a continuous look. There will be some changes over the next five years. I can't tell you, exactly, which ones there will be.  

Jim, you may want to comment on the battery business. You know more about it than I do.  

JIM KILTS: The battery business is a tough business, as I've said for many years, but it's a business I like. It's not too many categories that have unit growth in the 4, 4.5 percent range, and it comes year after year. We have got market shares of the two top companies in the 70 percent range. Margins are aiming into the 20s now. Amy used to ask me, what can the margins be in batteries? And I said, well, 15. And I think we are up into the 20s now. So we have done a pretty good job on the business. We've got a terrific management team. It's a growth business. We can expand internationally and continue to grow it. We've entered the China market with the leading alkaline battery, and it's mostly a zinc market. So you are going to get conversion from zinc to alkaline in that market, and I think the infrastructure that we are going to get in the combination of the companies is going to open up a lot of opportunities for us. But I've been a big believer that at Gillette, our portfolio is terrific. I was very comfortable with it. A.G. is going to look at it as part of the Procter & Gamble combination with Gillette.  

AG LAFLEY: Ann, you had a second question. And it was?  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: Incrementally, from here forward, what will you both do to keep both organizations focused?  

AG LAFLEY: To keep the focus on the growth. Okay, I think this is sometimes hard to understand. But our structure is, I think, ideally suited for our industry, with global business units, which in effect Gillette has and which P&G has had for, now, five years. Each one of those global businesses is very focused on their industry. They are spending 110 percent of their time and energy and commitment to become leaders in those industries and to generate as much growth as they possibly can over the mid and long term in those industries.  

So, if you think about this combination, there is really very little distraction to the operating businesses. There are only a couple of businesses where there's some commonality. In oral care, we are going to have to think about how we put a great brush business together with a great dentifrice business. We'll have to sort through how are we going to manage personal care, but most of our GBUs are still going to be single-mindedly focused on becoming the leader in their industries. And I think that really helps.  

JIM KILTS: I couldn't agree more. The marketing teams are going to stay focused. Blades and razors teams are going to worry about their innovation and driving their innovation. And the way we are structured, you really think of it, across one side of the matrix is the business units. They are focused on their businesses. Then we have infrastructure that supports the business units, and a lot of the activity and the savings that we are looking for will come across that infrastructure. And we know how to go about that, because we are organized very similarly.  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: I just wanted to go into the cost savings for a second. The 1 billion to 1 billion 2, 10 to 12 percent of Gillette's sales compares to your old -- to your previous acquisitions, although I should point out that you, A.G., have come out of a pretty successful five-year construction (ph) program and are much leaner than you were. And Jim obviously has done a great job, as well, at cutting overhead at Gillette. How comfortable are you that you will be able to get that 1 billion to 1 billion 2 over the next few years?  

AG LAFLEY: I am very comfortable with it, very comfortable with it. There are three -- there's obviously going to be a lot of duplication in what the two companies do at corporate, and we're going to sort through that with the leaders. We are finding there's tremendous efficiency and productivity in what we call our global business shared services operation. I think we were one of the first companies in our industry, if not the first, to move to that structure five years ago. We then have enhanced the structure with the network partnerships with the likes of Hewlett-Packard and IBM, and we are already, as we have reported before, running ahead of our cost savings goals, ahead of our service quality levels, and we are turning out more and more innovation on the IT side. So we've got a very robust, worldwide back-room operation.  

We have also been able to integrate the -- each acquisition, we've been able to integrate faster because, as long as they are on SAP, even if it's regional SAP versus the global SAP we are on, we can move very quickly. So that's a big advantage.  

And I think the third piece is we both have very strong operations that work with customers and that work in the countries, and we are going to take a really hard look at that. And I think the focus there will be on productivity. I think there are tremendous opportunities for productivity. Jim?  

JIM KILTS: I couldn't agree more. I think, as I look at the synergies, you can imagine when we were looking at the synergies together, negotiating price -- I'm even more bullish than he is. But I think these are very reasonable numbers, and if we get those numbers, it will be a great acquisition. My job is to make it even better, working with A.G. and his team.  

AG LAFLEY: If you think about what Clay said, the low end of the -- actually, below the low end of the cost synergies side is sort of the minimums. And we think we've had a track record at Gillette, and we've had a track record at P&G that commitments are commitments, and then we try to beat them. And I think that's true for the cost synergies, and I think you'll see that that's true for the growth synergies.  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: Jim, a quick question. I guess the question I have is sort of why -- particularly, why you approached Procter & Gamble in this regard. I may be more bullish than most, but I can come up with a scenario where your stock is at $54 in not that long a period of time. So can you walk us through the rationale (multiple speakers)?  

JIM KILTS: I think the rationale is really easy for me. Strength plus strength equals success. Both companies have come through turnaround periods, we have got great momentum. And the infrastructure combination that we can create is going to leverage our revenue scale and our cost scale as a combined company and provide a lot of opportunities for employees as we go ahead. I am a great believer in scale. I firmly believe the consumer products industry needs to consolidate, and I'd rather lead that consolidation for the long-term health of our employees, our brands and our business then get stuck with the leftovers at the end. So I want to lead it and do it with the best company in the world, Procter & Gamble, the company I was looking at as my only competitor to be the best consumer products company in the world. By coming together, we created the best consumer products company in the world. That's why.  

AG LAFLEY: I have just a quick footnote on that. Scale is not just about cost. It's not just about purchasing power or bargaining leverage. In fact, the most important thing about scale is it creates the ability to reinvest. And that has been Gillette's model, and that has been P&G's model, and when the companies are running well, that scale creates higher margins. Part of the margin is reinvested in the innovation.  

So, if you are an innovation and technology company in our industry, which both of us are, if you can generate more scale to enable the reinvestment, we keep reinvesting and creating and building brands that create bonds with consumers for life. And we keep reinvesting in innovation so we stay in the lead on the innovation side to delight (ph) the consumers we serve.  

JIM KILTS: I think that just says what it's all about. Our operating philosophies at these companies are the same. We believe that we can bring these things together and build a juggernaut.  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: A question for both A.G. and for Jim. Could you detail a little more some of the opportunities in emerging markets for lower-end systems and disposables? What type of scale advantage and distribution there does P&G bring Gillette, and is there a price point that is enabled by it?  

AG LAFLEY: The answer is yes. What what I would like to do is spend about 20 minutes talking about this at some analyst presentation, because that's where I think we have got huge opportunities. We have come up and filled out our portfolio with lower-price systems entries to trade developing countries' consumers up from double-edge. We have got a nice ladder of products. But what we get with the combination of the two companies is an infrastructure that allows us, instead of worrying about infrastructure in these companies -- Procter & Gamble has got the best infrastructure already. They've got the scale, and we have got terrific growth prospects with great margins. But we didn't have the scale in these businesses. We put our infrastructure into their infrastructure, and all of a sudden we are touching distribution, focused on growing the business instead of worrying about trying to create an infrastructure. We are going to just step up the growth we have got in developing companies. Right now, we are growing about 18 percent in our developing countries. I can't tell you how optimistic I am about the growth we have got ahead of us. So I think that you have hit the strategy right on the head. And I've got to tell you -- I talked to Peter Hoffman, who runs our blade and razor business, last night. And he was just pumped up, because I've been after him -- how are we going to get the developing companies going? We can only do so much; we only have so much infrastructure. If we do this right, we are going to be able to accelerate the terrific growth we have already, and I intend to do it right.  

AG LAFLEY: Just one very simple comment here. We went into China on August 8, 1988. And without going into the details, our distribution, breadth and depth and our penetration in China is second to none in one of the two fastest-growing developing markets in the world, and likely eventually the second and maybe the first largest economy in the world.  

Same thing happened in Central and Eastern Europe, when the wall came down in Berlin. We were first in, and again we have deeper and broader retail distribution and penetration. And it's just an incredible opportunity to take these Gillette brands, which are in those markets and doing well, and enable consumers to afford them and try them and be delighted by them, in two of the fastest growing developing areas in the world. John?  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: A.G., P&G obviously does many things very, very well. But one of them -- and I'm not worried about the cost synergies, but the revenue synergies have been fairly dubious in the last handful of acquisitions, with the exception of IAMS. So you can go back as far as Maxell and think you have sort of fallen short on the revenue synergies. So why is it different this time, as opposed to the numerous other deals that we've seen?  

AG LAFLEY: World-class assets with growth momentum right now. Leading brands, leading innovators. If you think about it -- here is the simple way I think about it. We actually got cosmetics and fine fragrances growing. It took us too long. And now we're actually doing quite well. With Wella, we are the leading -- believe it or not -- fine fragrance company in the world. So that one just took too long. The same with Tampax. I wish we had had Tampax Pearl three years ago -- that's when we should have had it. Clairol -- I think it's quite clear the cupboard was bare, and the innovation program had been milked. So basically, we bought brands that are shelf (ph), and we will now bring technology there because, over the long term, we want to be in that business. Actually, the Herbal Essences brand, which we brought, which is struggling a bit in the US, is doing phenomenally well overseas. And we didn't even factor that in initially to the acquisition economics.  

Wella, we'll see fragrances off to a good start. Hair salons -- we have got to learn the business, frankly, watch them grow the business. This one is a relative no-brainer, because you have got big, leading brands, innovation leaders, and they already have tremendous growth momentum. So all we are going to do is try to help them grow a little bit faster.  

JIM KILTS: We have got growth momentum and very full portfolios of innovation that we can build on in the future, so we are loaded up right now. The biggest issue I had at Gillette was figuring out how to sequence my innovations. That is still going to be the issue, but with the power of this infrastructure together, the upside is tremendous.  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: Back to the question on geographic strength -- could you talk a little bit about what the new breakdown of sales is going to be between emerging markets and developed markets? And in terms of geographic whitespace, are there countries where Gillette has strength to give to P&G and vice versa?  

AG LAFLEY: The second one, is for sure. Gillette will help us in India, Gillette will help us in Brazil, Gillette will help us in other markets that Jim will fill in that are not on the top of my head.  

JIM KILTS: And we've got the other way -- Japan and China.  

AG LAFLEY: Yes, and we will obviously help in Japan and China. And I think we are both reasonably strong in Central and Eastern Europe and Turkey. And we are pretty strong in Mexico, so I think that's pretty complementary. I'm sorry, Connie, and the other question was?  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: Does anybody have the geographic breakdown now of (multiple speakers) --?  

AG LAFLEY: Yes. I think -- isn't it, what, about 28 percent?  

JIM KILTS: I think we've got it -- we break up the geographies a little different. Somebody did the numbers, so I don't want to give it to you off our head. We just define developing markets a little differently. So somebody, I'm sure, in investor relations can give it to you.  

AG LAFLEY: And I think the simple way to think about it is we are sort of low 20s now, and without Gillette, we thought we would be 26 to 30 by the end of the decade, which is sort of the numbers we talked about at the December conference. And with Gillette, that should accelerate.  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: And one final question -- does this take a little pressure off of the shaving (ph) business to always have the next new product ready to go in two years, or --?  

JIM KILTS: You see this great shave I've got? I've got the next new product already. I mean, I'm ready.  

AG LAFLEY: You can never take the pressure off innovation leadership. In Gillette's businesses and our businesses, one of the reasons why two-thirds of the brands are leaders in their industries is because they are innovation leaders. So, now, we put the pressure on ourselves, and our best competitors put the pressure on us. This is an innovation -- innovation is the lifeblood in this industry. That is what keeps fueling the brand.  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: A question for A.G. Looking specifically at the Wella integration right now, I know you have pushed off the cost savings towards the back end of the three-year program. Now that the deal will probably close in the fall, are you going to try and step that up ahead of time?  

AG LAFLEY: Believe me, we did not push off the cost savings. We had a few legal challenges and other challenges in the first year.  

I think, as you know, the domination agreement was filed, and we essentially closed the first stage of the transaction in June. We actually began the real integration in July of last year. We will complete the integration on the retail hair care side by the spring of this year. So that's a total fold-in. We decided to run -- the two fastest-growing fine fragrance businesses and best-performing fine fragrance businesses happen to be Wella's and P&G's. We are merging them, so we keep the best of both. And then, frankly, we're learning and will invest when appropriate in the hair salon business, where Wella's number two in the world to Loreal.  

In terms of the cost savings, we're still holding ourselves to the commitment by the end of year three. What has happened, obviously, was the first year of legal and other issues -- that's what delayed the cost savings. We are not holding back; as soon as we could operate, we were in there operating and we were in there trying to drive the cost synergies.  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: I have two questions for Clayton. Clayton, first one -- this morning, S&P put your ratings under review for a downgrade of no more than one notch. How comfortable are you that you'll be able to convince them to maintain your AA minus rating?  

And then, secondly, aside from cash on hand and very strong cash flow, how do you plan to finance the share repurchase program?  

CLAYT DALEY: We met with both S&P and Moody's this week, and basically shared with them our initial projections, very initial, on cash flow and ratios. And therefore, these announcements are totally expected. What we will be doing in the next couple of weeks is getting into that with them in much more detail, and then they will have to make their own judgments, of course, as to what ratings they will assign to our debt in the short term, because the ratios do come back in AA line in about two years. So the real question at the end of the day is whether they will look through that, or whether they will choose to downgrade us. And that's, of course, their call.  

From a financing standpoint, this company obviously has plenty of financing capacity to initiate the share repurchase program that we discussed today. And so we'll be financing our business as we always have, with a blend of short-term debt and then various maturities of long-term debt, to keep our debt portfolio in balance. And the dilution numbers that I shared earlier, of course, do project that interest rates will go up over a period of years. And that's already baked into those numbers.  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: I was wondering if you could talk about how important is integration and, I guess, idea sharing in the R&D and marketing side, toward getting your revenue synergies? And how do you foster that? Or should we think of developing market synergies for Gillette as (indiscernible) sort of the lion's share of the revenue synergies?  

AG LAFLEY: I think you have to divide them into two pieces, and the developing market and putting our customer business development and country operating organizations together. Those are pretty much take what you have, plug them into the infrastructure, as Jim said, and play stronger.  

In the areas of oral care, personal care, women's hair removal -- of course it, it's going to require a lot of collaboration, a lot of what we call connect and develop. The thing I feel great about is we worked real hard over the last five years to change the culture at P&G in the R&D communities. Oversimplified, 10 years ago, P&G was an invent-from-within company -- strong R&D, but we invented for ourselves.  

What we have tried to do over the last five years is become much more of a connect and develop, to accelerate innovation. It's not about the headcount side; we've actually increased -- maintained the headcount. It's about getting more innovation productivity, commercializing more of your innovation from the same group of scientists and researchers. And I think it's pretty clear we'll work with anybody. Virtually all of our drugs are partnered. We are working with at least two or three direct competitors -- not in the areas where we compete, but we work with Unicharm in Japan; we compete like crazy with them in the disposable paper businesses. We work together with them on certain technologies, one of which we used in Swiffer -- one of ours which they are using in their homecare products. We compete with Clorox. On the other hand, if you saw the New York Times article, the flex wraps and the flex bags, those are our inventions, our patents. We take -- what is it, Clay, 20 percent? We take a 20 percent minority share of the joint venture. We have 50/50 joint ventures in Italy and Spain in disposable paper. We compete with the other party in some businesses, but we ally with them. It's all about innovation. It's all about innovation, because you can never have enough innovation.  

So I'm very hopeful. Gillette has got a very collaborative culture, as I understand, and I think Jim has encouraged that. And I am very hopeful that -- I think everybody is excited to get to get together and compare ideas. And that will happen on the marketing side, too.  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: Many of the global food behemoths that have consolidated over the last few years have found that increased scope and scale have not produced the leverage with retailers that they had hoped. And I am wondering what your thoughts are about how you are going to do that from this merger.  

AG LAFLEY: Fundamentally, you have to ask yourself whether you are inherently a commodity business or inherently an innovation business. And I hope you have seen at Gillette -- I think we've seen and Jim has helped create an innovation engine that creates brands that are well-differentiated and command premium value. We have tried to do the same. Set it's just a different business model. I think the food business model is different. And if you just look at how private labels have developed over the last 25 years, private-label penetration in virtually every major market is much higher, much higher in the food businesses than it is in the personal care, healthcare, beauty care and even household businesses.  

Lastly, one of the reasons why we have been migrating from sort of 30 percent plus of P&G's business in household and food to half of our business in health, personal care and beauty care is because we like the structural attractiveness of health, personal care and beauty care. And one of the drivers of those industries is innovation.  

So I think it's fundamentally innovation -- are you driven by innovation, or do you become more like a commodity over time?  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: I guess I understand how in the future there is this convergence going on between personal care and healthcare. But I guess, when I think of personal care and healthcare, I think of them as separate things. So I wonder if this is a subtle strategy change for you, long-term? And what does this mean for your drug business? And will that still be very important as this convergence continues, or is it going to be minimalized within your (multiple speakers)?  

AG LAFLEY: Well, you have to remember, our entire pharmaceutical business is 2 plus billion, in a company of 55 plus billion. So it's a business that we made an investment in. We have the leader in its segment in Acocol (ph). We have in the number-two brand, growing fast, in Actonel. But it has clearly been a development business for P&G.  

Second point -- I've talked several times about the way we think about healthcare. We don't think about healthcare as just regulated drugs, so we don't just think about it as pharmaceutical drugs or even over-the-counter drugs. We think about what we call consumer healthcare, which is unregulated. Thermocare is probably the best example of that.  

And the last thing I will say is if you talk to consumers, especially women, there is clearly an overlap and a merging going on between beauty care, personal care and healthcare.  

The last thing I want to say -- I am really looking forward to working with Jim. We are both committed to leading or beating the commitments that we made to you today, and we are both looking forward with real excitement to putting these two world-class leadership teams together and world-class brands together, and the sky's the limit.  

JIM KILTS: It's great to be part of the best consumer products company in the world.  

[CCBN reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES CCBN ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. ]  

   CO
glluk : The Gillette Company | prgml : The Procter & Gamble Company
   IN
i25 : Chemicals | i258 : Cosmetics/Toiletries | i2583 : Skin Care Products | icnp : Consumer Products | ipcare : Personal Care Products/Appliances
   NS
ntra : Transcript | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
FDCH e-Media
   AN
Document FNDW000020050211e11s000gp
  


 HD
 Q1  2005  Procter  & Gamble Company Earnings Conference Call - Final  
   WC
13,195 words
   PD
27 October 2004
   SN
FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
(c) Copyright 2004 CCBN and FDCH e-Media.  

   LP
OPERATOR: Good day everyone and welcome to the Procter & Gamble first quarter earnings release conference call. Just a reminder, today's call is being recorded. The rebroadcast, reproduction or retransmission of this conference call in whole or in part is strictly prohibited without the prior written consent of the Procter & Gamble Company. At this time for opening remarks, I would like to turn the call over to the Chief Financial Officer, Mr. Clayt Daley.  

   TD
CLAYT DALEY, CFO, PROCTER & GAMBLE: Thank you. Good morning and welcome to Procter & Gamble's September quarter conference call. A.G. Lafley, our CEO and John Goodwin, our Treasurer, join me this morning. I will begin the call with a summary of our first quarter results, John will cover our business results for the quarter by segment and then I will wrap up with our expectations for the December quarter and provide an update on the outlook for the fiscal year. A.G. will join the call for the Q&A, and as always, following the call, John Goodwin, Thomas Tipple and I will be available to provide additional perspective as needed. Now onto the results.  

We began fiscal year 2005 with a strong first quarter, despite a challenging base period comparison. The strength of our innovation programs and the breadth of our portfolio has helped us overcome both increased pressure from higher commodity prices and escalating competitive discounting and trade promotion activity in a number of categories. Diluted net earnings per share were 73 cents, up 16 percent versus the prior year and 1 cent ahead of the consensus estimate. As expected, the gain on the juice divestiture added 2 cents to the September quarter versus the year-ago period. Excluding the juice gain, diluted net earnings per share were up 13 percent versus year ago.  

Total sales increased 13 percent. Organic sales growth, which excludes the impact of foreign exchange as well as acquisitions and divestitures, came in at 6 percent. Total shipment volume increased 12 percent and organic volume grew a strong 8 percent. The growth was led by beauty care, up 25 percent including acquisitions and 10 percent on an organic basis and fabric and Homecare also grew double-digits, up 11 percent, including 1 percent from acquisition.  

All regions, including North America and western Europe, delivered solid volume growth. Developing markets continued to accelerate with volume growth over 20 percent, significantly outpacing market worth. All developing regions grew volume double-digits, led by continued strong growth across Asia and central and eastern Europe. As expected, the rapid growth in developing markets was the primary driver of negative mix, which came in at 1 percent of the quarter. Pricing was down 1 percent versus year-ago, mainly due to selective adjustments in the western Europe fabric care, feminine care and baby care. This part of a holistic strategy aimed at increasing competitiveness of our brands versus our discounters.  

Encouragingly, our business in Western Europe has been responding well. We've been growing organic volume in the single-digit range or better -- mid-single digit range or better -- for the last 10 quarters. We're building share in categories representing more than 75 percent of our business. Importantly, a portion of those share gains have come from part (ph) to discounters and private labels. Over the past 12 months, in one of the toughest markets, Germany, we have outgrown non-branded competition in all of our four core categories. We gained back share in diapers, feminine protection products, detergents and shampoo, while Aldi, the leading hard discounter, has declined in all four of these categories. It is important for the long-term health of the consumer product sector in western Europe that non-branded competition and hard discounters are kept in check. Our brands, innovation programs and improved consumer value are all helping bring shoppers back to the retailers that support branded goods.  

Next, onto earnings and margin performance. Operating income was up 9 percent to $2.9 billion for the quarter. The operating margin declined 80 basis points versus last year. It was due to the addition of Wella and the Prilosec OTC pipeline shipments in the base period. Gross margin improved by 10 basis points to 51.9 against the strong base period where gross margin grew 180 basis points. We have managed to offset increased pressure from commodity prices and the negative mix effect of rapid developing market growth with a combination of scale leverage from higher volume, base period savings projects (ph) base business savings projects in our global purchasing strategy, as well as the portfolio shift towards higher-margin businesses and primarily the addition of Wella.  

Selling, general and administrative expenses increased 90 basis points. Most of the increase was driven by Wella. The balance reflects support for our strong new product initiative program, which is driving top and bottom line growth ahead of our long-term targets.  

Overhead spending as a percent of sales was down. We continue to benefit from strong cost reduction performance in our global business services organization and we're maintaining rigorous cost discipline across all businesses. This is key to ensure that we bring the scaled benefits of topline growth to the bottom line.  

Now while John will cover the segments in detail, let me make a couple of brief comments about the quarter's profitability by business unit. Profit growth was led by beauty care. Fabric and Homecare and Babycare also delivered solid results. We are investing behind numerous initiative to sustain topline growth in these businesses with good success so far. Snacks and coffee profits were down for the quarter because we had to respond to continued competitive price discounting and trade promotion spending, despite higher green coffee prices. And finally, health care was down slightly. Recall the base period included a significant pipeline volume fill for the Prilosec OTC launch, while most of the marketing support did not kick in until the December quarter. Excluding Prilosec, health-care sales and earnings would have grown double-digits.  

The quarter also marks the first year anniversary of the Wella acquisition. We continue to be very encouraged. The Wella organization has done an excellent job. They've maintained good topline momentum through the difficult transition period and despite increased competitive activity. At the same time, we did not take our eye off the ball on our base business, which has been growing double-digits for the past 12 months.  

We are starting to leverage Wella and P&G capabilities across beauty care to accelerate growth and create an even more robust innovation pipeline across our hair care business. Additional retail capabilities in developing markets has contributed to double-digit volume growth in beauty care. Our key objective is to achieve a balance between our growth and cost synergy plans with good results to date. In line with our previous guidance, the impact of Wella on earnings was about neutral for the quarter and the first year.  

Now let's turn to cash performance. Operating cash flow in the quarter was $1.9 billion, over 300 million more than the same period of last year. This was driven by strong earnings growth and solid improvements in working capital metrics. Receivables and payables improved by a day. Inventory improved by more than two days versus the prior year, driven mainly by beauty care as we streamline the Wella supply chain. Free cash flow for the quarter was more than $1.5 billion. Capital spending for the quarter was 3 percent of sales, free cash flow productivity came in at 75 percent, about 5 points above the same period a year ago and we remain confident that we can deliver another year of free cash flow productivity at or above our 90 percent target.  

We continue to invest in the business and at the same time, return cash to the shareholders. For the September quarter, we distributed dividend just under $700 million and repurchased shares worth more than 600 million.  

To summarize, we're very satisfied with our results in the quarter. Our strategies are continuing to drive growth, even through this challenging cost and operating environment. Despite these challenges, we delivered another quarter with results ahead of our long-term growth objectives. This was driven by robust returns from our successful initiative program, a strong focus on cost reduction efforts and selective pricing to recover inflation-related cost increases. Now I will turn it over to John for a discussion of the business unit segments.  

JOHN GOODWIN, TREASURER, PROCTER & GAMBLE: Thanks, Clayt. The Beauty Care business unit delivered strong results on both its top and bottom line this quarter. Volume increased 25 percent, including two incremental months of the Wella business. As a reminder, the Wella acquisition closed in early September of last year. The organic volume increased 10 percent, led by double-digit growth of the global Skin Care, Hair Care and Family Care businesses.  

Sales for the quarter were $4.7 billion, an increase of 24 percent. Foreign exchange added 3 percent to sales growth. Mix was a drag of 3 percent due to strong growth in developing markets and pricing reduced sales by 1 percent. Net earnings were $692 million, an increase of 16 percent. The benefits from strong volume growth and cost savings programs were partially offset by higher commodity costs, increased marketing spending to support a strong lineup of product innovation and lower margins from the incremental Wella business.  

Global Skin Care delivered its fourth consecutive quarter of 20 percent-plus volume growth. The strong growth of the Olay brand has been driven by a combination of geographic expansion and new product innovation. Our developing market Skin Care volume grew by more than 40 percent in the quarter behind the launch of the Olay Total Effects and Regenerist lines.  

In the U.S., the success of a new Olay Regenerist Eye Serum has helped the brand grow all outlet value share to over 40 percent, up 4 percentage points versus last year. Importantly, the Regenerist line has been virtually all incremental to the franchise as the base Olay and Total Effects lines continue to grow.  

Global retail Hair Care volume increased nearly 20 percent. Excluding Wella, retail Hair Care volume increased 10 percent. Organic growth results were led by developing markets where volume was up more than 20 percent behind the Pantene, Rejoice, Head & Shoulders and Herbal Essences brands. Japan Hair Care volume was up more than 40 percent behind the introduction of Herbal Essences. North America volume was down slightly due primarily to soft market share for hair colorants and for minor share improved brands which have been deemphasized. Importantly, our two biggest brands -- Pantene and Head & Shoulders -- continue to deliver strong growth.  

The Global Feminine Care business continued to deliver strong results, also delivering double-digit volume growth. This has been driven by the expansion of the Naturella brand, top tier growth of the Always/Whisper franchise behind the latest product innovation in top sheet performance and feel and new pad products designed specifically for light flow days.  

In addition, the U.S. Tampax business has grown all outlet value share to nearly 47 percent behind the strength of the Pearl line of innovative new products, up more than another 4 share point versus year ago. Health Care delivered solid results on top of an exceptionally strong base period that included launch shipments of Prilosec OTC. The September quarter marked the one-year anniversary of the launch of Prilosec OTC. We're pleased to report that we delivered slightly above the $400 million of year one retail sales, the top end of our target range. Prilosec past three month U.S. all outlet value share of heartburn remedies was 31 percent, the clear market leader.  

Health care volume grew 6 percent and sales were up 7 percent to $1.8 billion. Foreign exchange contributed 2 percent to sales growth and price mix had a negative 1 percent impact on sales due to rapid growth of oral care in developing markets. Net earnings were $255 million, down 4 percent due mainly to strong earnings contribution of Prilosec OTC in the base period. As Clayt mentioned, excluding Prilosec OTC, sales and earnings would have been up double-digit.  

Pharmaceuticals delivered another strong quarter with global volume up more than 25 percent. Actonel again led the growth with volume up more than 50 percent. Actonel's global share of biphosphonate for the treatment of osteoporosis reached 31 percent. This quarter marked the five-year anniversary of P&G's acquisition of the Iams company. Since the acquisition, our new sales have doubled, profits have trebled and Iams has grown from the number five brand to number one in the U.S. pet nutrition market. In this quarter, pet health and nutrition grew volume mid-single digits in the U.S., behind the recent launch of the new Eukanuba Lamb & Rice product initiative.  

Global Oral Care volume was up low single-digits versus a strong base period that included the launch of the three Crest Whitening Expressions flavors in North America. Crest dentifrice past three months U.S. oral outlet value share was over 32 percent, up more than 2 percentage points versus year ago and in-line with the other main competitor. Sequentially, share in the U.S. was down in September as our main competitor significantly increased the amounts of volume moved on promotion in track channels and offered deep price discounts in club stores. Toothpaste share is up in key developing markets. Our value share in Russia is up nearly four points versus last year to over 25 percent, eight points ahead of the nearest competitor. In China, Crest value share is up four points to over 21 percent and we have narrowed the gap versus the main competitor to just three points.  

Baby and Family Care delivered strong volume sales and earnings growth for the quarter. Volume grew 7 percent, led by double-digit growth in Baby Care. Family care also had a solid quarter, with volume up mid-single digits. Sales increased 9 percent to $2.9 billion, including a 3 percent help from foreign exchange. Pricing increases in North America Family Care were offset mainly by adjustments taken in earlier quarters in Baby Care. The Baby Care price changes were in select Western European markets to compete more effectively with hard discounters and private labels.  

And in North America to support new large count value pack formats.  

Net earnings for the quarter were $320 million, an increase of 9 percent versus a strong base period where earnings grew 23 percent. The benefits from volume growth and ongoing cost savings were partly offset by higher commodity costs and increased marketing spending behind a strong portfolio of innovative new products in both Baby and Family Care. Family Care delivered strong results behind double-digit topline growth of Charmin. Solid volume growth on Charmin and Bounty has been driven by several new product innovations that launched in the first half of the calendar year. Also hoping the topline is the price increase that went into effect in July, which partly recovered year-on-year pulp and natural gas cost increases.  

In Baby Care, U.S. Pampers diaper past three month all outlet value share was over 29 percent, up more than three points versus year ago behind the continued growth of the Baby Stages line. The Feel n' Learn pant initiative, which launched this quarter, has delivered very strong results. Feel n' Learn has been almost entirely incremental to the Pampers brand and Pampers now has over 30 percent value share of the pants market in the U.S.  

Western Europe Pampers diapers continue to deliver value share improvements with the past three months' share at about 53 percent, up almost 2 percentage once versus year ago. This growth has been driven by a continuous stream of innovation, including newborn upgrades on the premiums tier and enhanced fit and performance on the Baby Dry line. Momentum on Can Do toddler care products also continues to be strong with the launch of new scents on wipes.  

Fabric and Home Care delivered strong topline results, with volume and sales both up double-digits. Volume increased 11 percent and sales of $3.8 billion, up 12 percent. Foreign exchange helped sales growth by 3 percent. Pricing reduced sales by 1 percent, mainly due to prior period laundry price adjustments in select Western European markets. Mixed loads sales by 1 percent, driven by a rapid growth of fabric care in developing markets. Net earnings for the quarter were $600 million, an increase of 7 percent. Earnings growth trailed sales growth due to the price mix impact's higher commodity costs and increased marketing investments to support a very strong lineup of new product initiative.  

Fabric Care grew global volume double-digits for the quarter behind high-single digit growth in developed markets and high-teens growth in developing regions. Stronger North America shipments were driven by the launch of Tide with a touch of Downy. In addition, the Gain brand has continued to deliver strong growth and is now a large number two brand in the U.S. portfolio. Value share for Gain fabric care is up more than 2 points versus year ago to 10 percent of the U.S. market. Western Europe shipments were also strong, despite the difficult operating environment. Home care volume also increased double-digits. North America grew volume in the mid-teens behind the launch of the Febreze Air Effects and Scent Stories innovations. Also, the Swiffer line of innovative quick cleaning products continued its outstanding performance, growing all outlet value share of cleaning systems to over 75 percent in the U.S.  

Snacks and coffee volume was down slightly on the quarter. Sales were $714 million, up 1 percent, including foreign exchange help of 2 percent. Net earnings were 83 million, down 13 percent primarily due to Careen (ph) coffee cost increases. Folgers' past three month all outlet value share was over 32 percent, up about half a point from year ago levels. Pringles' past three months all outlet value share of U.S. potatoes snacks is up nearly 2 points to 16 percent. That concludes the business unit review. Now I'll turn the call back to Clayt.  

CLAYT DALEY: Thank you, John. Before we get into the guidance update, I'd like to take a moment to step back and underscore what we believe have been the drivers of P&G's success over the last three years and what we believe will be the drivers of success for the foreseeable future.  

P&G's innovation strategies for growth are working and they are what is needed for continued success. We're striking a good balance between growing both our foundation household businesses, as well as our health and beauty care businesses, our established categories as well as new adjacent categories and our developed as well as our developing markets. Our strategies have helped us improve our competitive position, strategically and structurally, not just tactically in the short-term. We have made systemic changes to our innovation and go to market approach. We have increased the pace of innovation by bringing more discontinuous ideas from outside of the Company. We have increased the success rate of our initiative program by being more disciplined in the qualification process and executing better.  

Improved execution traces back to the benefits of the new organization structure. It provides less overlap as well as more focus on accountability. Finally, our launch and leverage go to market strategy drives growth well beyond the initial introductory period.  

Over the past three years, we have added more than $0.5 billion in sales to our Oral Care businesses behind innovations such as Crest White Strips and Crest Whitening Expressions, as well as expanding into spin brushes and dental floss. We have nearly doubled our skin care business behind innovations such as Olay Total Effects and Regenerist, as well as creating new categories, such as Olay Daily Facials. We have turned around our home care business, growing it over 50 percent with gain changing innovations, such Febreze, Swiffer, Cascade, Action 2 and 1 Packs, Mr. Clean Magic Eraser and Mr. Clean Auto Dry. We have just created our first billion-dollar drug, Actonel, and have successfully taken another promising drug, Intrinsa, through Phase III trials.  

We have step-changed our developing market growth behind low-cost, low-capital approaches, innovating directly to the needs of lower income consumers with products such as Tide Clean White and Crest Green Tea in China and Pampers Basaca (ph) and Always Naturel in Latin America and Central and Eastern Europe.  

In total, we have created more than $2 billion of new categories sales for us as well as our customers and today, our innovation pipeline continues to be strong. The key is innovation, commercialized at reasonable price premiums that constitute a superior consumer value. And this is what we will continue to stay focused on to meet our long-term growth objectives.  

Now let's move onto guidance. Despite the strong first quarter results, we believe it is prudent at this point to maintain guidance within the current range of analyst EPS estimates for both the fiscal year as well as the December quarter. At this point, we simply need to be cautious about the balance of the fiscal year. Now I do not want to give anyone the impression that we're worried about missing the consensus estimates. But in light of higher commodity prices and higher price and promotion spending by several competitors, we simply believe that it is only prudent to make sure we have the financial capability to address whatever issues confront us in the balance of the fiscal year.  

As we mentioned at the beginning, we've already taken a number of price increases to recover higher raw and packing material costs due to escalation of oil prices and other supply and demand factors in the marketplace. Specifically, we're raising prices on detergents in Mexico, Turkey, the Philippines and a number of other countries. We're monitoring our input costs very closely and we will continue to take additional price increases in categories and countries to recover higher material costs, as justified.  

With regard to increased competitive spending activity, we remain committed to taking the appropriate steps to maintain competitive pricing and marketing support where and when necessary. However, as discussed earlier, long-term market share gains in this business are based on industry-leading innovations, not buying share in the short-term. We believe our broad-based innovation program positions us well for continued top and bottom line growth.  

Now turning to the top line for the December quarter, volume and sales are projected to be up 5 to 7 percent, another quarter at or above our long-term targets. Foreign exchange is expected to have a slightly positive impact on the December quarter, price mix is expected to continue to be modestly negative, primarily as a result of developing market momentum. The growth continues to be driven by excellent in-market execution of a robust initiative program. We will continue to leverage our first-quarter launches that are off to a great start. Recall these included Tide with a touch of Downy, Downy Simple Pleasures, Pampers Feel n' Learn, Olay Moisture rinse, Crest Vanilla Mint and Febreze Air Effects and Scent Stories.  

In addition, the initiative program for the December quarter will include performance upgrades on our diaper and feminine production products in Europe, new variants of Head & Shoulders, Cover Girl Outlast Eye and Lip Liner, Max Factor Color Perfection Lipstick and Seasonal Scent Offerings for Febreze, just to name a few.  

Finally, over the course of the quarter, we're bringing additional capacity online to meet the demand for initiatives that have exceeded the top end of our sales expectations. These include Prilosec, Tampax Pearl, as well as Pampers Baby stages of development.  

For the year, we continue to expect sales growth towards the upper end of our long-term target range of 4 to 6 percent. Net, we're cautiously optimistic about the future of our business but must remain focused on executing our innovation programs with excellence while maintaining tight cost control. This is the key to delivering yet another year ahead of our long-term growth objectives.  

Now that includes the business comments for the quarter. As you know, the discussion has included a number of forward-looking statements. If you will referred to our most recent 10-K and 10-Q reports, you will see a discussion of factors that could cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from these projections.  

And as required by Regulation G, we need to make sure you are aware that the in the call, we've made a number of reference to non-GAAP and other financial measures. Management believe these measures provide our investors valuable information on the underlying growth trends of our business. Organic refers to reported results, excluding impact of foreign exchange and acquisitions and divestitures where applicable and frequent cash flow represents operating cash flow, less capital expenditures. We have posted to our web site --  www.pg.com -- a full reconciliation of non-GAAP and other financial measures to provide additional clarifications. And at this point, A.G., John and I would be happy to open the call up to your questions.  

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Amy Chasen, Goldman, Sachs & Co.  

AMY CHASEN, ANALYST, GOLDMAN, SACHS & CO: Can you start by talking a little bit more about what is happening with the hard discounters in Western Europe? And maybe I'm not sure if you have this data available, but if you can tell us what their market share is today versus maybe two years ago, and also talk a little bit about how much more, how sort of far along you are, in terms of the price reductions that you've taken in that market. Is there a lot more to do go, or do you basically think that you are priced where you need to be in your key categories?  

A.G. LAFLEY, CHAIRMAN, PRESIDENT, CEO, PROCTER & GAMBLE: If I may, I want to step back and talk about Western Europe first and then we will focus on Germany, which is where the hard discounter phenomenon is relevant and important and incidentally, not a new one, a multi-decade phenomenon.  

Recall back in 2000, we made a strategic choice to focus on dramatically improving our performance and getting ourselves into leadership positions in our core categories in Western Europe, because Western Europe is the largest consumer market in the world. It is an even larger market than the U.S. While the household income is lower and while the market is growing a little bit slower than the U.S. market, it is nevertheless a large market.  

So in the context of that, we have been focusing on our core businesses first and our key countries. And that brings us to the focus on the core business is what has led to the consistent strength over four years in the Baby Care business that has us back comfortably above a 50 share market. The consistent strength in the Fem Care business, which has us back at about -- actually I think a bit above a 50 share of market. We have improved our performance in the fabric care and laundry businesses and home care businesses and we're now widening our lead in fabric care. And we have just gained in the last year leadership in the hair care shampoo business, which we of course hope to build on.  

As we look at countries, it is a very different picture in the largest countries. The UK is a very attractive market structurally for a lot of reasons and we continue to do very well there. Southern Europe, both Italy and Spain, have different dynamics which we can take you through, but they tend to be fairly fragmented trade, a mix of trade and really not major hard discounter areas or even soft discounter areas.  

France and Germany again have different dynamics and the biggest issue regarding hard discounters is Aldi, which is primarily a German phenomenon. And our decision, which we took a few years ago, was based on looking at the Aldi phenomenon over a couple of decades. And we concluded a few things. One, they were serving consumers that we really want to be serving; two, they were frankly doing a better job of branding than most of the branded manufacturers. There was a survey two or three years ago in Germany -- Aldi was the number one brand in Germany, ahead of Mercedes, ahead of Volkswagen, and unfortunately, ahead of a number of our key brands.  

Three, they were doing a reasonable job on innovation. They weren't creating any innovations themselves, but they had developed a pretty decent supply network and they were bringing in some interesting products through their supply chain.  

So to make a long story short, we decided we absolutely, positively had to improve our consumer performance in the German market, which is the largest consumer market in Europe. And we put strategies in place core business by core business. And the objective was to see whether we couldn't convince German women, primarily in German households, that our brands represented better value and better performance and better quality. And I would be happy to talk about any one of the programs, but I will say this.  

We are still selling our brands at significant price premiums. The price premiums we're selling at are 30, 50, 70 percent or more, depending on the brand, depending on the category. So this is not about matching our discounter pricing.  

The second thing I will say is the product innovation has been incredibly important. We are bringing innovation to German consumers that Aldi just cannot get access to; it's that simple. The third thing that is important is that we have -- there is -- I won't get sidetracked on this, but there is a German quasi-governmental testing service that tests new products. Think of Consumer Reports or Consumer Guide, or something like that. And we realize that, for a lot of German consumers, this was a very credible organization. And we started focusing on having our products win those tests and we've had a number of product test wins over the past two or three years.  

Lastly, we have marketed and I think we've marketed in a way that has caught consumers' attention. We've asked them to compare the value of our product to the offerings of the hard discounters and we've asked them, we've tried to reframe value. Value isn't just the price comparison, value is all about what do I get for the money that I have spent, and that has been reasonably successful.  

As we reported this morning, we have improved our absolute and relative share positions on all of our core businesses versus the hard discounters. Aldi's shares are actually down in our four core categories. This is not a one-quarter phenomenon. This is a multi-decade phenomenon. And frankly, it is a branded Aldi sort of minimalist offering versus a branded, innovative, higher performance, higher quality offering. If I could just say one last thing, Amy to complete the thought. We've also worked real hard with the retailers who were -- who have supported brands but have not done it as effectively as they could. And I won't go through each retailer, but we've worked with programs with them to demonstrate that they can put shoppers back into their stores, they can get a bigger share of the basket and they can grow their topline profitably.  

CLAYT DALEY: And the fact that the share's growing again suggests that we have the pricing about right, that there are not necessarily additional price reductions coming, although of course the competition is always a moving target.  

AMY CHASEN: A.G., in listening to your comments, I would have the impression that there have not been any major price adjustments, but that is not my understanding. Have you made significant price adjustments? And I guess, Clayt, based on your last comment, it sounds like (multiple speakers).  

CLAYT DALEY: I think the answer, Amy, is yes. It was a combination of innovation and new products, as well as price adjustments. We've gotten to the point where we were selling at 100 percent premiums to Aldi on diapers and feminine protection products. And the consumer was just basically saying, we love your products, but it is too much spread. And so as A.G. indicated, we have gotten those spreads down in the 30 or 50 percent range where the value equity shifts in our favor.  

JOHN GOODWIN: Amy, importantly, these are not major interventions that we've made this quarter. This has been a long-term process that we've been working over a number of years to, as A.G. mentioned, readjust the consumer back into retail channels where branded goods are sold and supported.  

AMY CHASEN: Just to close the thought, and then I will let somebody else ask a question. It sounds like you think that you're largely done for now with those price adjustments, realizing that it's a moving target.  

CLAYT DALEY: Correct.  

AMY CHASEN: Thank you.  

OPERATOR: Ann Gillin-Lefever, Lehman Brothers.  

ANN GILLIN-LEFEVER, ANALYST, LEHMAN BROTHERS: A.G., I wondered if you could just kind of give us your forward thoughts around when we see more positive operating leverage by business line. We've had a lot of one-off items going through each business line, but there was really only one this quarter where you had revenue growth and EBT growth equal, rather than lower than each other?  

A.G. LAFLEY: I assume what you're asking about is margin expansion?  

ANN GILLIN-LEFEVER: Essentially margin expansion. Even no more contraction -- by business line, A.G., rather than --.  

A.G. LAFLEY: Understand (indiscernible). Okay. I'm going to go -- Clayton and John will chime in here as I go around the business sector world. I think starting point in fabric care is our margins are very high to begin with. One of the reasons why we like the fabric care business so much is because it's so structurally attractive. And we essentially I think as you know earn health beauty personal care like margins and fabric care (ph). So what I think you will see us do there are two things. One is, we will continue to improve our position in developing markets and fill out our portfolios in developed markets. And some of that involves midtier buildout, which will work against margins.  

On the other hand, we all are also looking at what I would call margin enhancing and revenue enhancing initiatives. Tide with a touch of Downy is a (MULTIPLE SPEAKERS). Clayt's right -- I was going to roll into home care next. Really, if you look at what we're doing at home care, it is all about once we get through the investment period, the introductory period, that it's all about margin enhancement. We have fairly, I think we have -- it has been very clear. We have moved away from low end, more commodity-like household cleaning products. We sold off Comet and (indiscernible) and Cinch and Spic n' Span over the better part of a decade and we've moved into what we view are the more attractive segments in home care and they carry higher margins.  

CLAYT DALEY: But net-net in fabric and home care, the developing market growth has been so rapid, it in combination with the raw and the packing material cost pressure, which frankly is greater in fabric and home care than the other part of the business, is probably. So you're not going to see a lot of margin expansion there.  

A.G. LAFLEY: Okay, next business, let's go to beauty care. I think over time, you will see margin expansion in beauty care and it will be driven by two or three things. One is, well first of all, in beauty care of all of our businesses, our margins are really very good in developing markets. So we have higher margins in developing markets and we have very good margins in developed markets.  

The second point is, Wella I think as you know and Clairol to a lesser extent, were relatively lower margin businesses. And we have done a very good job on the cost synergy side in Clairol. We intend to do a very good job on Wella, so we will get those margins up on the schedule that we have talked about. And Clayt will be happy to talk about our Wella integration, if you are interested.  

JOHN GOODWIN: Over the last four quarters, Ann, don't forget that that was a drag on the bottom line. So as you look at the trend that you had seen --.  

CLAYT DALEY: The trend going forward in beauty care seems to be pretty good.  

JOHN GOODWIN: We had a lot of drag in Wella over the last four quarters.  

A.G. LAFLEY: And the third issue is simply sweetening the mix. Olay has been all about doubling business, but it has also been about sweetening the mix. Olay Daily Facials, the whole Total Effects line, Regenerist, they're all mixed sweeteners. Frankly, small businesses like fragrances and prestige skin care, which we're growing, sweeten our mix.  

When you come onto healthcare, healthcare, I think we have been pretty open about this. While our healthcare margins are pretty good in some of our categories, in others of our categories, we are not where we want to be. And we have been slowly but surely building our healthcare margins over time. We do believe we need to invest, so if Intrinsa gets improved, we're going to have a fairly significant investment in 2005. But I think as you've seen on Actonel, the margin comes.  

Prilosec has exceeded our expectations, retailers' expectations, and we're doing everything we can to build our product supply so we can fill the demand. But that market is expanding and I think that will be another relatively high margin business, but we have upside in healthcare.  

In Baby, we have made good progress behind two things. One is the focus on better and cheaper, and second is -- I think you would have to give us some credit for sweetening the mix across the whole category. The whole Baby Stage of Developments line, premium tape diapers, the Feel n' Learn offerings. We have been doing our part to convince mothers that there is a different value equity that involves higher revenue and higher margin.  

Having said that, we think there's upside to improve our operating TSR and margin performance in baby care. Family care, in North America, we're about, we're right there with the best competitor, in terms of our margin performance. And I don't see a ton of upside there. I think it is pretty clear that, again, we're trying to build out the offering on the high end and we're trying to stay competitive in the middle of the market.  

So if you step back, that's sort of a quick run through our business. If you step back, I think we will be able to improve our margins over time. It will be balanced, it will be measured and it will be, I hope to (multiple speakers).  

CLAYT DALEY: Ann, I understand the question, because if you look at the first quarter numbers, it's a very logical question. But I think what you're going to see for the total fiscal year is you're going to see margin expansion in the segments with the one exception being fabric and healthcare.  

ANN GILLIN-LEFEVER: You just did mention snacks and coffee, I know (multiple speakers).  

A.G. LAFLEY: Snacks and coffee, well, it's pretty simple. Snacks is expanding their margins, and they have to. And frankly, I don't want to digress on this because it's a relatively smaller business for us, but we have done a pretty good job with our innovation program in snacks. And I think if you talk to retailers, they're finding that we're bringing some pretty interesting innovation consumers seem to be responding to, and frankly that we can uniquely do because of the way we make Pringles.  

Coffee, we've talked about this. We have tried several times to bring some discipline and rationality to this category, and I honestly do not understand the behavior of the other primary players, branded and private label. We initiated a list price increase in the spring. We stuck with it just about as long as we thought we possibly could. Nobody moved and our share flattened and we decided we were not going to accept that because we have a number of important innovations -- the Aroma Seal canister and this Home Cafe, which we've started to get some experience with. So we decide that we had to step in with some trade promotions for it. But I think that one could and should improve.  

CLAYT DALEY: Pringles should improve over time, too.  

ANN GILLIN-LEFEVER: I just had one small question. Can you just explain, because I did not think you were manufacturing Prilosec, why you're adding capacity to that one?  

CLAYT DALEY: It is bringing more capacity in from the parker (ph).  

A.G. LAFLEY: I shouldn't have said adding capacity.  

CLAYT DALEY: More pill supply.  

ANN GILLIN-LEFEVER: Perfect. Thank you.  

OPERATOR: Wendy Nicholson, Smith Barney.  

WENDY NICHOLSON, ANALYST, SMITH BARNEY: My first question is just a follow-up on the last one, the mention of Intrinsa. If that does get approved, is there risk that you have to bring down numbers for '05, or do you think you can fund the Intrinsa investment out of your current guidance.  

CLAYT DALEY: I would not expect Intrinsa to change the guidance for this year.  

WENDY NICHOLSON: Okay, fine. My bigger picture question is on hair care, if you could separate out maybe an update on Wella. I know that you said that it came in neutral to earnings in year one. But if you could give us an update on kind of now what -- did the synergy start to kick in, and should we see margin expansion there? Can you talk about that? But then I guess even more important to me is the North American business, which is still under pressure. Is that a competitive issue? Is that just lack of successful innovation? Is it a pricing issue? What are the moving pieces, and what can we look for in coming quarters?  

A.G. LAFLEY: I will take the business side and then Clayt will take the integration side, which the headline there is we're on track. I'm going to try to simplify this Wendy, and then if you want to go into more detail, we'll try to go into more detail. When you step way back, our hair care business is in pretty dog-gone good shape overall. And it has been a big contributor to our success over the last five years. And what we're seeing right now frankly is some very good, very, very fast growth in developing markets.  

Where frankly our portfolio is very competitive, our products are very competitive, and we have a good MDO position in most of the major developing markets, so we can expand fairly rapidly. We have also had a breakthrough in Japan. Japan has a very tough Hair Care market. And we've had two breakthroughs, one Pantene, we restaged and about a year ago, a little more than a year ago, and that brand has grown well. And then we just introduced Herbal Essences. And I try not to get too excited about the first few months, but we're certainly off to a good start there.  

The two challenges have been the colorants business. And I will be the first one to say, and I've tried to say this several times, but it's going to take us some time to learn it. We've had some ups and downs, we got a little bit of a lift in the U.S. last year when we brought some innovation in the first part of the year. We have another round of innovation coming in January again this year. But honestly, it has been a step and a half forward, a step back. And I think it's going to be a little bit like cosmetics, so I will be the first to say we're not going to take ten years to learn the colorants business, like we did in cosmetics.  

I have put Marc Pritchard over there and we just brought in Patrice Louvet, who ran our hair care business in Japan and we have a really good team at Clairol. We have a really experienced at Wella, and I think we're going to learn the colorant business and I think we're going to learn it faster now that we have Wella and Clairol hooked together. And we still see it as a future opportunity to grow. Because the areas where we need to build out, our hair care business. The segments we need to bring out are colorants and styling.  

Coming to the U.S., it has been a tale of two cities. Pantene and Head & Shoulders have both done very well. Pantene has done phenomenally well. And even in the face of Fructis, which is a great brand, a good product line and as always by Loreal, well executed, and in the face of Dove, which again is a very competitive product line. If you step way back, Dove didn't end up generating any extra business for Unilever. And Fructis did generate some extra business and we took some of the loss. And we took some of the loss on our loss weaker brands.  

So what we're doing right now is strategically, we are shifting the emphasis on our portfolio. And frankly, we are deemphasizing some of the lower end brands that we picked up in the Clairol acquisition. We are investing in some of the Clairol brands; Aussie is a notable example, and we're going to see if we can create a styling like brand there. And we're going to stay very focused on Pantene, Head & Shoulders and we're going to try to build back up Herbal Essences because Fructis took a share point or so out of our Herbal Essence business because there are a lot of similarities between the promise and the execution.  

So I'm feeling cautiously optimistic about our U.S. business. We know what needs to be done, we have locked down on the strategy. You asked a question about whether there is an issue of product or product innovation. We don't think so. We think our products are very competitive. We have some major innovation coming after the first of the year. So I don't think that's the issue. I think we just need to sort through our brand portfolio, we need to get it well differentiated and we need to get it targeted to the relevant consumer segment. And if we can do that, we will be fine.  

CLAYT DALEY: I'll just comment briefly on Wella. When we originally announced the Wella acquisition, we anticipated it would be neutral in year one and slightly accretive in year two. Of course, that was based on very limited due diligence on Wella, and in fact, frankly, no involvement from our markets as part of that process because of the process that was run year. As we have gotten into Wella, as I mentioned on the call, what has become clear is there is a greater opportunity to use the Wella go to market capability, particularly in developing markets and specifically in central and eastern Europe and Latin America, but other markets as well, to drive more P&G business in addition to driving more Wella business.  

So we have shifted the focus in the short-term a little bit more to the topline opportunity, and frankly have retained more of the go to market capability Wella has been than we had originally planned. Now, we still think we're going to get the EUR300 million synergies that we announced at the time of the deal, but because of this somewhat change in strategy from topline focus to topline focus, as we said in our last call three months ago, we think Wella is frankly going to be probably pretty neutral again this year. But that is a conscious choice, as opposed to we're worried that we cannot get the synergies.  

A.G. LAFLEY: Just to be clear on that, they cover more drugstores, pharmacies and perfumeries and cosmetics stores than we do. Okay? And that extra coverage allows us not only to strengthen our hair care position in those outlets, but also to bring some of the rest of our beauty care and personal care and health care lines into those outlets where our P&G salespeople were not covering but Wella salespeople are covering.  

WENDY NICHOLSON: And it's fair to say that it's that rationale that's extending to the U.S. sort of test of not going direct to salons with Wella, as opposed to through distributors like Alberto?  

A.G. LAFLEY: It's actually, it's a different choice that we made, but I'm happy to talk about that. About 20 states in the U.S., we went through Alberto Culver, as did our main competitor, and it was quite clear that not being the leader was putting us at a disadvantage.  

So, and this has been hard for some -- that conclusion, based on our business performance over the last three to five years, plus frankly a model that we had tested in a couple of states in the U.S. and that we run everywhere else around the world, which is a direct model because Wella offers more than just brands and products. Wella offers education, Wella offers training, Wella offers a whole one of services. And to really leverage the full Wella offering, we need to test direct.  

We have very strong bonds in a lot of countries in the world between the Wella, frankly, experts and the salon owners and stylists and cutters. So we wanted to -- that's the system, that's the strategy we wanted to test putting in place in the U.S. And frankly, we wanted to test a few states, but we couldn't agree on how to do it, so we ended up testing 20 states at a time. It's a relatively modest investment. It's an important one that we have to make. We still work closely with Alberto Culver because their Sally Beauty Shops and other retail operations carry our brands and our brands are important brands to them and they are important channel for us.  

WENDY NICHOLSON: Fair enough. Thank you very much.  

OPERATOR: Chris Ferrara, Merrill Lynch.  

CHRIS FERRARA, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: I just wanted to ask on the competitive front, Unilever was out with results obviously. And they were talking about the fact that they did not really spend a lot on advertising and promotion this quarter and it will be ramped up in Q4. And I'm just curious I guess what your perspective is on that and what you expect to see and whether you would see spending, have to ratchet up relative to that?  

CLAYT DALEY: Chris, we obviously didn't have a lot of time to review their numbers, but we saw the same thing this morning you did. I don't know, at least what I saw in the Unilever presentation was they said they had basically taken 180 basis points of sales reduction for pricing and promotion. And so that felt to me like a reasonable amount and we've certainly seen that in a number of marketplaces.  

A.G. LAFLEY: Chris, If I may just say two things. One is, several of our competitors have actually increased their promotion spending and reduced their prices since the beginning of the calendar year. So this has not been something that just dropped in in the July September quarter or will drop in in the December quarter. It has been a part of their tactics.  

The second thing I would say, and really, this is far and away the most important one, is we really do try to stay focused on the consumer and what's the consumer value equation that we need to deliver, and that means the whole offering. What's the product offering, the product line offering, what's the brand promise, how good a shopping experience and usage experience can we create, and then where do we need to price so that will be a good value. So most of our support, the vast majority of our support, is going behind strong brands or new product innovation. It's not going on trade spend. We are spending, we are investing to get consumer trial and encourage consumer purchase of products that at least are testing better in consumer's eyes. And in many cases, represent new categories and new segment in categories.  

CHRIS FERRARA: Is it fair to say that you would not expect any incremental spending from what you have seen from your competitors (multiple speakers)?  

CLAYT DALEY: For us, we wait and see.  

CHRIS FERRARA: Thank you.  

OPERATOR: Andrew Shore, Deutsche Bank.  

ANDREW SHORE, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: A.G., just for a matter of clarification, I was just wondering, did you just lower your margin goals, because there's also no mention of it in your 8-K? You talk about the growth algorithm in the 8-K for all of the other parts of growth, but nothing about margins. And at the same time, you did not change your sales goals. So I was just wondering if you could talk to that?  

A.G. LAFLEY: No, we haven't, and the goals remain the same.  

JOHN GOODWIN: Andrew, in the 8-K, we've always spoken about what the key deliverables are, not how to deliver those items. So we have not changed any goals.  

CLAYT DALEY: Although to the interest of completeness, obviously here in the short-term, we have delivered more topline and somewhat less margin expansion to achieve the earnings.  

JOHN GOODWIN: But we've always said, the process, the way we're going to deliver over the long-term is a long-term average. So you have to respond to, one, what is happening in the innovation pipeline and make sure you make the most of that, invest behind it, and if you can drive more on topline, you're going to do it. And then also you obviously always go through economic cycles as well. So it's to the extent that one quarter, you get a little bit of compression relative to others, then that is going to take place.  

ANDREW SHORE: Fair enough. Also, in response to Amy's question, you said you were pretty happy with where pricing is right now, but you'll always look at that. But there's also been some talk on the European trade about you interested in raising detergent prices in Europe. Can you comment on that?  

A.G. LAFLEY: I think as we said in the call (ph) report, we have in fabric care been selectively raising prices in a number of countries. The ones we mentioned, I don't think any of them were in Europe. We actually were a little bit surprised to see some price changes in Germany that went the other way in the past several weeks, given the commodity pricing situation. So I think the simple way to say this is, we are always seeking to recover in pricing justified cost increases, but we look market by market to make sure that we stay on our strategy as we move on pricing.  

And I guess I mean really, I want to say one more thing Andrew on your first question, because we have more, I would say we have a little more visibility now. We keep trying to get more visibility into the future and we have a pretty good view of what our innovation pipeline is going to be for a year or two, sometimes a bit more in the future. And that enables us to do I think better planning. And what John was talking about, our pipeline frankly has been growing and we've been trying to balance an appropriate investment in that pipeline with delivering our commitments to shareholders. And as John and Clayt said, that is meant in the recent past and probably in the near future, we're going to continue to be delivering more on the topline side, which relates to Ann's question.  

I think you will see the margin come, but the margin will come over time and we try to keep things in balance.  

The other phenomenon that I think is important to understand is this whole idea of it takes longer to build awareness and to get trial among your target consumers than it used to. So we are finding these what we call launch and leverage programs to work. I think it's significant that we are still growing the Total Effects business while we are in the second phase of launch items on Regenerist, and skin care is not the only business where this is happening. There are a lot of businesses that we look at and we still believe we have fairly significant trial upside (ph). And I'm not talking about -- I'm talking about trial among the primary prospect upside. And as long as -- we will continue to build the business as long as there is trial opportunity there.  

CLAYT DALEY: But to wrap up on the other point, despite the pricing and promotion environment that's out there and the commodity costs, we're still confident of where we're headed this year.  

ANDREW SHORE: I promise this is the last one. This is a question really for you, A.G. All companies seem like they have selective amnesia, and I was just wondering, what it that you do as the leader of this fine firm to keep hubris from developing its ugly head, especially now that I'm sure in the organization you feel a Midas touch?  

A.G. LAFLEY: Well, I think the primary thing, Andrew, is we try to stay very focused on the consumer, and the consumer is incredibly demanding and we're looking at rising expectations and we're looking at consumers who increasingly want it all. They want better performance, quality and value, they want it now, they'd like it at a better prize if you can give it to them at a better prize.  

The second thing I think we're doing better is we try to stay really close to our retailers. I think we're developing stronger partnerships across more channels in more countries with more retailers. And I think you know, as well as I do, the great thing about your retailers is they tell it to you like it is. And they are working in the present and they're working in the battle of the marketplace. So I think we're getting straight talk from them.  

And then the last thing is, we are really trying not to get complacent because we're very aware of the opportunities we have and we're very aware of the problems that we still need to solve. And I guess the last thing I would say is, if you think about it, given the breadth of the industries that we're in and our geographic breadth, we have to compete with the absolute best companies in the world. We compete with the best in beauty care and the best in paper and the best and personal care. And we compete not just with global players, we have to compete with the Henkels and (indiscernible) and the Shisedos of the world. So I think that keeps you humble, because they are very good. They are very good at what they do. And what we've tried to do is just stay as focused as we can on the consumer, as focused as we can on this consumer value notion and as focused as we can on winning these two consumer moments of truth -- delivering a better shopping experience, delivering a better usage experience. And when we win with the consumer, we're going to be okay. When we get distracted and start getting involved in tactical tit for tat, we're going to get in trouble, we're going to get distracted.  

ANDREW SHORE: Thank you.  

OPERATOR: Lauren Lieberman, Credit Suisse First Boston.  

LAUREN LIEBERMAN, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE FIRST BOSTON: Thank you, good morning. Just wanted to go quickly through -- you mentioned in the first bit of your comments that a number of categories were more competitive. I can probably guess at what they are, but if you can just kind of run through maybe those three or four categories that are notably more competitive than they might have been three months ago than you might have expected?  

CLAYT DALEY: (multiple speakers) the interesting is the three months, because as we have said, there has definitely been a step up in competition in oral care, but it really has been there for the entire calendar year.  

A.G. LAFLEY: I would say even in oral care, the competitiveness has narrowed to the dentifrice part of the market. Let me think. Lauren, this is such a tough question, because we don't think we're playing in any easy markets against the little sisters of the poor. We think every market we're in is pretty competitive, and actually, that's good for the consumer. It's really good for the consumer that it is competitive.  

I think they are competitive for different reasons. For example, fabric care, I think the nature of the competition is shifting. It has historically been a very tough business. It's a business where you really have to be, you have to focus on the fundamentals. It's a business where execution really matters and it is a business where scale matters. I think what's going on is we are finding successful ways to leverage our scale there.  

We talked about oral care. I think there are some countries that are very competitive. We mentioned Germany. Germany's very competitive because of the reasons we talked about, the hard discounter phenomenon over the last couple of decades. Japan is a very competitive market, but I don't think anything has changed dramatically in the past few months.  

LAUREN LIEBERMAN: Okay. Thank you.  

OPERATOR: Bill Pecoriello, Morgan Stanley.  

BILL PECORIELLO, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: I was hoping you could help us understand this other non-operating line, just the 182 to give us the components of what was in there and break it down for us?  

JOHN GOODWIN: Where are you picking that up?  

BILL PECORIELLO: I'm looking at the overall P&L, the other non-operating income net.  

CLAYT DALEY: A lot of what is in there is the Sunny Delight divestiture impact. That is by far and away the biggest item in that 182 versus the prior year.  

JOHN GOODWIN: That's bulk of it, Bill.  

BILL PECORIELLO: You had the 2 cents gain in there. Anything else beside the 2 cents?  

JOHN GOODWIN: It's the normal items that you'd find in that line, so it's interest income, any gains from sale of assets and things like that.  

BILL PECORIELLO: We were trying to estimate how much the Sunny D was. It looked like it was a little bit, there was some other stuff in there a little bit larger than expected, even excluding the Sunny D.  

UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER: That's because the lost earnings contribution is taken out of the operating part of corporate.  

BILL PECORIELLO: So the discontinued operations are in there? And then you could you comment on your organic sales and profit trends in North America and West Europe, just for the total Company, all divisions in those two regions?  

CLAYT DALEY: mid-singles.  

A.G. LAFLEY: They're very consistent on volume.  

BILL PECORIELLO: And on the sales and operating profit?  

CLAYT DALEY: I think the sales is going to be comparable to the volume, and we do not -- I'm sorry, Bill -- comment on regional profitability.  

A.G. LAFLEY: I will just say three quick things. One, the sales growth and the unit volume growth has been very consistent in both markets and it has been above market growth. Two, our market shares have been growing very consistently and three quarters of our businesses, at least 75 percent of our volume, in both of the U.S. and western Europe. And thirdly, it's 70 to 75 percent of our business worldwide, so you can expect that the profit is going to be pretty okay.  

BILL PECORIELLO: Okay, great. Thank you.  

OPERATOR: Bill Leach, Neuberger Berman.  

BILL LEACH, ANALYST, NEUBERGER BERMAN: Actually, Bill asked my question for me, so I am okay. Thank you.  

OPERATOR: Connie Maneaty, Prudential Equity.  

CONNIE MANEATY, ANALYST, PRUDENTIAL EQUITY: Good morning. just a couple of simple questions. What was the impact of raw materials on the gross margin?  

CLAYT DALEY: Something probably a bit above 50 basis points.  

CONNIE MANEATY: And what would the gross margin have been excluding, Wella?  

CLAYT DALEY: Gross margin excluding Wella -- probably would have been down slightly, because it was only up 10.  

JOHN GOODWIN: There's a lot of moving components this quarter, Connie. You have the mix aspect, with respect to developing market growth. And there is a number of other items going on. Obviously with raw materials and stuff like that and Prilosec in the base. So it's difficult to fragment it out into one item.  

CLAYT DALEY: Prilosec was a huge gross margin positive in the base period (ph).  

CONNIE MANEATY: And the final thing is, I forgot what you said about foreign exchange may be slightly positive in the second quarter?  

CLAYT DALEY: Right, probably slightly positive, but might be a percent as we see it now.  

CONNIE MANEATY: Do you see it turning negative within the next 12 months?  

CLAYT DALEY: I don't know. If I could forecast currencies, I would probably be doing another job. But I actually am not optimistic about the dollar, given the trade deficit, the oil imports and the budget deficit.  

CONNIE MANEATY: Thank you.  

OPERATOR: Linda Bolton Weiser, Oppenheimer.  

LINDA BOLTON WEISER, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER: A.G., I was just wondering, as you become a more significant global player in beauty, if you have an interest in Prestige color, or are you happy with the Prestige skin care the fragrance presence that you have?  

A.G. LAFLEY: Well one, I can't and wouldn't comment on any interests that we have that would involve acquisitions. Secondly, I think what we're trying to do is learn the businesses that we have. And we have two major activities going on, three major activities going on that we're trying to get up on the learning curve on. One is our Prestige skin care business, which is primarily SK2. And I think as you may know, we are slowly but surely expanding that brand into developed markets, including 10-plus Saks stores here the U.S. in the last year.  

Second, is we have essentially merged our buying fragrance business with Wella's fine fragrance business. There are a lot of great brands in the portfolio. We are sorting through the strategy on those brands, but that is a pretty good sized business for us and we're going to have to make sure that we can grow. Both businesses have grown very well independently. We're going to have to make sure when we put them together that we can continue to growth at that hopefully do a bit better. And then the third one we talked about earlier, and that is the professional salon business. We are really a few weeks, a few months into learning the professional salon business. It continues to be run by Wella, by Carsten Fischer at Wella. But I think there are going to be a lot of opportunities there for us. So before we leap into Prestige color cosmetics, I think we are going to have to get up the learning curve a little bit further in the businesses that we have.  

LINDA BOLTON WEISER: Okay thank you very much.  

OPERATOR: Joe Altobello, CIBC World Markets.  

JOE ALTOBELLO, ANALYST, CIBC WORLD MARKETS: Actually, most of my question have been answered. I did have one, and I apologize if you said this and I missed it, but what was overall commercial spending on an apples-to-apples basis this quarter?  

JOHN GOODWIN: What do you mean by commercial spending?  

CLAYT DALEY: Advertising, or?  

JOE ALTOBELLO: Everything, all in. If you could break it down by advertising, sales promotion?  

JOHN GOODWIN: We don't talk about total marketing spend Joe, because we don't disclose that. In terms of advertising, comparable to where we were last year.  

CLAYT DALEY: A little bit over 10 percent.  

JOE ALTOBELLO: Are you guys going to break that out on a quarterly basis? I think one of your competitors is going to start to do that.  

A.G. LAFLEY: If you look out over years three, four, five years, our advertising as a percent of sales was a bit under 9 percent, I'm thinking four or five years ago. We can double check the figures for you. And now it is a bit over 10 percent. Most of it is explained by shift in mix as about half of our business becomes health and beauty care. And the other fluctuation you will see in it is when we are in a period where we have a very rich number of new innovations that we're bringing to market. But remember, we are a company that believes in consistency and continuity of advertising. We believe it is part of building a brand's equity. So we just don't yo-yo the advertising around. We spend it on a pretty consistent basis.  

The one comment I will make on trade spending, and I think this is very well known, and you can check it with the retailers, but we are arguably the most efficient, the most efficient user of trade incentives in the industry. All of our incentives are performance-based. In other words, there has to be some performance by the retailer to earn the trade fund. And there frankly, we try very hard to make them brand and brand growth based (ph).  

JOE ALTOBELLO: And you did say the corporate overhead as a trend of sales was down?  

CLAYT DALEY: Corporate overhead as a percent of sales was down, yes, inside the SG&A line.  

JOE ALTOBELLO: Great, thank you very much.  

OPERATOR: John Faucher, J.P. Morgan.  

JOHN FAUCHER, ANALYST, J.P. MORGAN: I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about the mandated pricing actions in France and how you are planning on approaching them and maybe how that might differ from some of your competitors? Thanks?  

A.G. LAFLEY: John, I cannot help you on the last part, because I don't have any idea what our competitors' strategy or tactics are going to be. It's interesting, we were just talking about this subject this morning. I would have to say, the first thing we're going to do is make sure we understand what exactly they are going to do. And then when we are sure about that, then we will proceed with appropriate strategy and actions.  

We do think that more transparency is good for the French consumer. We do think that anything that will reduce the over emphasis on back margin is good for the consumer and good for manufacturers. And I guess the last thing is we do think that whatever we do, we want to do in a way that it represents on the one hand, the best value we can offer for French consumers and on the other hand, an attractive P&G business for our retailers that is growing and delivering an acceptable margin.  

CLAYT DALEY: I think we have already announced the fact that as part of the compliance with the new law in France, we definitely I believe announced some price adjustments on Always.  

JOHN FAUCHER: I guess the question then becomes, you can target this, right? It's not necessarily across the board. You can be more focused?  

CLAYT DALEY: That is correct. (multiple speakers). You do not have to comply with the law by dropping the price of everything.  

JOHN FAUCHER: Okay, so you were using this potentially as another opportunity to go after some categories where you think you have some opportunity if you lower the pricing?  

CLAYT DALEY: It comes back to the consumer and the fact that the consumer's telling us that we needed some value adjustments on that business.  

JOHN FAUCHER: Okay, thank you very much.  

OPERATOR: Jason Gere, A.G. Edwards.  

JASON GERE, ANALYST, A.G. EDWARDS: You were talking about some of the additional capacity that you're going to add on, and I did not hear anything about fabric care. Particularly, I just wanted to get an update on the Alexandra liquid plants and see how you're managing demand there, or is there a need for additional capacity?  

A.G. LAFLEY: I think I only mentioned that Prilosec was growing so quickly that we were asking our partner for additional supply. In laundry, we have made as you rightly say, a big investment in the Alexandria site where we are ahead of schedule and we're going to get it open next year and it's important because the business is growing.  

CLAYT DALEY: It's going to help a lot because we have been tight on capacity.  

A.G. LAFLEY: In Turkey, we're opening a new laundry plant in Turkey. So we're adding capacity where we need to add capacity to keep up with the growth pace of the business.  

JASON GERE: Is there any change to your CapEx targets for this year?  

A.G. LAFLEY: None.  

JASON GERE: Just a question. It looked like you did a fair amount of share repurchases in the quarter. And I guess should we look at that as kind of a trend for the rest of the year? I know last year, you did about 4 billion in share repurchases and I was just wondering what your outlook is?  

CLAYT DALEY: The share repurchase plan is a little bit unpredictable because we never know what's going to come up in the acquisition area. But Joe, we say barring anything significant in the acquisition area, the share repurchase should be probably in the range of last year, maybe not quite as high. But I would say that the first quarter was representative to maybe a little bit lower than what we will do for the rest of the year.  

JOHN GOODWIN: But, we're going to respond to the cash flow generation and.  

CLAYT DALEY: We take it on a quarter to quarter basis, relative to how the cash flow is developing.  

JASON GERE: Okay. And just the last thing, you mentioned earlier about hair care and some of the Clairol brands that I think you were going to deemphasize. And I guess what would you say, what percentage of your total portfolio would you deem not strategic and maybe you would look to sell off at some point?  

CLAYT DALEY: Not necessarily sell off at a very small percentage.  

JASON GERE: Great, thank you.  

OPERATOR: Andrew McQuilling, UBS Warburg.  

ANDREW MCQUILLING, ANALYST, UBS WARBURG: Actually, all have been asked and answered. Thank you.  

CLAYT DALEY: Thank you Andrew.  

OPERATOR: With that, we will conclude today's question and answer session. Mr. Daley, I'll turn the call back to you.  

CLAYT DALEY: Thank you all for joining us today. And as I said at the beginning, John and Thomas and I will be around to answer any follow-up questions. We appreciate your attention.  

OPERATOR: With that, we will conclude today's conference. Thank you everyone for your participation. You may now disconnect.  

[CCBN reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES CCBN ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. ]  

   CO
prgml : The Procter & Gamble Company
   IN
i25 : Chemicals | i258 : Cosmetics/Toiletries | icnp : Consumer Products | ipcare : Personal Care Products/Appliances
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
FDCH e-Media
   AN
Document FNDW000020041110e0ar000s9
  


 HD
 Q4  2004  Procter  & Gamble Company Earnings Conference Call - Final  
   WC
14,112 words
   PD
2 August 2004
   SN
FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
(c) Copyright 2004 CCBN and FDCH e-Media.  

   LP
OPERATOR: Good day, everyone, and welcome to the Procter & Gamble fourth-quarter earnings release conference call. Just a reminder, today's call is being recorded. The rebroadcast, reproduction or retransmission of this conference call in whole or in part is strictly prohibited without the prior written consent of the Procter & Gamble Company.  

At this time, for opening remarks, I'd like to turn the call over to the Chief Financial Officer, Mr. Clayt Daley. Please go ahead, sir.  

   TD
CLAYT DALEY, CFO, PROCTER & GAMBLE: Good morning and welcome to Procter & Gamble's fiscal year end conference call. A.G. Lafley, our CEO, and John Goodwin, our Treasurer, join me this morning.  

I will begin the call as always with a summary of our fourth-quarter results. John will cover the business results for the quarter by operating segment. A.G. will follow with his perspective on the year and I will wrap up the call with our expectations for actually the current fiscal year and more specifically for the current quarter. As always, we will leave time at the end of today's call for your questions and following the call, John, Thomas Tipple (ph) and I will also be available to provide additional perspective as needed.  

Now, onto our results. We completed the year with another strong quarter. Diluted EPS was up 47 percent versus the prior year reported EPS of 34 cents per share, which included 9 cents per share of restructuring charges. Core EPS, which excludes the restructuring program in the base period, was 50 cents per share, up 16 percent and 2 cents ahead of our increased guidance and the consensus.  

We wrapped up a very strong fiscal year. This is the kind of broad-based, topline and bottom-line growth that we can deliver when we are playing to our strengths and encounter no major macroeconomic issues.  

Fourth-quarter net sales were $13 billion, up 19 percent. Acquisitions and divestitures contributed 8 percent to sales growth, primarily driven by Wella. Foreign exchange added 3 percent. Organic sales growth, which excludes the impact of foreign exchange as well as acquisitions and divestitures, was up 8 percent. Total shipment volume increased 18 percent and organic volume grew a strong 10 percent.  

All business units in all regions delivered volume and sales growth at or above the Company's long-term target, with healthcare, beauty care and developing markets continuing to set the pace. Healthcare grew 13 percent; beauty care was up 41 percent, including acquisitions, and 11 percent on an organic basis. Developing markets maintained their momentum with volume growth a very strong 20 percent.  

All developing MDO regions grew to volume double digits, led by continued strong growth across Asia. As expected, the rapid growth in developing markets was the primary driver of negative mix, which came in at 1 percent on the quarter. Pricing was down 1 percent versus a year ago, primarily due to selective adjustments in fabric care as well as the tissue business. We are raising prices for tissue, coffee and pet nutrition categories to offset higher commodity costs as of this summer. Recently, we have seen reduced promotion activity in the U.S. paper categories.  

Next, earnings and margin performance. As a reminder, these comparisons are versus core results in the base period. Operating income was up 16 percent for the quarter. The operating margin decline of 40 basis points versus last year was due to the addition of Wella. Excluding Wella, we posted solid operating margin progress of over 50 basis points despite significant increases in marketing spending to drive initiatives.  

Gross margin improved by a strong 130 basis points to 50 percent. Our gross margin improvement continues to be driven by scale leverage from higher volume, base-business savings projects and business-mix shift towards higher gross margin health and beauty care products, including the addition of Wella.  

For the quarter, health and beauty care accounted for about 47 percent of the Company's sales. These improvements more than offset the impact of pricing adjustments to maintain good consumer values, commodity cost increases, primarily in pulp, resin, coffee and natural gas, ongoing restructuring charges, and the mix impact of rapid growth in developing markets.  

Marketing research and administrative expenses increased 170 basis points. Most of this increase was driven by Wella. The balance reflects support for our strong new product initiative program, which is driving top and bottom-line growth ahead of our targets.  

Overhead spending as a percent of sales was actually down. Operating cash flow in the quarter was more than 2.4 billion, about $460 million or 24 percent more than the same period last year. This was driven by strong earnings and solid improvements in working capital. Excluding the impact of Wella, receivables, inventories and payables days all improved versus the prior year with receivable days hitting a new record low.  

Free cash flow for the quarter was more than $1.7 billion. Capital spending for the quarter was 5.3 percent of sales but the fiscal year came in at 3.9 percent of sales, consistent with our long-term target of 4 percent. Free cash flow productivity was 126 percent for the quarter. This brings the fiscal year free cash flow productivity to 113 percent, well above our 90 percent target.  

We continue to invest in the business and at the same time return cash to our shareholders at an increased rate while staying within our target credit rating.  

For the June quarter, we repurchased a total of $1.7 billion in stock. We distributed dividends of just under 700 million. We bought the remaining stake of our fast-growing China business for a net of 1.8 billion.  

In summary, we've seen favorable business conditions for consumer products in most key markets. This contributed to strong, all-around performance at or above our long-term targets for the eighth consecutive quarter.  

Now, I will turn it over to John Goodwin for a discussion of the business unit results by segment.  

JOHN GOODWIN, TREASURER, PROCTER & GAMBLE: Thanks, Clayt. (indiscernible) delivered solid topline results with volume up 8 percent and sales up 7 percent to $3.5 billion. Foreign exchange helped sales growth by 3 percent. Pricing reduced sales by 3 percent, mainly due to adjustments in Western Europe laundry, to maintain pricing (indiscernible) versus hard discounters and in North America to improve the consumer value of Downy.  

Earnings increased 5 percent to 523 million. Earnings growth trailed sales growth due to increased marketing investments to support initiatives and geographic expansions. Margins were also affected by investments in laundry liquid capacity and higher supply-chain costs to meet strong demand for Swiffer and Mr. Clean Magic Eraser.  

Fabric care and homecare both grew volume high single digits for the quarter. Fabric care was led by its billion dollar brands with global volume for Tide up 8 percent and Ariel up 11 percent. In fabric conditioners, (indiscernible) grew newly 30 percent behind geographic expansion into Japan and strong performance in established European markets. In addition, our strong U.S. laundry business continued to grow behind the Gain Whitewater Fresh initiative and strong growth of Gain fabric enhancer. The past three months all-outlet value share for Gain in the U.S. is up more than to percentage points to nearly 10 percent.  

Homecare's results are driven by the strong initiative program on the Mr. Clean Brand and continued growth of Febreze. Both brands increased global volume over 25 percent for the quarter. Magic Eraser has helped Mr. Clean to more than double its value share in the U.S. hard surface cleaners category versus last year. Febreze growth was driven by marketing investments to build trial and consumption.  

In beauty care, the business unit posted strong topline growth. Organic volume grew 11 percent and total volume was up 41 percent, including the impact of Wella. Sales increased 43 percent to $4.4 billion, including a 3 percent gain from foreign exchange. Earnings for the quarter were $532 million, an increase of 14 percent versus year ago. Earnings growth was driven by higher volume, cost of goods savings and the addition of Wella. These were partially offset by marketing investments behind new product initiatives and geographic brand expansions.  

The femcare business had a very strong quarter with volume up 12 percent. Femcare all-outlet value share in the U.S. is up almost 3 percentage points to over 42 percent. Always' share of the U.S. pads market is now over 45 percent behind the continuous stream of initiatives. Tampax's share of tampons is over 46 percent and Tampax Pearl's share is now nearly 15 percent and still growing.  

Hair care organic volume was up 11 percent, the third consecutive quarter with double-digit organic volume growth despite the challenging competitive environment in North America. Japan's hair care volume was up more than 40 percent on the launch of Herbal Essences shampoo and conditioners in April.  

The Olay skincare business delivered another outstanding quarter with volume growth of over 20 percent. Olay Regenerist's latest innovation, eye-lifting serum launched in February, is adding almost 3 value share points to the U.S. franchise. In China, Olay value share of facial moisturizers has increased more than 6 points to 30 percent behind the Regenerist skincare lineup.  

Baby and family care delivered a very strong quarter. Unit volume was up 8 percent and sales were $2.7 billion, up 9 percent. A positive foreign exchange impact of 3 percent was partially offset by pricing changes of 2 percent. Net earnings were $201 million, an increase of 22 percent. The earnings increase was driven by volume growth and manufacturing cost savings, which more than offset pricing and higher costs, including marketing investments and commodity material increases.  

Baby care had an excellent quarter with global volume growth in the teens. In the U.S., Pampers diapers' past three months all-outlet value share was almost 28 percent, up 1 point versus a year ago behind continued growth of the Baby Stages line. Luvs' share has increased by more than 1 point to nearly 11 percent behind the improved distribution and product initiatives. In Latin America, the baby care business continued to deliver very strong results behind the success of a Pampers Basica value tier initiative. Volume for the quarter increased more than 20 percent in the region.  

Family care posted solid topline results for the quarter. Bounty U.S. past three months all-outlet share is nearly 41 percent, up a point versus year ago behind the new SKU format. We expect profitability to improve in family care as price increases go into effect this quarter.  

Now onto healthcare, which again delivered double-digit volume, sales and earnings growth. Unit volume increased 13 percent behind excellent growth of personal Healthcare and pharmaceuticals. Sales were $1.6 million, up 18 percent including mix improvement of 2 percent and foreign exchange help of 3 percent. Earnings for the quarter were $138 million, an increase of 25 percent. Strong earnings performance was driven by volume growth and cost savings that more than offset higher marketing investments to support initiatives.  

Personal Healthcare global volume was up more than 30 percent for the quarter on the strength of Prilosec OTC. Prilosec OTC value share of stomach remedies in the U.S. continues to grow and is now over 22 percent despite aggressive competitive advertising campaigns. Pharmaceutical shipments increased more than 20 percent on the continued strength of Actonel. Actonel volume was up more than 40 percent and its share of global biphosphonates for the treatment of osteoporosis is now almost 30 percent, an increase of over 6 points versus last year.  

Oral care global shipments growth was up mid single digits versus a very tough comparison period that included the launch of Crest Night Effects in North America. Crest volume continued to be very strong in China and across Europe. Crest (indiscernible) U.S. all-outlet value share was up more than 3 points versus year ago to 34 percent for the quarter, behind the Vivid White and Whitening Expressions initiatives. This is despite the significant increase in volume moved on promotion by a main competitor.  

Finally, snacks and beverages delivered strong results on the quarter. Unit volume increased 9 percent versus a soft base period due to the tornado that struck the Pringles manufacturing facility in May, 2003. Excluding the tornado impacts, snacks and beverages volume was up mid single digits on strong coffee and Pringles progress. Sales were $855 million, up 10 percent. Foreign exchange helped sales by 3 percent and was offset by negative mix of 2 percent. Earnings were $77 million, up 40 percent, driven by solid volume gains, marketing and overhead cost savings and the low base period.  

Folgers shipments were up mid single digits in the quarter behind the AromaSeal canister initiative and the initial shipments for Home Cafe. Folgers' leadership all-outlet value share held steady at 32 percent.  

Global volume for Pringles was up more than 20 percent for the quarter. Excluding the tornado impact, volume was up 9 percent. This growth is behind the continued success of the Pringles Snack Stacks and the launch of Pringles Dippers in Europe and the launch of Pringles Prints in the U.S. These new initiatives in customer specific executions that are helping us build strong in-store marketing events is a growing sales and profit for P&G and our customers. Pringles value share in the U.S. has been on a steady sequential increase and is now up 14.4 percent, up a point versus last year.  

That concludes the business unit review. Now, I will turn the call over to A.G. to review fiscal year results.  

A.G. LAFLEY, CEO, PROCTER & GAMBLE: We're pleased with the year that we've just completed. Organic volume was up 10 percent, sales up 19 percent, and we surpassed the 50 billion sales milestone. Organic sales were up 8 percent; that's equivalent to more than $1 billion above the top end of our long-term organic growth goal.  

Net earnings were 6.5 billion, up 25 percent versus reported results and up 13 percent versus prior-year core earnings. Earnings per share were up 14 percent. Our focus on cash is paying off. Free cash flow productivity was at 113 percent. This is strong performance and well above our long-term targets for the fourth year in a row.  

These results were broad-based. All five global business units delivered topline growth at or above Company targets. Four out of five delivered profit growth above long-term goals. All seven regions delivered topline growth at or above Company targets. All $14 billion brands increased volume and two more brands, Actonel and Head & Shoulders, joined the billion dollar club this year, bringing the total to 16. P&G brands grew share in categories accounting for more than two-thirds of sales. P&G grew volume at nine of the top ten customers.  

What's important here is that these results are being driven from P&G's core by broad-based organic growth. We successfully strengthened our beauty care portfolio with the acquisitions of Clairol and Wella without taking our eyes off the base business.  

The question, of course, is whether we can sustain strong growth. It's consistent long-term performance that counts, and consistent performance is not always easy. Growing P&G's sales 4 to 6 percent a year, for example, is roughly the equivalent of adding a business the size of our business in the UK, or a brand the size of Tide every year. We are mindful of this; we have a realistic understanding of the growth challenge. I'm convinced, however, that we can consistently deliver long-term targets year-in and year-out. Our existing businesses are healthy; they are leading innovation and delivering superior consumer value. They have rigorous cost and cash discipline and they are executing with excellence.  

We are committed to even greater consistency in all these areas. Innovation is particularly important. Nothing is more central to sustain growth than innovation that leads an industry and not only product innovations, but innovative design, innovative marketing, innovative in-store shopping experiences, innovation across the entire business. The companies and brands that lead innovation are the catalysts for growth. This has always been true and it is truer today than ever. Rising consumer expectations, relentless competition from traditional brands and retailer brands, a never-ending explosion of new technologies all combine to make innovation more important than ever. We know this and we are committed to being the innovation leader in our industry.  

Beyond these fundamentals, there are three other factors that underpin my confidence. Our strategies are working and there is still plenty of room to grow. Second, our core strengths, branding, innovation, go-to-market and scale are highly relevant to the challenges we face and to the opportunities ahead for our businesses. Third, the systemic and structural changes we've made over the past several years are really taking hold and delivering substantial benefits to the business.  

I won't go into depth on all of these today but I do want to touch on a couple of key points, the upside potential that exists in P&G's strategic focus areas and the benefits we are seeing from P&G's unique organizational structure, which is one of the key changes we've made over the last few years. P&G's strategies are working and there is still plenty of room to grow more. We are continuing to grow share in all of our core categories. Baby care now has more than a 35 percent global share, an increase of 3 percentage points in the past two years.  

We are strengthening our portfolio of leadership brands. P&G now has 16 billion dollar brands, up from just ten four years ago. Ten more brands have sales between 500 million and 1 billion. This is important because every time a brand joins the billion-dollar club, we mark a milestone towards our strategic goal of having global category leadership and the Number One global brand in every major category we compete in.  

We are also growing in the biggest countries. In fact, P&G volume and sales are growing in all of the Top Ten countries. We've demonstrated we can keep growing clearcut leadership positions in these core markets by being closer to consumers and customers, by leading innovation and delivering superior value and building stronger local organizations.  

We are also growing with winning customers. We're not only growing our business but we are helping retail partners grow theirs with new product innovation and new category creation that makes P&G a preferred supplier. As a result, we're growing volume at nine of the Top Ten retail customers.  

We are shifting our portfolio into faster-growing, higher-margin, more asset-efficient businesses with global leadership potential. Healthcare and beauty care now represent nearly half of the Company's sales, up from about a third just six years ago. We are driving very strong growth in key developing markets. We've built the capabilities to serve more of the world's consumers through products tailored to their needs. Equally important, we've delivered cost structures that provide consumers with good, everyday value and our business with strong returns. We will talk more about developing markets at our investment analyst conference in Boston on December 9. I hope you all will be able to join us.  

Even more important than this past performance, we still have lots of room to grow. Our global market shares today in core categories range from about 20 to 35 percent. In our most successful markets, we have shares that are nearly twice that level. So even though we are already global leaders in these categories, we are confident we can continue to expand our absolute share and margin of leadership.  

Beauty care is another big opportunity. This is a huge and growing business, nearly $170 billion worldwide. In fact, it's about four times the size of a businesslike fabric care. We have only about a 10 share in beauty care today. This is a business that plays to P&G's strengths, and we've added even more capability with Clairol and Wella. I am optimistic that we are well-positioned for strong growth in beauty.  

In healthcare, we've strong growing franchises in Crest, IAMS and Prilosec OTC. However, we've only scratched the surface with Actonel, our first billion-dollar pharma brand, and we are optimistic about our pipeline, particularly Entrenza (ph). Western Europe turned around nicely and we're growing market share in categories representing about 80 percent of sales. But we're still not back to peak share levels in two core categories. We are also substantially underdeveloped in health and beauty care in Western Europe. This is now the world's largest consumer market and we're committed to achieving leadership shares in every major P&G category there.  

Developing markets, as I mentioned a moment ago, are another big opportunity. They have the potential to be disproportionate engines of growth for P&G in the next several years. We've doubled our business in markets like Russia and China over the past three years. Still, despite this impressive growth, developing markets represent only about 20 percent of P&G's business, versus 25 to 45 percent for key competitors. Clearly, there's lots of room to grow.  

There are also important opportunities for bottom-line growth as well. We continue to leverage P&G's scale in all parts of our business. We are able to combine the benefits of our unique organization structure with relentless focus on cost and cash. This gives us strong potential to continue expanding margins for years to come. The key point here is that the strategies we put in place three years ago are delivering. There are considerable upside opportunities in all of our strategic focus areas and the fundamental strengths that are at the heart of our business health today are the strengths we believe will enable us to capture upside opportunities in the years head.  

The other point I want to emphasize today is the impact our organization structure is having on P&G performance. Our structure gives us the ability to capture the benefits of focused, smaller competitors through dedicated global business units while still being able to leverage the scale benefits and go-to-market capability of a $50 billion company. Global business units like oral care, baby care or beauty care are developing clearer, better, long-term growth strategies. They are identifying common consumer needs and quickly expanding brands and product innovations around the world. This has helped us step up the pace and success rate of innovation.  

The local market development organizations focus like a laser on local consumers and local customers. This enables us to take full advantage of the innovation pipeline being built by the GBUs. As a result, we're building sales and market share across categories and geographies.  

We are also reaping important scale benefits from global business services, our Worldwide Shared Services organization. GBS is delivering better service and technology and best-in-class costs to P&G businesses. When you multiply these benefits across categories, markets and trade channels, you begin to see the advantages our structure creates. We can compete on multiple fronts without spreading ourselves to thinly. We can deliver a higher frequency of initiative launches across multiple markets. We can plan long-term globally while focusing locally on excellence of execution every single day. In short, we've reaped the benefits of global scale while acting like a local company everywhere we compete. We now have enough experience with this structure to take fuller advantage of these benefits, and we are.  

I want to close on just one final point. As I said at the outset, we understand the magnitude of the growth challenge that we face year after year. I assure you, we are guarding against complacency and complexity. We will continue to have an underdog mentality; we will keep P&G's business simple and focused on the few things required to win with consumers and customers. But this combination of strategies that are working, significant upside opportunity, fundamental strengths that are creating advantage and driving growth and the unique structure that allows us to be global and local at the same time is at the heart of why I believe P&G can reliably, consistently deliver the growth we've committed to.  

With that, I will turn it over to Clayt for comments on Wella and future guidance. Clayt?  

CLAYT DALEY: (indiscernible). First, an update on Wella in line with our previous guidance. Wella results came in slightly dilutive for the quarter and about neutral for the fiscal year. As you may know from recent announcements, the domination of profit transfer agreement between P&G and Wella has been in effect since June 9th. This allows us to move more swiftly with the collaboration process and will allow our Wella management team to stay focused on the business. We are making progress against the synergy objective of EUR300 million by the end of Year Three. In January, P&G started to license Wella's consumer retail business and we've completed the transfer in about 70 percent of the countries.  

In February, we concluded a joint purchasing agreement leveraging P&G and Wella's combined scale for lower input costs in the areas of cost of goods sold, marketing and other expenses. In July, we announced the combination of P&G and Wella's professional and prestige beauty business under Heiner Gertner's (ph) leadership, leveraging Wella and P&G expertise to drive top and bottom-line growth in these always strongly-performing businesses. Last week, we announced the first round of supply-chain consolidations. This will eliminate duplication and maximize the combined scale of Wella and P&G manufacturing logistics.  

As we learn more about Wella's capabilities and the opportunities for synergies, we see a higher proportion of savings projects being sourced from P&G. We are streamlining more of P&G's operations than originally foreseen. This has no impact on the acquisition economics, which are cash flow-based. However, it does result in a higher amount of restructuring cost going through the income statement instead of the opening balance sheet of Wella. We are covering these costs as part of our 150 to $200 million, which we set aside each year at the corporate level for ongoing restructuring projects. Excluding these one-time restructuring costs, Wella's impact on fiscal year 2005 will be about neutral.  

We have made a conscious choice to retain more of Wella's go-to-market capability and invest in advertising behind the Wella brand for topline growth. As you may have seen from last week's Wella press release, the business is growing nicely despite a strong competitive environment. This reflects our focus on maintaining a good balance between Wella's topline growth and more fully realizing cost synergies.  

Now, for overall guidance on the year and the September quarter. Note that as of fiscal year 2005, we are reporting earnings exclusively on a reported bases with ongoing restructuring charges incorporated in our operating results for the current year as well as the base period of 2004. Now, to the numbers. For fiscal year 2005, we remain confident in our ability to deliver against our long-term goals for the fourth year in succession despite the very strong base period. We expect topline growth towards the upper end of our long-term target range with volume up 6 to 7 percent and sales growth of 5 to 6 percent. This is despite exceptional topline growth in the base period. 2004-5 sales will be driven by continued base-business strength and a particularly strong initiative pipeline. The lost sales from the juice divestiture, which actually closed yesterday, are expected to be offset by the additional Wella sales. We have two more months before we lap the acquisition in September.  

Price mix it expected to be slightly negative, based on continuing strong growth in developing markets. Based on relative stability and currency rates, we anticipate no significant FX impact on sales for the total fiscal year.  

On earnings per share for fiscal 2005, we are comfortable with the top end of the current range of analyst estimates. The juice divestiture is about neutral to the fiscal year, as the divestiture's gain in the first quarter will be roughly offset by lost profit (inaudible) contribution over the balance of the fiscal year. Operating margins are expected to expand about 60 to 80 basis point. We anticipate this expansion will come primarily from Wella costs of goods sold.  

The tax rate for the Company is expected to decline year-over-year by at least 20 basis points, possibly more. This will bring the average corporate tax rate to 30.5 percent or less. This is behind continued strong business growth and lower taxed regions.  

Now, as you may be aware, a number of tax initiatives are currently being considered in the U.S. Congress. As always, we will carefully review the resulting opportunities. If passed, one of the initiatives, the Homeland Investment Act, could present an attractive opportunity. However, until the legislation comes out of Joint Congressional Committee, it is simply too early to estimate the impact this would have on fiscal 2005 EPS. We will update you as the legislation becomes clearer.  

As we review the pipeline of initiatives and the base year comparisons, we expect earnings growth will be fairly balanced between the front and the back halves of the fiscal year.  

Now, to the July/September quarter -- we expect to continue the strong top and bottom-line momentum at or above our long-term targets. Volume and sales are projected to be up low double digits, including 4 to 5 percent from acquisitions and divestitures. At current rates, foreign exchange is expected to have a 2 or 3 percent positive impact on sales. Organic sales growth should be around 4 to 6 percent. The growth comes on top of an extraordinarily strong base period where we delivered double-digit, year-over-year growth behind a number of initiative launches, including of course the Prilosec OTC launch, Crest Whitening Expressions, Mr. Clean Magic Eraser, Cascade 2-in-1 Action Pacs and Folgers AromaSeal. The projected growth on top of such a strong base is a clear illustration of our ability to launch and leverage initiatives beyond the first year.  

In addition, our innovation pipeline continues to be robust. New initiatives in the quarter include Tide with a Touch of Downy, Downy Simple Pleasures, Mr. Clean Eraser Duo, Pampers (indiscernible), Olay Moisture Rinse, IAMS palatability upgrade and LaCoste (ph) with a touch of pink. This is particularly robust initiative (indiscernible) designed to continue topline momentum throughout this year.  

Turning to the bottom-line, we should deliver another quarter of double-digit EPS growth. The first quarter will include the impact of the juice divestiture, which should be about 2 cents a share. With this, we are raising our guidance to the upper end of the current analyst estimates. Once again, despite an exceptionally strong base period, including the launch of Prilosec, we are pleased with the continued progress of the business.  

Now, that concludes the business comments for the quarter. As you know, this discussion has included a number of forward-looking statements. If you will refer to our most recent 8 and 10-K reports, you will see a discussion of factors that could cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from these projections.  

As required by Regulation G, we need to make you aware that, during the call, we made a number of references to non-GAAP measures. Management believes these measures provide our investors valuable information on the underlying growth trends of our business. The only difference between reported and core amounts is the restructuring charges in the base period. Organic refers to reported results, excluding the impact of foreign exchange and acquisitions and divestitures, where applicable. Free cash flow represents operating cash flow less capital expenditures. We have posted on our Web site,  www.PG.com, a full reconciliation of non-GAAP measures to U.S. GAAP to provide additional clarification.  

Now, A.G., John and I would be happy to open up the call for your questions.  

OPERATOR: Thank you, sir. The question-and-answer session will be conducted electronically today. (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS). Wendy Nicholson with Smith Barney.  

WENDY NICHOLSON, ANALYST, SMITH BARNEY CITIGROUP: Good morning. My first question relates to the guidance you just gave and I just want to make sure I'm thinking about things on an apples-to-apples basis. You said core volume growth 4 to 6 percent for the first quarter and then I think 6 to 7 percent for the year but if I'm not mistaken, your comps on a core volume basis get tougher. So, is it just your new product pipeline?  

CLAYT DALEY: That's pretty much it.  

WENDY NICHOLSON: Is Entrenza (ph) built into that forecast?  

CLAYT DALEY: No, we don't expect Entrenza (ph) to launch during the current fiscal year.  

WENDY NICHOLSON: Can you talk about healthcare just generally? Now that we are anniversarying Prilosec, I think some people are a little bit concerned that that core volume growth may slow dramatically post the anniversarying of the launch in September. What kind of growth should we be looking for in that business?  

A.G. LAFLEY: Wendy, I think we're going to see continued strong growth and the reason is, I would say, three-fold. One is, we still have, on our launch and leverage program, we still have a lot of trial upside on several of these initiatives, including Prilosec. But we have a lot of trial upside on our oral care initiatives; we have trial upside on our other personal healthcare initiatives. As I've said before, Actonel is still treating a disease that is under-diagnosed, under-treated and unfortunately, even when women go on Actonel or other biphosphonate prescriptions, the compliance isn't as good as it could be, so there's lots of opportunity there.  

We are looking ahead to a strong year in pets, health and nutrition. The first quarter, which is up against a very strong base, will be mid single digits growth despite Prilosec in the base period, but for the year, we think it's going to be a pretty strong program.  

I guess the second thing I would say is the pipeline and innovation flow -- that's new innovations -- is pretty robust across healthcare.  

The third thing I would say is, you have to remember, we are in markets that grow faster. Just the pure growth rate of some of these markets, like the biphosphonate market, is phenomenal. So, the combination of higher market growth rate, a pretty robust pipeline of new innovation and initiatives and a lot of opportunity to continue to drive the awareness trial in conversion of existing initiatives makes healthcare look pretty promising in the year ahead.  

WENDY NICHOLSON: Is it fair to say that we should see incremental margin expansion there because we're through sort of the heavy lifting of the Year One advertising?  

CLAYT DALEY: Definitely.  

WENDY NICHOLSON: My last question I guess, Clayt, is the thing you mentioned about the restructuring charges being sort of skewed towards the hair care business and coming on the Wella side -- I guess my question is, is there a risk that the spending -- because you probably still have other projects in other parts of the business end up being bigger than 150 to $200 million this year or are you just pacing your projects, saying this is -- (multiple speakers) -- Wella?  

CLAYT DALEY: No, that's a good question. We have capacity inside that 150 to 200 to do what we need to do on the P&G side of Wella, as well as do the projects in the other businesses, because we don't want to delay good projects in the other businesses. Now, that clearly could push us towards the upper end of that range.  

WENDY NICHOLSON: But that's all built into the forecast?  

JOHN GOODWIN: That's all factored in.  

OPERATOR: Amy Chasen with Goldman Sachs.  

AMY CHASEN, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS & CO.: A.G. -- well, actually first before I ask that, can you just tell us -- give us some idea in the quarter of how each of the developing regions did? You mentioned Asia but I didn't hear you mention anything about Central and Eastern Europe.  

A.G. LAFLEY: Yes. In all cases, they were up strong double digits on the topline and strong double digits on the bottom-line. You know, we had -- I think you were in China fairly recently, so many of you had a chance to see what's happening in China. You know, even with the moderation in the economy that the government has been trying to dial in over last several months, we haven't seen any impact on consumer markets. Frankly, we didn't expect to see much impact on consumer markets, so China has continued to be very robust.  

Oxyon, which is, you know, Oxyon, (indiscernible) Asia in India for us, very strong double-digit top and bottom-line growth, probably the best year we've had there ever. We are working off a relatively smaller base, I think as you know. I think we're starting to get some real traction in several of the markets where P&G was relatively small. Our organizations are stronger and maturing and now almost all led by locals leaders. We are building out -- we've been building out the core categories and there's just a lot of opportunity in the core categories.  

Then finally, Central and Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa, they just had a second, very strong year in a row. We've talked about Russia before, which doubled in three years, but we've got strong performance really across the board in those markets, very strong double-digit topline growth and strong bottom-line growth.  

Here's the thing, Amy. If you -- there isn't a lot of difference. You know, China used to stand way out. There isn't a lot of difference between the China trends and the AAII and SEMIA trends now. In other words, they are all going really strong. As I've tried to point out before, I think we are at a tipping point because we had to get our capital structure right, meaning a much leaner capital structure, in some cases (indiscernible) contract. The second thing we had to do was get our cost structure right, and we've made a major effort on cost innovation over the last two to three years. The third thing is we had to really understand consumer needs and desires because we were selling a number of our brands for infrequent usage, occasional usage, and now the focus is on daily usage. It's not just affordability; it's the design of the product, the design of the package, and the presentation of the line to consumers.  

Again, you may remember what we've done in laundry detergent or old care in China -- those are just two handy examples where we've been able to present a line of products that appeals to very low income rural consumers on the one hand all the way up to the relatively more affluent urban consumers. But it's been that combination of strategy, structure, systems and focus that's building our capability in developing markets.  

AMY CHASEN: Great. Just one broader question as you think about FY '05 -- can you talk a little bit about what some of the swing factors may be to allow you to either beat this current guidance or miss the current guidance, which doesn't seem likely? I guess where I'm coming from is that, as we move on in time, it doesn't really seem like it's getting harder for you guys, even though the comps keep getting more difficult. So can you talk a little bit about that as well?  

CLAYT DALEY: Well, I think that there's no doubt that we are up against a very difficult base period, and that is certainly a factor that will influence the degree of upside. Obviously, the other factors in the marketplace are -- it looks like the pricing that we've implemented in tissue and pet health and coffee looks like it's going to go through, which is very important to this year. I think the other factor is, of course, that we've got a very full pipeline of initiatives. Our ability to launch and leverage those initiatives effectively throughout the year, because we have good balance throughout the year, is the other swing factor that I see. There's always the things that we can't control; there's always -- while their raw material and input costs side at this point looks like it's well under control and built into our financial plan, there's always a component there or a component of currency that's an uncertainty.  

OPERATOR: Bill Becarillo (ph) with Morgan Stanley.  

BILL BECARILLO, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: I was wondering if you can talk about some of your geographic performance in terms of North America and Western Europe. Over the past couple of weeks, we've heard a number of large retailers and also consumer product companies talk about the slowdown in the consumer in the second half of June and in July. Are you seeing, in any of your categories or any channels, any of this slowdown in recent weeks -- in North America first and then in West Europe second?  

A.G. LAFLEY: Bill, I'm going to take a broader time period and then we will move in on the closer time period. But the short answer is, not really. Okay, the short answer is not really. I will be the first to tell you that there is fluctuation in daily orders; there's even fluctuation in weekly orders. But we haven't seen anything that's a major trend.  

I will start broadly in the region and then comment maybe country-by-country. I do think, in some channels at a couple of retailers in the U.S., there is some evidence that higher gasoline prices are impacting the basket, okay? In other words, especially lowest-income consumers who are on relatively fixed budgets and fixed incomes may be trading off some extra dollars that go into the gas tank in the basket. But we are not seeing a broad impact across our business because, for the most part, while not every product and every brand is growing share, our market shares continue to grow pretty robustly and their unit volume continues to grow. We don't think that's surprising. Our recollection from the '70s is that consumers are going to make trade-offs in the choices that they make. Thankfully, a lot of what we sell is essential; it's not highly discretionary, and I think that helps us.  

Turning to Western Europe, the volume size and growth rate of markets has been pretty stable over time. There has been some softening in local currency value but what that's showing I think is a trend that's been ongoing for several years and that is simply the shift to hard discounters and soft discounters. There's no doubt that, in Western Europe, certainly continental Europe, the fastest-growing channels are soft and hard discounters. But again, we've been building our shares and frankly, even in markets like Germany where albeit very strong and several soft discounters are strong, we have been able to demonstrate that we can build our shares and take market share from all the private label offerings. I think that's important, because that means we are delivering superior consumer value, even if our pricing is higher.  

I guess the last thing I would say is, you know, there's no doubt that the German economy is a little bit softer. I don't think that should be a surprise to anybody. It has been softening over time and it's been a difficult economy but we've been focused on building out our business, on delivering superior consumer value, on working closely with the retailers who compete against the hard discounters so we can create a better shopping experience and a better consumer value for their shoppers, who are our consumers.  

I think you see, in a couple of our businesses --I guess the last thing I would say is that there is some shift in the competitive mix but again, that's not new. Businesses like some of the tissue towel business and some of the laundry business in some countries, our stiffest competition is now coming more from the private label side than it is from the branded side.  

BILL BECARILLO: Then as you look in the last six weeks, there's also saying North America no change in terms of consumers trading down or shifts between value, everything with the same secular trends -- (multiple speakers) -- you've been seeing.  

A.G. LAFLEY: Yes. I mean, our July was pretty good and I just don't have market shares and the rest of it and won't have it for awhile, so I won't have the diagnostics. But our market size is up in health care and the big beauty care categories like skincare, so that's good.  

I think it comes back to one of the things we are definitely benefiting from is the balance in our portfolio. About half of our business is household; about half of our business is health and beauty care. So we can weather little shocks that occur in a business like tissue towel for six months or so, or we can weather some shocks in coffee and survive it. I think that's a real strength of our portfolio and it's a strength of our geographic diversification, which is better now than it has ever been.  

OPERATOR: Chris Ferrara with Merrill Lynch.  

CHRIS FERRARA, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: I just wanted to go a little bit further on that question earlier and just ask what of your product lines are more sensitive to the consumer than others? Is there a way to sort of draw broad conclusions on that?  

A.G. LAFLEY: Well, I think, Chris, they are all sensitive to the consumer. It's just a different value equation, you know, when you are in fine fragrance or prestige skincare than when you are buying bath tissue, all right? Clearly, the more price-sensitive and promotion-sensitive categories are the categories like the ones I mentioned. Historically and today still, it's the bath tissue kind of business; it's the coffee kind of business; it's the laundry business in some markets actually more so in some Western European markets than in the U.S. Diapers can be; the low and mid-end diaper range can be. What we do, I think as you know, is we try to build out our mid and premium-range diapers. One of the reasons we've been successful the last several years in baby diapers is we've built out this whole line of premium-taped diapers and baby stage of development. We've built out value-added products in laundry; we've built value-added products in bath and we are leading innovation again in coffees. In the end, that's what really matters is understanding the needs and wants of these consumers and innovating, even in relatively low price points, businesses in the way that gets her more value, that she appreciates and that drives her purchase decisions and in the end drives her loyalty.  

CHRIS FERRARA: I got it. I just wanted to go back on Wella thing. I was wondering, could you give a little bit more detail on the charges expected for Wella? Is that why the beauty care margins sequentially, on a year-over-year basis actually, dropped little bit more than probably I had expected?  

CLAYT DALEY: Well, really if you are talking about fiscal '04, there was very little impact in fiscal '04 of restructuring for Wella. There was certainly a significant impact of Wella by itself. Okay? It's more or less because Wella's margin is about half of P&G's margin in beauty care. So we injected roughly $3 billion worth of sales into that segment at a margin half of what the P&G business earns.  

A.G. LAFLEY: Obviously, we're going to build that margin back over time to P&G levels.  

CLAYT DALEY: If you take the $300 million -- EUR300 million in synergies that we expect to get by the end of Year Three, you'll see that margin (indiscernible). Of course, that won't all fall against the Wella products; a lot of that synergy will fall against the P&G side. But at the end of the day, it doesn't matter; a lot of it will fall in the beauty care segment.  

CHRIS FERRARA: I'm sorry, I just meant why in Q4 they declined year-over-year a little bit more than they had Q3 and Q2 in beauty care.  

CLAYT DALEY: Q4?  

A.G. LAFLEY: I think the main reason is we had a series of initiatives and we had some major initiatives in the second half that carried into the fourth quarter. We were in the introductory period, so we had both the consumer and trade portions of the introduction investment. But those last for 6 to 12 months, and then we move to (indiscernible) support.  

CLAYT DALEY: Again, Wella is the biggest factor and although it doesn't necessarily explain the difference between Q4/Q3, I think A.G. is on the right point there.  

OPERATOR: CS First Boston, Lauren Lieberman.  

LAUREN LIEBERMAN, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE FIRST BOSTON: Good morning. I wanted to first follow up on Western Europe. You know, a number of other consumer companies have made pretty significant and specific statements about Western Europe being more difficult and you know we've been hearing it the last couple of quarters, but it seems to be getting worse for everyone but not for you. So I just wonder if you could shed on any light on why and if, in the second half of the year, as FX becomes less of a benefit, if things also become a little bit more challenging for you in Western Europe.  

A.G. LAFLEY: Yes. I mean, we are all facing the same macroeconomic issues. There's no doubt about that. We are all facing the same challenges from hard and soft discounters and from private label brands. There's no doubt about that. We are all looking at consumers who, if you sort of compare on an apples-to-apples basis, are not as affluent as U.S. consumers. So, we are all facing those same issues.  

I think what we've been able to do is we've dramatically improved our cost structure in Western Europe over the last several years; there's no doubt about that. That has helped us keep our pricing at a level that's more competitive, that's sharper and that offers a better consumer value day in and day out. I think there's no doubt that we've been leading innovation across most of our core businesses. We've certainly been leading innovation in baby care, and our baby care share is well above 50 and has grown -- I forget what it was -- 3.5 share points over the last couple of years. There's no doubt that we are back leading innovation in femcare care and that market share is comfortably above 50 again. There's no doubt that we've been leading innovation and actually expanding in hair care, first in shampoo and treatments and we've been building share there. We've also been building share in our laundry business. So all of our four core categories have been building market share, because I think we've strengthened the brand positions, we are marketing them better, and we are leading innovation on them.  

The other thing I would say is we are the only company that I know of in Western Europe that operates in our kind of structure, so we benefit from highly focused customer teams, right, so we have a team, a P&G team working with Metro in Germany and a P&G team working with Carrefour in France and a P&G team working with Tesco in the UK and we have these country MDOs, so we're getting very good focus on the consumer, the retailer and the opportunities in the local market at the local retailer from our MDO organization. They don't have to worry about the whole flow of innovation brand products, which comes from the GBUs. I think this it is a great example. A market like Western Europe is a great example of the potential power of our organization structure, because that division of labor and that collaboration seems to really be working for us. We don't have as much overlap; we don't have as much duplication; we don't seem to slow down either the decision-making or the execution.  

But we -- again, when I think about Western Europe, yes, the growth rates are slower. Yes, the composition of the trade may be a little tougher, but it is still the largest fast-moving consumer products market in the world, okay, and there's still a lot of upside for us in that market.  

LAUREN LIEBERMAN: I guess just one more on beauty care -- the progression -- I'm curious if the progression of margins through the year (indiscernible) Wella. How quickly do we start to see some margin expansion with some of those structurings, supply chain work just year-over-year comparisons you've already got a lower margin built in?  

CLAYT DALEY: I think what we discussed earlier was that, on operating our kind of -- excluding restructuring cost basis for next year, Wella is going to continue to be nondilutive. But what we also said is we're very much focused on topline for Wella and have retained a lot of Wella's go-to-market capability in particularly in Latin America and Eastern Europe. We are putting and marketing spending behind the Wella brand, particularly the Wella retail brands, that we believed needed more marketing support. So actually, what I think that's going to result in is hopefully more topline growth and not actually as much margin expansion in fiscal '05 as we probably will see in future years when more of the synergies come through. So, I guess what I'm saying is we are being more topline focused, frankly, in fiscal '05 than synergy focused. On the other hand, we are, of course, implementing, as I went through, a whole array of synergy projects in order to bring those in as well. (multiple speakers).  

A.G. LAFLEY: If I may just comment on two things? One is this Wella capability enables us to get into channels and be stronger in channels that P&G didn't cover or didn't cover very extensively, so we will be in drug and pharmacy and perfumeries. So on the one hand, Clayt is dead right; we will be able to support the Wella brands in a stronger fashion. On the other hand, we are hoping we will also be able to bring the appropriate P&G brands right behind the Wella brands into those channels. We are also getting the benefit of stronger coverage in geographies where we were relatively weaker. Remember, we had a very complementary -- one of the reasons why Wella was so attractive to us was that the geographies they were strong in were complementary to the geographies we are strong in. So for example, in Latin America and in Central and Eastern Europe, Wella is very strong, so we will be able to bring our range of beauty care products and probably healthcare products into those channels.  

I guess the last thing I would say is, you know, this is an issue of balance, balance and continuous adjustment. We already run a pretty strong beauty care margin, and we think the biggest opportunity for our beauty care business in '05 is to expand our topline and maintain or modestly improve the strong margin that we already have.  

LAUREN LIEBERMAN: Okay. Any sense for what are the P&G brands -- let me start again actually. Speaking about the broader hair care portfolio now, do any of the U.S. brands (indiscernible) been Clairol, one time may be hidden gems but haven't really played out that way become less interesting now that you've got the Wella portfolio? Then, any sense of which of the P&G brands belong in these other channels that you now have access to via Wella?  

CLAYT DALEY: Mostly there's not much duplication because Wella's retail business is mostly styling and to a degree color. (multiple speakers) -- complementary.  

A.G. LAFLEY: Lauren, we are always (indiscernible) through our brand portfolios in every business. In the end, we're going to go with the brands that consumers buy, purchase on a regular basis -- get a great usage experience and buy on a regular basis. But one of the things we liked about the three portfolios is it sure didn't look like there was a lot of overlap. Will every brand make it? That would be a tough (indiscernible). Likely, some of those brands are not going to make it. Will we find a few gems? We think we will. We think we will. Herbal Essences is just doing phenomenally outside the U.S.; in almost every market we tested in it appeals to consumers. We've just restaged Aussie, which you might have seen, in U.S. stores. We are very hopeful about the Aussie styling position. So we think we've got a number of gems. We're going to just take our time and sort through them one that time, make sure we understand who the target market is, who the prime prospect is, make sure the brand positioning and equity is designed to appeal to that target, and then flow the right kind of products and initiatives to that brand and see whether we have a proposition that's a good value for consumers.  

OPERATOR: (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS). Andrew Mcquilling with UBS.  

ANDREW MCQUILLING, ANALYST, UBS WARBURG: Good morning. A.G., I was hoping you could expand on your detergent strategy in Western Europe. so detergents overall, pricing down 3. How big was the price decline in Western Europe? What are the specifics that you're using in competing against all these private-label? What types of brands, what type of price declines?  

A.G. LAFLEY: Okay. Andrew, I think the simple way to think about our goal in Western Europe is we have leadership in laundry detergent but I think, as you know, our share is modest -- relatively modest, you know, low 30s versus what we've achieved in other major, developed markets like Canada or the U.S. or even Mexico. So, we think there's a lot of upside. In fact, in some markets in Europe, we already have significantly higher market shares. So the first thing is sort of our goal or our expectation.  

The second thing, in terms of strategy, the strategy is not that different from the strategy that we employ in Japan or U.S. or Canada. We are on a portfolio strategy. We are in the process of trying to determine what's the right size and shape and offerings in our portfolio. I think you know, we introduced Mr. Clean detergent in Germany. The reason we did that was to explore two opportunities. One is the opportunity in the so-called mid-value segment but more importantly is the opportunity that Mr. Clean might represent, as a brand, that could stand for good value across a line of laundry and cleaning products.  

The third thing, of course, is we want to be the leaders in innovation in those markets.  

The fourth thing is we want to be offering superior consumer value. As I said earlier, in countries where it's clear that the most vigorous competition is coming from hard discounters and their private-label brands, we have adjusted our pricing so that the gap -- we are still priced well above them but we've narrowed the gap so it represents a good value for more consumers. It's really no more -- no fancier than that. We're just adjusting the price/value relationship; we're trying to deliver more value with better products and more innovation more consistently, and we're trying to put together a portfolio of brands that meet all consumers' needs.  

You know, if look at Western Europe over the last -- in the last month or so, P&G brands are growing at about the rate of the retail brands, which are our fastest-growing competitor. Now, we would obviously like to be growing faster than they are, but this indicates that the totality of our offering is pretty competitive.  

ANDREW MCQUILLING: A.G., should I think about that price decline for the overall detergent business -- are you looking for that to continue for at least the next three or four quarters?  

A.G. LAFLEY: I think it will be -- we are always adjusting. We are always adjusting and we're always trying to find the right balance.  

CLAYT DALEY: I don't it will necessarily be that large. Consider some factors in there, like a price reduction on Swiffer WetJet and some things that will annualize.  

ANDREW MCQUILLING: Terrific. If I could, one more? Just the gross margin pressure in the June quarter, due to raw material cost increases on a gross basis, understanding you're doing a good job of offsetting, how big was the raw material cost pressure in June and what are you looking for in September?  

CLAYT DALEY: I think --.  

A.G. LAFLEY: No change.  

CLAYT DALEY: There's really not much change in July/September. Here's the way I think about it is, particularly in some of these areas where we've raised prices, raw material costs, energy costs went up throughout last fiscal year and therefore tend to be at a relatively high level in the April/June quarter and there wasn't any pricing yet that had come in to offset that. Now, as we move into July/September, there really hasn't been a lot of change in those costs but now we're starting to get a little bit of pricing that will come in in the current quarter but really, we won't get that fully implemented until the next quarter.  

ANDREW MCQUILLING: Understood. I guess, in the June quarter, was raw material cost pressure, was it 160 basis points in the gross margin? 100 basis -- (multiple speakers)?  

CLAYT DALEY: I think that's high.  

A.G. LAFLEY: We will doublecheck them.  

ANDREW MCQUILLING: No worries but thank you, obviously. Nice quarter.  

OPERATOR: Joe Altobello with CIBC World Markets.  

JOE ALTOBELLO, ANALYST, CIBC WORLD MARKETS: Just looking forward to '05, are you guys expecting similar growth rates in developing markets as you saw in fiscal '04, which I think was probably high teens or 20 percent or so?  

CLAYT DALEY: That would be very tough. Obviously, there's a base period that went up. I think we would expect to continue to grow somewhere in the teens but we couldn't project another 20.  

JOE ALTOBELLO: So if you assume let's say 15 percent growth, you are looking at call it 3 percent growth for developed markets essentially?  

CLAYT DALEY: Well, that would be roughly -- that would get you probably to the lower end, right? So -- (multiple speakers).  

JOE ALTOBELLO: Okay, so slightly higher than that I guess.  

A.G. LAFLEY: It really depends. I mean, China had a huge year, and it has had three huge years in a row. Markets like AAI could continue at a pretty good pace for awhile. I think it depends on the starting point and it depends on the base period, but we are obviously counting on them for double-digit growth. (multiple speakers).  

CLAYT DALEY: (Multiple Speakers) -- somewhere in the low teens would be reasonable to project right now.  

JOE ALTOBELLO: Okay. In terms of the model, just for my purposes, share repurchases fiscal '04, about $4 billion. Should we expect that same rate in '05, assuming no meaningful acquisitions?  

CLAYT DALEY: With no meaningful acquisitions, it might be a little bit less than that but we are going to -- let me just restate our policy. Our share repurchase policy is we'd buyback stock option grant and that tends to create about a $1 billion repurchase as a baseline. Then we take a look at the cash flow, as it unfolds throughout the year and we make decisions on a quarterly basis -- so I would hope that we would generate enough cash flow so that we could continue to keep the share repurchase at relatively high level, barring any kind of major acquisition but of course, stay within our target credit rating because we want to maintain our AA credit.  

OPERATOR: Connie Maneaty with Prudential.  

CONNIE MANEATY, ANALYST, PRUDENTIAL EQUITY GROUP: Good morning. Could you discuss why the healthcare volumes slowed (ph)? I mean 13 percent was great volume, but it was the lightest in eight quarters and you haven't anniversary to Prilosec yet.  

JOHN GOODWIN: Connie, there was a strong oral-care base period. We had the Crest Night Effects introduction that was in the base. I think we mentioned it during the call, so that clipped the year-over-year growth rate a little bit.  

CONNIE MANEATY: Did oral care decline in all of the other groups?  

JOHN GOODWIN: No, it didn't decline. I think it is mid single digits was the growth.  

A.G. LAFLEY: Actually, our oral care shares were quite strong. (multiple speakers) -- we just had -- sometimes you ship in and you ship in and part of that ship-in is filling the distribution pipeline and getting enough inventory on the shelf and on display, and we just had a launch in the base period.  

CONNIE MANEATY: Would you say, then, that the full-year volume growth is more indicative of how healthcare is going to perform -- (multiple speakers) -- future rather than the fourth quarter?  

JOHN GOODWIN: We had Prilosec last year though, Connie, so we will be annualizing that throughout the whole of the next fiscal year. So, we're going to have that significant uplift like we've had throughout the whole of '04 -- 03, '04.  

CONNIE MANEATY: Could you discuss what your options are with the change of control agreement with Aventis? Has the clock started taking on that yet?  

CLAYT DALEY: Well, I can't get into details on that because that contract is confidential. Obviously, nothing happens until that closes, all right? While they are in the process of doing that, that hasn't happened yet -- so at which point they close when we will determine what options we may want to pursue.  

CONNIE MANEATY: (indiscernible) say what your range of options include?  

CLAYT DALEY: Other than to say I think you can imagine that most of these contracts, you have change-of-control provisions, and I would say the change-of-control provisions in this contract are pretty normal for this industry.  

CONNIE MANEATY: Okay. One final question -- in fiscal '03, you announced a couple of outsourcing agreements, one on data services, maybe another one in HR. They were supposed to be neutral to fiscal '04 earnings but accretive in '05. Can you give us some indication of how that's playing out and the expense to which these will be accretive?  

CLAYT DALEY: Well, they are going to be accretive in fiscal '05 because they are contractual. We literally have contracts with HP and with IBM in particular, as well as Jones Lang LaSalle and Sykes that generate contractually-agreed savings. So, they are definitely going to come through in this fiscal year. I don't think we've quantified those exactly but they are all headed directionally right.  

CONNIE MANEATY: The HP agreement, though, wasn't that sort of like a $3 billion, 10-year agreement -- (multiple speakers) -- that by 10 and so 300 million in savings is more or less --.  

CLAYT DALEY: No, I think that was the gross value of the contract, okay, as opposed to the savings.  

CONNIE MANEATY: So the savings would be less than the contract?  

CLAYT DALEY: Yes, substantially but it's a nice little contributor to ongoing overhead cost reduction.  

CONNIE MANEATY: A.G., maybe you could answer -- how does this play into reducing complexity for P&G?  

A.G. LAFLEY: Which Connie?  

CONNIE MANEATY: The outsourcing agreement?  

A.G. LAFLEY: Oh, it's been huge because basically they focus on -- our partners handle transactional piece of the business, transactional support for both MBOs and the GBUs and we focus on innovation, relevant innovation in IT and systems with them, and we focus on where we can add value, where we uniquely add value. So it's been huge part of simplification for us.  

If you step back and think about our business, 50-plus billion and yet four core categories are well over half of our sales and a bit more than that of our profits, these $16 billion brands are 60-plus percent of our business. It really is not that complex a business to operate and with this organization structure, with the MDOs very focused on a consumer in the market -- the customer, the retailer -- and the GBUs year very focused on their brands and their innovation flows and their resourcing systems, you know, it's really -- we've taken a lot of complexity out of the planning and a lot of complexity out of the execution of the business, and that's made a big difference for us.  

OPERATOR: We will be ending today's conference promptly at the top of the hour. However, there are still several questions in the queue. (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS). Andrew Shore with Deutsche Bank.  

ANDREW SHORE, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: A.G., In terms of the concept of winning with top customers and your capabilities, I know this is many months ago, I think maybe back in January, but in your P&G Wal-Mart supplier conference, one of the things I heard that came out was the Wal-Mart is so nervous longer-term that one of its limitations is culture, that it also needs bigger, smarter, better people as it grows and that they need more senior buyers with a deep and more broader understanding of the supply-chain. Have you been asked to train any of their buyers?  

A.G. LAFLEY: Not directly that I'm aware of. I think -- (Multiple Speakers).  

ANDREW SHORE: How about indirectly?  

A.G. LAFLEY: I think, Andrew, I think we work so closely with all of our leading retailers that we've learned from them and they are learning from us. Because the supply chains are so big and have to be so flexible and so responsive, I think where we work most closely with retailers, we are getting up the learning curve faster. I think that's going to result in cash out, cost out and most importantly, service levels up, because one of the big opportunities in our business is reducing the out-of-stock situation and being in-stock, especially on the fastest-moving brands and fastest-moving items.  

ANDREW SHORE: Since we all have cognitive dissidence, are you on allocation with Prilosec?  

CLAYT DALEY: Yes.  

ANDREW SHORE: That gets corrected when, the first quarter of next year?  

CLAYT DALEY: Probably the end of calendar this year, early next year, in that ballpark.  

ANDREW SHORE: So how much demand would you suggest right now that you're not capable of supplying?  

CLAYT DALEY: We can't go there. It's not huge amount. The product is still very readily available.  

ANDREW SHORE: When will you have more capacity around for Tampax Pearl?  

CLAYT DALEY: It's going to be very soon. It's been under construction for quite a while.  

ANDREW SHORE: Okay, thanks.  

OPERATOR: John Faucher with JP Morgan.  

JOHN FAUCHER, ANALYST, JP MORGAN: Good morning, everyone. Clay, just to follow up on your comments on Wella, I guess the focus on top line at the expense a little bit on the margin side -- is that due to the top line coming in a little bit below expectations, or just some opportunities?  

CLAYT DALEY: No, I think that's -- I'm sorry. It's really a -- what we've learned, as we've done some of these large acquisitions, is, particularly as you go through a transition, you need to be very top-line focused in order -- but I don't want to leave you with the impression that all we are doing is focusing on the top line. The question is really one of balance, of how do we make sure we strike the right balance between the go-to-market and the marketing investments that are needed to make sure that we don't have a dip, that we avoid a dip in the top line as well as going after the synergies at the same time.  

JOHN FAUCHER: Okay. Would that explain -- you mentioned that it was neutral for the year but dilutive for the quarter, which suggests some sort of change -- would the extra focus on the top line in terms of maybe a little additional spending explain that?  

CLAYT DALEY: Yes, I think that's exactly what we are saying, is we've made some decisions to retain go-to-market capabilities, as A.G. talked about earlier, that Wella has that will not just help Wella but also help our base beauty care business. We've also put some additional marketing spend behind some of their products but there's really no change versus guidance here.  

OPERATOR: Ann Gillin-Lefever with Lehman Brothers.  

ANN GILLIN-LEFEVER, ANALYST, LEHMAN BROTHERS: Probably one of your last questions, A.G, I wondered if you might just comment more on your bench of brands, those ten brands in the 500 million to 1 billion and where they might be on the innovation cycle right now relative to your $1 billion-plus?  

A.G. LAFLEY: Ann, the short answer is that our innovation system is pretty robust now and we are able to flow strong innovation and initiative programs not only for those now $16 billion brands but also for the ten brands that are in sort of the half a billion to $1 billion range.  

Maybe if I could just step back for a second here. If you think about what we've tried to transform over the last four or five years on the innovation system side, without going into all of the details, we have a very well-defined process. The process has very clear metrics. All of the businesses use the process. As a result of the process, our batting average on innovations and new initiatives has gone up. In other words, more of them are successful. Our slugging percentage has gone up even more, meaning more of them are delivering more value-creation.  

You know, if you step back, at our peak four or five years ago, our CapEx was 7.6 percent of sales. Today, it's 3.9. Our R&D as a percent of sales was 4.8; today it's 3.5. Yet, we are delivering more innovation and we are delivering it more consistently. Our pipeline, going into this year, is as big as it has been for a long time. So, I feel very good about the systems, and it's the systems and the capabilities that really make the difference. You know, we are not episodically based or project-dependent. We've got a system, and the system can handle more flow of creation development qualification, launch and commercialization. You know, some of the brands just, off the top of my head that are in this half a billion to $1 billion range, are Tampax, which has been growing very rapidly, Herbal Essences, SK-II Hugo Boss, Dawn, so these are brands with strong positions in their categories or segment or niche. They are in businesses that are growing pretty fast, and they have a lot of potential. They don't tend to be in as big a category or industry as some of the $1 billion brands, but I think many of them will get there.  

I guess the last thing I'll say is we are not rushing them there; they have to have a strategy and they have to demonstrate that they have the capability, and they have to demonstrate that they can do it in a financially responsible way. But we have really accelerated the growth on some of these businesses and we're not going to be constrained by our innovation flow.  

ANN GILLIN-LEFEVER: Actually, I was thinking more that, as you got the $1 billion brands moving that innovation played a large role. I was trying to measure where you might be in these. I understand that you do it more systemically than having (indiscernible) brand-specific.  

A.G. LAFLEY: Ann, say more so I make sure I understand.  

ANN GILLIN-LEFEVER: Sure. As you got the $1 billion brands moving -- (Multiple Speakers) -- years ago, a lot had to do with getting the innovation right, getting kind of the consumer directed innovation. Certainly along those that you've mentioned, you've done that already but I wondered whether you felt as if there was still more to come in the 500 million to 1 billion to help edge those along.  

A.G. LAFLEY: I think there is more to come because I think that, in many cases, those brands are fairly geographically focused, so they have a lot of geographic expansion opportunity and they tend to be brands that haven't been the first priority, okay, in their category or industry. So I think there's quite a bit of upside potential in both of those businesses.  

CLAYT DALEY: As a group, those brands have actually been growing as fast or faster than the $1 billion brands as a group, so they are actually on as good or a better growth trajectory, which we would expect to continue.  

JOHN GOODWIN: (indiscernible) and Herbal Essences, outside of the U.S., grew through the last quarter at a 50 percent rate. It's really -- to A.G.'s point about the geographical expansion on those businesses, it's a real opportunity.  

ANN GILLIN-LEFEVER: That's very helpful. Thanks.  

OPERATOR: We have time for one more question today which will come from Linda Bolton Weiser with Oppenheimer.  

LINDA BOLTON WEISER, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER & CO.: I was just curious about -- since you've had Clairol now for a little bit longer than Wella, is Clairol in a trend of improving margins year-over-year now?  

CLAYT DALEY: I think the answer is yes, and I think what you've seen in the Clairol business is certainly the colorants market share has come back some. We have, of course, been in a little bit of a scrap with competitors in the U.S. hair care business but as John alluded to, Herbal Essences is making terrific progress outside the U.S., both in the markets it was in when we acquired it and in the markets in which we've expanded it into. So I think, in general, that would be an accurate characterization.  

LINDA BOLTON WEISER: Then just in the quarter, in terms of the healthcare topline growth, was there any damping of that due to inventory reduction by retailers in the U.S. in the OTC part of the business?  

CLAYT DALEY: Not that we know of.  

LINDA BOLTON WEISER: Okay. Just one more -- for FY '05, do you have like an operating cash flow kind of outlook? Do you expect working capital to be a source of cash in FY '05?  

CLAYT DALEY: Well, the working capital progress this year versus last year was just outstanding and of course, as we've talked before, we're going to continue to try to make the sequential progress in working capital, but the business mix shift towards health and beauty care actually moves us in the opposite direction. So it's difficult to predict with any decision precision the net impact of those two goals.  

Now, you know, we do have the goal of 90 percent of earnings as free cash flow, operating cash after CapEx. We've been beating that goal. It would be very difficult to project to continue to beat that goal, but there is a lot of focus on cash flow here and I think the results show it.  

LINDA BOLTON WEISER: Okay, great. Thanks a lot.  

OPERATOR: That includes our question-and-answer session. Gentlemen, I will turn the call back over to you.  

CLAYT DALEY: Thank you for joining us today. I apologize if we didn't get to everyone in the Q&A session, but we've gotten a lot of feedback that we should try to limit the duration of the call. As I said at the outset, John Goodwin, Thomas Tipple (ph) and I will be around for the rest of the day for any follow-up questions. We appreciate your attendance with us today. Thanks a lot.  

OPERATOR: With that, we will conclude today's conference. Thank you, everyone, for your participation.  

[CCBN reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES CCBN ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. ]  

   CO
prgml : The Procter & Gamble Company
   IN
i25 : Chemicals | i258 : Cosmetics/Toiletries | icnp : Consumer Products
   NS
ntra : Transcript | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
FDCH e-Media
   AN
Document FNDW000020040816e0820008e
  


 HD
 Q3  2004  Procter  & Gamble Company Earnings Conference Call - Final  
   WC
11,113 words
   PD
30 April 2004
   SN
FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
(c) Copyright 2004 CCBN and FDCH e-Media.  

   LP
OPERATOR: Good day everyone and welcome to the Proctor and Gamble third quarter earnings release conference call.  

(OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS).  

   TD
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I'd like to turn the call over to the Chief Financial Officer, Mr. Clayt Daley. Please go ahead, sir.  

CLAYT DALEY, CFO, PROCTER & GAMBLE COMPANY: Thank you. Good morning and welcome again to Proctor and Gamble's quarter-end conference call. A.G. Lafley, our CEO and John Goodwin, our Treasurer join me this morning. I'll begin the call today with a summary of our third quarter results. John will cover our results by operating segment and I'll wrap up with our expectations for the June quarter and a brief outlook on next fiscal year. A.G. will join today's call for the Q&As. As always, following the call John Goodwin, Thomas Tippl and I will be available to provide additional perspective as needed.  

Now, on to the March quarter results. We delivered another outstanding quarter with sales growth above our long-term targets behind double-digit organic volume growth. Diluted net earnings per share were $1.09, exceeding consensus by a penny. This was our ninth consecutive quarter of top and bottom line growth at/or above our long-term objectives. Diluted EPS was up 20% versus the prior year reported EPS of 91 cents per share, which included 5 cents per share of restructuring charges. Excluding the base period restructuring program charges EPS was up 14%.  

Third-quarter net sales were $13 billion, up 22%. Acquisitions and divestitures contributed 8% to sales growth primarily driven by Wella, foreign exchange added 5%. Organic sales growth was up 9%. Total shipment volume increased 20% and organic volume grew a very strong 12%. All business units in all regions delivered solid volume growth with Health care, Beauty care and developing markets continuing to set the pace. Health care volume grew 19%, Beauty care volume was up 41% including acquisitions and up 13% on an organic basis. Developing market volume grew 20%.  

All developing MDO regions grew volume double-digits led by continued strong growth in China. As expected the rapid growth in developing markets was the primary driver of negative mix, which came in at minus 2% on the quarter.  

Next. Earnings and margin performance. As a remainder these comparisons are versus the core results in base period. Operating income was up 13% to $2.3 billion for the quarter. The operating margin decline of 150 basis points versus last year was mainly due to the addition of Wella. Gross margin improved by 110 basis points to 50.9%. The improvement was driven primarily by scale leverage from higher volume, base business savings projects and business mix shift toward higher gross margin, health and beauty care products, mainly from the addition of Wella.  

For the quarter, health and beauty care accounted for more than 47% of the company sales. These improvements were partially offset by pricing and commodity cost impacts, ongoing restructuring charges and the mix impact of rapid developing market growth.  

Market research and administrative cost increased 260 basis points, the large majority of MR&A increase was driven by Wella. Also, we have continued to put strong marketing support behind an exceptionally robust stream of initiatives. Blockbuster initiatives such as Prilosec OTC, oil of Olay renegerist, the global expansion of Herbal Essences and the Swiffer and Mr. Clean franchise extensions have helped to drive top-line growth above our long-term targets.  

Of course, we are striving to maintain the current pace, we will continue to have a strong initiative program and we will invest to sustain top-line momentum. Our upstream initiative pipeline allows us to plan for these investments. We will adjust these investments as needed to balance spending with top-line growth. Importantly, we are generating better returns from our marketing investments.  

The enhancements in our market initiative testing tools, the launch and leverage program have helped improve our initiative success rate by 25%. Also we have raised the overall number of initiatives generating shareholder value to about 90% of new product launches, evidence of strong financial discipline and excellent execution.  

Now, I want to address a recurring question from investors. We have been asked on a number of occasions whether our very strong EPS growth is the result of currency benefits. The simple answer to that question is, no. I need to stress that it is difficult to isolate and quantify all of the effects of foreign exchange on earnings, as many of the effects are indirect or offset by other impacts. This is especially true for pricing actions. Elements of price increases may be directly linked to recovering adverse foreign exchange movements. On the other hand, price reductions could be in response to competitors who use foreign exchange benefits from dollar-based sourcing to fund higher promotions. If we exclude pricing and focus on the direct impact of foreign exchange movements, the contribution to earnings growth is estimated to be less than 1% for the fiscal year.  

One major factor that helps limit our net company exposure is natural hedging. We have a broad country portfolio and in many instances have localized large parts of the supply chain. The combination of these factors provides us with natural offsets. For example, our Western European profitability has improved due to the strong euro. However, our businesses in Eastern Europe and parts of Asia have been hurt by higher costs for euro denominated materials and finished product. This is part of the natural hedge.  

The remaining net global foreign exchange exposure is hedged at the corporate level where cost effective hedging instruments exist, further reducing the impact of currency on earnings. Net while FX will help the top line by 3% to 4% this year it's contribution to earnings growth is significantly smaller. Now, on to cash.  

Operating cash flow in the quarter was nearly 3 billion, about $560 million more than the same period last year this was driven by strong earnings and solid improvements in working capital. Excluding the impact of Wella receivable days, inventory days and payable days all improved by two days versus the prior quarter. Free cash flow for the quarter was $2.5 billion.  

Capital spending for the quarter was 4% of sales consistent with our long-term target. Free cash flow productivity was 160% for the quarter. This brings the year to date free cash flow productivity to 110%, well above our 90% target.  

Our ability to generate cash remains very strong. Despite over $600 million in dividend payments, $275 million of debt reduction and almost $1.3 billion of share repurchases the company's cash balance still increased by over $400 million since December. Now, with that introduction, I'll turn it over to John for a discussion of the business unit results by segment.  

JOHN GOODWIN, TREASURER, PROCTER & GAMBLE COMPANY: Thanks, Clayt. Fabric and Home care businesses unit delivered another quarter of excellent results. Volume grew 12% and sales were $3.6 billion, up 17%. Sales growth excluding foreign exchange impacts was 12%. The strong top-line performance was driven by Fabric care share growth and geographic expansion and a robust stream of Home care innovations.  

Geographically the volume growth was broad based with both Fabric care and Home care posting solid volume growth in all regions. Earnings increased 10% to $548 million, driven primarily by the strong top-line results. Cost savings programs on non-commodity materials helped to offset increased marketing spending behind new product initiatives and geographical expansions. Fabric care delivered a very strong quarter with double-digit global volume growth. US all out that value share for P&G laundry detergents (sic) and Fabric enhancers grew 1.6 and 2.2 points respectively.  

The Gain brand continues to grow rapidly behind the White Water fresh laundry initiative and the Fabric enhancer launch. Outside the US, fabric care volume is up behind initiatives like Daz Citrus in the UK, the launch of Lenor Fabric enhancer and growth of Bold detergent in Japan and Tide Clean Wipes in China. Home care delivered an outstanding quarter with global volume growth over 20%, this is driven by a host of successful new products introduced over the last 12 months, including Mr. Clean Magic Eraser, Mr. Clean AutoDry, Dawn Power Dish brush, Swiffer Duster and the New duster with the extendable handle. We also continue to grow our other home care brands with leadership shares. Dawn hand dish washing liquid, Cascade Auto Dish, and Febreeze are all growing volume behind ongoing product innovations. Initiatives like Cascade two-in-one action packs is a prime example. This combines the benefits of Cascade and Dawn grease cutting into a single dose format for the dishwasher.  

In Beauty Care volume was up 41% for the quarter behind the Wella acquisition. Importantly organic volume was up a strong 13% on broad-based growth. The Hair care, Feminine care and Personal Beauty care segments were all up double digits globally and grew volume in all regions. Sales increased 48% to $4.5 billion, including 6 percentage points help from foreign exchange.  

Organic sales grew 12%. Quarterly earnings were $593 million. The 28% increase versus the prior year was mainly driven by base business volume growth and operating margin improvements. Global Hair care again delivered broad-based volume growth across the top shampoo and conditioner brands. Head & Shoulders, Herbal Essences and Rejoice grew volume more than 20% and Pantene was up double-digits. Herbal Essences shampoo and conditioner volume was up behind the Fruit Fusions and Rain Forest Flowers initiatives and the brand's expansion in China and Central and Eastern Europe. Past three month Clairol US hair color and shade was up over 2 percentage points to 37% behind Strength in the Nice 'N Easy and Herbal Essences highlighting products.  

Personal Beauty care delivered a strong quarter across all categories. Skin care, Fine Fragrances and Personal Cleansing each posted volume growth of 13% or better. And color cosmetic and deodorants grew mid to high-single digits.  

The Olay brand continues to be the pace setter with global volume growth over 25% led by the geographical expansion of the Regenerist and total effects product lines. In the U.S., Olay all-out value share of the facial moisturizer category is up 3.5 percentage points to 34%. Fem care continued to grow in all sub-segments, pads, liners and tampons behind strong innovation success. The tampax pearl initiative has helped build U.S. all-out value share of tampons by more than a percentage point to 46%. Our fem pad business grew globally behind the Naturella and Always Basica brands in Latin America, the new whisper light flow initiative in Japan, Always classic in Russia and on going upgrades to Always in North America. The Past three-month Always share of fem pads in the US is up 3 percentage points to 45%. Panty liner volume growth is being driven by innovations like the Alldays extra and Ultralight introductions in Western Europe.  

Next Baby and Family Care. The business unit delivered strong results for the quarter. Volume grew 7% led by double-digit growth in Pampers and Bounty. Sales increased 9% to $2.7 billion including 5% help from foreign exchange. Mix decreased sales by 2% driven by the fast growth of value-tiered diapers in developing markets and mid-teen volume growth of baby wipes. Pricing lowered sales by 1% mainly due to investments in North American family care to match high levels of competitive promotional activity.  

Earnings for the quarter were $219 million, an increase of 10%. Earnings results were also driven by strong profit improvements in both baby and family care due to volume growth and manufacturing cost savings. Western Europe baby care continues to post strong share growth. Past three month diaper value share was over 52%, up nearly 3 percentage points versus year ago. This is driven by strength in both Pampers Baby Stages and Baby Dry products. Baby wipes are also delivering strong growth behind scent upgrades on Pampers and the expansion of Candu (ph) toddler wipes into Germany, Austria and Switzerland. US Pampers diaper past three months estimated all-out that value share was approaching 26%. This is unchanged versus a very strong base period that included promotional activity to support the Pack-size changes. Baby Stages continued its strong performance with share growing over a point. We plan to continue this momentum with the introduction of our unique Feel and Learn training pants this summer. The baby care business in Latin America continued to deliver very strong results behind the success of mid-tier product initiatives. Volume for the quarter increased more than 20% in the region.  

Family care posted solid volume and sale results for the quarter. The North American Bounty brand delivered double-digit volume growth, which was very encouraging in face of a competitive re-launch with heavy promotional spending. The Charmin ultra-absorbancy and appearance upgrade and new Bounty prints and pack formats are now shipping into the US market. These new innovations will help us maintain strong consumer value while we raise prices in July to partially cover commodity cost increases.  

Now, to Health Care, which delivered another quarter of excellent volume, sales and earnings growth. Volume grew 19% led by pharmaceuticals, Prilosec OTC and continued global strength of our Oral Care business. Sales were $1.7 billion, an increase of 20%. Foreign exchange helped sales by 4%. Mix impacts hurt sales growth by 3% primarily due to pipeline shipment for authorizations generic Macrobid supply, which sells at a lower unit rate compared to the branded product.  

Earnings for the quarter were $215 million, an increase of 46% driven by strong volume growth, positive margin mix and ongoing cost savings projects. Actonel volume for the quarter increased over 60% including strong shipments to Aventis under our supply agreement. Actonel global value share of bisphosphonate treatments for osteoporosis has grown for the last 23 consecutive months and is now over 27%.  

Crest delivered another strong quarter with double-digit volume growth in North America and significant growth in greater China. Past three-month all-outlet share in the U.S. toothpaste is up nearly 2 percentage points to just below 33%. Crest Tooth Whitening share is up 17 percentage points to over 74% driven by our Crest Whitestrips premium initiative, which also fueled double-digit category expansion.  

The Pet Health Care business also had a good quarter with mid single digit global volume growth. The IAMS brand has now grown value share in the US through drug-plus reported data for the 48th consecutive month, every month since the national retail expansion. Prilosec OTC continues to have great success in market and is the U.S. stomach remedy market leader with over a 21% value share. As expected, Vicks shipments for the quarter were lower versus prior year as the early peak of the cough-cold season in the fall moderated soon after the holidays. In fact cough-cold incidences were at the lowest level in more than 10 years for the March quarter.  

Finally, Snacks and Beverages delivered solid earnings growth on the quarter. Volume increased 2% with Pringles and Folgers both growing low to mid-single digits. Sales were $800 million up 6%. Foreign exchange helped sales by 5% while pricing and mix were down a net 1%. Earnings were $55 million an increase of 10%. Pringles delivered excellent growth in Western Europe with volume up more than 25%. In the U.S., Pringles all-outlet share has remained steady on a sequential basis at about 14% for the past three, six and twelve month periods. Folgers' past three-month U.S. all-outlet value share grew about a share point to over 32%, continuing to strengthen behind the Aroma seal initiative. Also, as announced last week to our customers, coffee pricing should soon begin to increase as promotional spending is reduced to offset rising coffee bean costs. That concludes the business unit review. Now I'll turn the call back to Clayt.  

CLAYT DALEY: Thanks, John. Before closing with guidance I want to provide a brief update on the progress of the Wella acquisition. Results to date are on track and confirm our expectations that the acquisition will be non-dilutive to P&G's fiscal 2004 EPS results. I also want to assure our investors that we remain confident in our ability to grow the business and deliver the synergies outlined in our acquisition announcements back in March of last year. At the end of January we reached a significant milestone in our collaboration with Wella. We signed a license agreement and will start to run Wella's consumer retail business through P&G's go-to-market capability. At the beginning of this week we signed a denomination of profit transfer agreement at the request of Wella management, which is subject to Wella shareholder approval and registration in the commercial register. P&G anticipates that it will create greater efficiency in achieving previously stated business goals and collaboration synergies. Under such an agreement the collaboration between P&G and Wella is simplified and business plans can be executed more expeditiously. P&G can directly instruct Wella and Wella management no longer has the burden of proof that collaboration activities are also in Wella's best interest.  

On Wednesday, the independent court appointed auditor Ernst & Young confirmed the appropriateness of the valuation. This is also a re-enforcement that our valuation at the time of the tender offer was fair. The key difference simply comes down to the time value of money for the period of about a year between the tender offer and the denomination and profit transfer agreement. By the way, it also confirms the appropriateness of Wella management supporting the 65 euro offer at the time.  

Finally, it is also worthwhile pointing out to those investors who tendered their Wella shares they made the right investment decision. They received a fair price and an excellent return on their investment. In addition, they had the opportunity to reinvest their cash. Just by reinvesting in a market such as the Dax or the Mdax they have generated a significantly higher return than the hedge funds who did not tender their Wella preference shares and have incurred significant legal and PR expenses trying to extract a bigger pay-off.  

Next, guidance for the June quarter. We expect organic volume growth of about 10%. This excludes acquisition and divestiture impacts. We expect continued broad-based volume strength across all business units and geographies. Acquisitions and divestitures should add about 7 to 8% to sales and foreign exchange should help by another 3 or 4%. Mix and pricing are expected to reduce sales by 2 to 3%, again driven primarily by growth in developing markets. Total sales are projected to grow in the high teens and organic sales growth should again be above our long-term targets.  

Operating margin is expected to climb 75 to 125 basis points largely driven by the inclusion of Wella. On Earnings Per Share, we are comfortable with the current consensus estimate for the quarter. Wella is expected to be slightly dilutive on the quarter. As I mentioned earlier, we plan to continue executing our approach of balanced, sustainable growth. Investing behind a number of initiatives and maintaining price competitiveness while delivering another quarter of double-digit EPS growth. Major initiative launches for this quarter include the Charmin Ultra Upgrade, Cascade with shine shield, Tide Tropical Clean, Folgers Home Cafe, Boston Motion Blue. Several upgrades on Always pads and expansion of Herbal Essences in Japan. We also expect to repurchase our shares at an increased level as we did in the March quarter, this could result in a share count decrease as all stock options granted to date are now in the money. So options will not offset repurchases in the calculation of diluted shares to the same extent they have over the last few quarters.  

Turning to next fiscal year, our financial planning process is not yet complete. But I want to provide some preliminary perspective. For fiscal 2005 we expect to deliver another year of sales growth toward the top end of our long-term target range. This is despite a very strong base period comparison where organic volume growth should be about 10%.  

Also this top-line growth assumes no benefits from acquisitions and divestitures, as the two incremental months of Wella should be offset by the Juice divestiture. Based on our early estimates we expect to deliver our fourth consecutive year of double-digit EPS growth.  

We expect EPS growth rate to moderate versus the strong 13 to 14% we have delivered over the past two years. This is consistent with the current consensus estimate for next year. We expect another year of solid cost savings performance and we plan to continue to invest behind our initiative program to help maintain strong top-line momentum.  

Also assuming there are no large acquisitions we will likely repurchase stock at an increased level compared to the last few years. Last, recall that our restructuring program ended in June 2003 so beginning next fiscal year our year-to-year discussion will be a little less complex. We will return to a reported versus reported comparison that includes ongoing restructuring cost in both periods.  

Much of the restructuring spending next year will be directed toward collaboration activities with Wella. Again, this is just a quick overview. We are still completing our planning for next year and will provide full guidance on 2005 during the June earnings conference call.  

Now that concludes the business comments for the quarter. As you know this discussion is included a number of forward-looking statements. If you will refer to our most recent 10-K and 8-K reports you will see a discussion of factors that could cause the company's actual results to differ materially from these projections. And as required by Regulation G we need to make you aware that during the call we made a number of references to non-GAAP measures.  

Management believes these measures provide our investors valuable information on the underlying growth trends of our business. The only difference between reported and core amounts is the restructuring charges in the base period. Organic refers to reported results excluding the impacts of foreign exchange and acquisitions and divestitures where applicable. Free cash flow represents operating cash flow less capital expenditures. And we have posted on our Web site  www.pg.com a full reconciliation of non-GAAP measures to U.S. GAAP to provide any additional clarification if needed. Now at this point A.G., John and I would open up the call for your questions.  

OPERATOR: Thank you.  

(OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS).  

We'll turn first to Amy Chasen with Goldman Sachs.  

AMY CHASEN, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Good morning. Can you just talk about on the restructuring and the cost savings, just give us a refresher for FY '04, how much internal restructuring charges you absorbed and what the savings were that were left over from the program?  

CLAYT DALEY: Yes, Amy. Good morning. Restructuring costs in this current year should be in the $150 to $200 million range after tax. And that includes both the tail on the restructuring program we announced several years ago as well as some new projects that have come up since then.  

AMY CHASEN: And then the benefits that are left over from the prior program?  

CLAYT DALEY: Well, there are certainly some cost savings that are flowing through both from spending we did last year and the year before as well as the spending that we're doing in the current year, although not surprisingly a lot of the spending we're doing in the current year is really going to benefit next year. And we have not quantified that. I think you can assume that if you pull out Wella the gross margin this year is going to be up about 90 basis points. That's really the top end of our long-term range. And so I think you can see by both the gross margin progress and it's unfortunate because embedded in the MR&A line there are improvements in our overhead costs as percent of sales. But they're being more than offset by all of the investments we are doing in marketing on this huge initiative pipeline we've got. Go ahead, John.  

JOHN GOODWIN: And the fact that the spending on the restructuring costs are obviously coming into our overall operating numbers this year for the first time. I think to the heart of your question, Amy is that there is a drag to our overall margin progression this year as a consequence to the fact that we are bringing in the restructuring charges for the first time this year. They're not completely offset by the savings of the tail of the last program, but obviously it is not to the full 150 to 200 million extent that Clayt mentioned.  

AMY CHASEN: What I'm trying to figure out, is I think originally you had said that you expected 200 million in savings from the prior program this year. So the idea in FY '04 was that those - the incremental restructuring costs that you were absorbing would be simply offset by benefits and that FY '05 would be the first year where you had to absorb restructuring charges without any benefit and so I'm wondering, number one, is that still true and then number two is that why you are being a little bit more conservative on the EPS growth outlook or are you just being conservative as you have been for the past two years?  

CLAYT DALEY: I think your assessment is generally correct in terms of there being an offset this year between flow-through savings from last year and incremental - and costs this year. So you're right going into fiscal 2005 there will be some savings that flow into 2005. But you are right; we will taking the charges next year as well for the restructuring that occurs next year and therefore I think that in addition to obviously a very strong base period on volume and sales growth going into next year suggests the moderation in earnings guidance.  

AMY CHASEN: Wonderful. Just lastly, really quickly obviously the results are fabulous and in no way do I want to minimize that. I'm just curious, pure curiosity; you said that 19 of your top 20 brands grew volume. Which one didn't?  

CLAYT DALEY: I think it's Charmin.  

AMY CHASEN: Thanks a lot.  

OPERATOR: We'll now turn to Wendy Nicholson with Smith Barney.  

WENDY NICHOLSON, ANALYST, SMITH BARNEY: I had a question specifically about the fabric and home care business. That's a business where we've seen less margin expansion over the last couple of quarters. I wondered if that relates to Amy's question about more restructuring charges showing up in that business or is there something specific about that business, whether it's mix shift or home care away from detergents, what is it that is constraining the profit growth so that it is trailing below sales growth?  

CLAYT DALEY: There has just been a very robust initiative program in fabric and home care this year. You know, I think you're aware and John alluded to a huge number of items in home care. And obviously, the right thing to do with those initiatives has been to run with them. But also on fabric care, there have been a number of things we have been doing in various markets around the world. I think, if you look at our market share progress on laundry in the North American market, we are up in Western Europe, too. We clearly have built some market share in laundry and that's come by leveraging the initiative program.  

A.G. LAFLEY, CEO, PROCTER & GAMBLE COMPANY: Wendy, this is A.G. Three things, one is, remember we are working off a very high margin base in laundry. You know, we run the laundry business with personal Care-like margins. Secondly, we have had an incredibly strong initiative program and we are investing not only in the launch of it, but we've gotten a lot of benefit out of a program we call Launch and Leverage, which means we continue to invest as long as the trial among the target consumer continues to rise and that translates into repurchase and profitable cases. So it's not just that the program has been strong, but we've been sustaining the investment in the program. And the third thing is our shares and volumes have been growing so robustly that we've made a pretty significant investment in our supply chain. So, you know, big investment in the US, and investments in places like Turkey and underdeveloping markets around the world. So the Laundry business is in really terrific shape. The whole fabric and home care business is in terrific shape.  

WENDY NICHOLSON: And if I remember correctly that is one of your more global businesses? So is the faster rate of growth, if you will, in the developing and emerging markets, is that helping or hindering your margin right now in that business?  

CLAYT DALEY: Well, as we've said before, our margins in developing markets are comparable to the company average, but not in every business.  

WENDY NICHOLSON: Right, aren't you still in investment mode in some of those?  

CLAYT DALEY: You're exactly right we are in an investment mode in China and we have been growing the business dramatically in China and we also are in an investment mode in central and Eastern Europe. That is a correct assumption.  

WENDY NICHOLSON: Could you tell me just last question, if you exclude China from that developing market volume growth of 20%, can you give us a sense for what that would look like? Is China growing 10 points faster than that right now?  

A.G. LAFLEY: (Laughter). I'd have to say at least. But Wendy, the key thing is all of our developing markets are growing strong double-digits right now, every single one of them. So, Southeast Asia, Latin America, central and eastern Europe, Miage, every one of them is growing strong double-digits right now and every one of them is making very strong profit progress. So, while China is a rocket, you know, we're doing very well in all of our developing markets.  

WENDY NICHOLSON: Sounds great. Thank you very much.  

OPERATOR: Bill Pecoreillo with Morgan Stanley. Please go ahead.  

BILL PECOREILLO, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Good morning, everyone. I wanted to talk a little bit more about the developing markets. Given some of the historical volatility, we've seen in markets like Russia, which collapsed in the late '90s, and worries of China might be a bubble. What kind of controls or strategies are you putting in place to avoid getting too far ahead investing ahead of sustainable demand be it product mix or outsourcing?  

CLAYT DALEY: Well, I think, Bill, you are exactly right. There have been some ups and downs in developing markets. Although, I must say the current environment in developing markets is as good as I've seen it in a long time in terms of broad-based ability. But in direct response to your question one of the important things we need to do in developing markets is localize supply chain so that if - and localize as much of the costs as possible, not just supply chain, marketing costs, all costs so that we don't end up in a margin squeeze if we get to valuation in a developing market currency we want a few dollar base costs in those developing markets as we can get away with, although some are unavoidable. Obviously the other thing we are doing is we are very careful about our investments. We're very careful about how much capacity we install. We are doing, as you eluded to, out sourcing of production in a number of categories and a number of countries in order to make sure we don't have too much cash committed in these countries relative to their likely returns because their returns will be over long periods of time certainly more volatile than developed markets.  

A.G. LAFLEY: Bill, this is A.G. I would just add two things. One, you know we've been through the Asian crisis, the Brazilian and Mexican crises, the Russian crisis and others and I would say our organizations are very cash attentive and very cash alert and we run Lean receivables and just very strict programs in those markets. And the last thing I would say and this is important we're now to the point where we have very strong local organizations. When I went to Asia 10 years ago, we were still pretty dependent in several parts of the world on expatriates. And now all of our Latin American countries are headed by Latin Americans, we are getting to the point where we have very few ex-pats in China. We are still the leadership - still has a number of ex-pats, but the vast majority of the 5000 on the ground in China are Chinese. The same is true in central and Eastern Europe, the same is true in the Middle East and Africa, most of our Southeast Asian countries are now in categories are now run by Southeast Asians or by Asians. So that makes a real difference because not only in managing the cost side, but we're a lot closer to the markets. We're tuned into the markets and I think it makes us more responsive to the markets.  

BILL PECOREILLO: Thank you very much.  

CLAYT DALEY: Okay, Bill, thank you.  

OPERATOR: We'll now turn to Lauren Lieberman with Credit Suisse First Boston.  

LAUREN LIEBERMAN, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE FIRST BOSTON: Great. Thank you. Good morning.  

CLAYT DALEY: Good morning Lauren.  

LAUREN LIEBERMAN: The first question is on pricing overall for the entire business. I was looking back at last year's earnings and much of the discussion was about the expansion into the mid tier and the pricing adjustments you took on the laundry business and also in hair care. I wanted to get a sense for today if that work is done, are prices around the world in all of your product portfolios in those countries pretty much where they need to be in order to cover the consumer base that you want to?  

CLAYT DALEY: We have a very systematic approach through our MDO organization worldwide to track our pricing versus price targets. And I'm sure you guys would love to see this matrix by country, by category, that's red, yellow, green with green being more basically on price strategy and then yellow and red, as you can figure that out. There aren't very many yellow and red boxes right now. And so, I would suggest that we are feeling pretty good about where we stand on pricing and price strategy. Now, having said that this is always a moving target, as you know and one of the things I think we've done particularly well in the last two years is when competitors move, we move much more quickly. And you know maybe in the past we might have been a little bit too statesman-like. .And now our people because of the fact that we're constantly monitoring our pricing versus strategy, I think we're much quicker and much more nimble on our feet to make sure that we get our pricing right. But, of course you got to have your cost structure right in order to do that without giving up margin. I think our numbers suggest that we are doing that, as well.  

LAUREN LIEBERMAN: I guess as a follow-on to that if I can focus just on India. You know, I think at the analyst day this year or last year, as I understood India was not one of the core countries for investment in emerging markets and yet by all reports you're waging a very aggressive price war there in detergents, as I understand it. You are selling the same packet of Tide that used to be 120 rubies is now 40. You have something like a 5% market share there. So what's the strategy, what are you doing? What are the goals and how does that fit in with India not being one of the core countries for investment?  

A.G. LAFLEY: This is A.G. India, first of all you're right, we have a number of core countries and categories that we're focusing on strategically in our developing markets. We've had our first phase developing markets, which of course include several of the big ones that we've talked about in the past, the Chinas and Russias and Mexicos and Brazils etc, of the world and that's where the primary focus is. What we're doing in India is beginning to test whether we can deliver our brands and products at an affordable price, at an affordable price to generate a meaningful business that will be profitable for us. India is a very small part of the total picture, less than a couple hundred million dollars on a business that should likely end up doing more than 50 billion this year. Bu we are testing. And we have had a decent, but small fem care business there. We have a small and growing hair care business there.  

One of the biggest markets there is laundry detergent. And we've actually built on the platforms that we've developed for China and it is a lower cost product and sourcing platform. So we're able to deliver an affordable detergent, you know, at a price and at a cost structure that we think over time we can make reasonable money on. So that's what we are doing, we are test marketing in India and seeing whether we can get a beachhead there. We're not going to rush Cullmel (ph) because it is Walt (ph) City and our friends from Unilever and some of our friends in other categories have been there for 50, 100, 150 years. So, we're going to be deliberate. We are going to test our way in.  

The last thing I would say about India is you know, there is a distribution opportunity in India and I won't go into all the details of distributing your product there, but it is a complex and distended distribution system. We've learned over time that to establish a viable, sustainable distribution system you have to have every day, every week purchased kinds of products, products like laundry, products like hair care in the distribution channel. That's another reason that we are focusing on testing affordable offerings in those categories.  

JOHN GOODWIN: One additional point to what A.G. said on India just so you know what is happening. There also is a little bit of portfolio re-calibration as we move Tide more into a tier that is accessible to more consumers, much the same way as we did when we rejigged (ph) some of our hair care brands within the U.S. and indeed the laundry brands within the U.S. in order to get them clearly within the different tiers. Previously Tide was kind of out there and not meeting the specific consumer needs. So there was some re-calibration getting it into the right tier. So whilst the price change may look a little bit surprising to some extent for commentators, really there is some bigger portfolio moves that are taking place.  

LAUREN LIEBERMAN: Okay. I guess - (technical difficulty) -- I understand there is similar things about to or currently happening and happening in Thailand then I read that you're going to enter toothpaste in Argentina. I understand or I think I understand the strength of the MDO structure. It just seems that at some point even though these are tests there are choices that would have to be made. Maybe I don't truly understand the strength of the MDO structure if I'm asking that question.  

CLAYT DALEY: First of all, don't believe everything you read.  

LAUREN LIEBERMAN: Okay.  

CLAYT DALEY: Second, though, all these things have got to be justified, first within our overall strategic plan but then obviously within the business plans of each of these regions and global business units. So, we're not just throwing stuff out there. Okay.  

A.G. LAFLEY: A.G. The last point on this -- Probably talking too long and confusing everybody, but two last points. One, a place like India is obviously worth it in the long term. Okay. There is a large population; there's rising incomes; there's pretty steady GDP growth and over time they're going to develop a sufficient number of households that are going to have a sufficient amount of income to afford our products on a regular purchase basis and where we can build a decent business. We're just feeling that now eventually we are going to have to start testing there and we are testing there.  

The second thing is that -- the second point I will make is we often use adjacent or nearby or similar smaller developing markets as stocking-horse test markets for other markets. I don't want to go into all of that for competitive reasons, but sometimes you will see us testing in country 'C' and you go why are they testing there? It is not because country C is so important, it's because country 'C' is like Country 'A', and if it is works in Country 'C', then we are going to take it to country 'A'. Okay.  

LAUREN LIEBERMAN: Okay. Thanks.  

OPERATOR: I'll now turn to Ann Gillin with Lehman Brothers. Please go ahead.  

ANN GILLIN, ANALYST, LEHMAN BROTHERS: Good morning.  

CLAYT DALEY: Hi, Ann.  

ANN GILLIN: I just wondered if you at all are thinking about having a traffic like matrix for rising prices? I know it's been something that you've looked at for commodity related products but as we're seeing some more commodity pricing going into effect in retail channels, I am wondering whether the posturing is improving at all for any increases on branded goods?  

CLAYT DALEY: Well, I think there is certainly three pricing activities that are already been announced in tissue and in coffee and in pet health and nutrition that are all directly tied to commodities in terms of tissue increases that have occurred in pulp and natural gas and coffee, green coffee prices are up. In pet health and nutrition a number of the protein-based commodities that they buy are also up. And so I think we've hopefully been fairly consistent that we are prepared to raise prices to recover commodity costs once those commodity costs have made a sufficient move and have sustained at a higher level so that we really feel the pricing activity is necessary. But at the end of the day, really it's the strength of the initiative program that will you know, that will be a determinant of our success long term and that's really where we're driving.  

ANN GILLIN: Right, Clayt, I was actually thinking about beyond the commodities with prices rising on more than just Procter products that are commodity tied. Is there any posturing towards -  

CLAYT DALEY: I think our view is that we price with the initiatives. Our history suggests that pricing up base line products without any cost driver and without any initiative or product improvement is generally not the right thing to do. Now what we are doing is we are bringing out the new initiative program. We're clearly and you've seen it on whether it's Olay, Total Effects or Regenerist or white strips or daily facials, you have seen us be, frankly, willing to be reasonably aggressive once we - if we've got a new and improved product.  

ANN GILLIN: Okay. Just separately, in the press release with fabric care you mentioned a -- I think it's something for the first time, we are hearing about start-up costs behind manufacturing optimization, can you go into that? I know, A.G., you mentioned the supply chain a minute ago. Are they related?  

A.G. LAFLEY: Yes, this is A.G. They are related. We have been growing so fast in North America that our supply system has been strained and we've made a significant investment in existing manufacturing sites. We're not building a new manufacturing site, but we are trying to leverage the significant scale that we have by adding capacity and adding capability at two major sites in the U.S. We're also investing in our distribution and logistics side and again that on the one hand, it's to keep up with additional demand, on the other hand, it's to make sure that our service levels stay at highest level and preferred level to our retail customers and finally we're always trying to be more efficient and more effective than the whole consumer-driven supply network and we are trying to get cost and cash out. We are investing. We are investing in that area. It will be a very quick pay back.  

You know, one last thing on pricing because I think pricing is really important. You know, point number one, we start with business strategy and in most of our category and brand business strategies we target -- you know we strategically target a premium price.  

We believe if we have a preferred brand and we deliver better products and leading innovation we ought to be able to command premium pricing. In the vast majority of our categories that is our target, point number one. Point number two, we've always believed that you have to price and you have to price promptly to recover commodity price rises and a few years ago when there wasn't much courage around and nobody was pricing you may recall we stuck our necks out in laundry, we stuck our necks our in tissue-towel and we did price. We took list price increases and we have moved promptly this year in coffee, in tissue towel and in pet care. And then thirdly to the point that Clayt made, it is incredibly important when we bring innovation we price for it. And you know, sometimes I think we price maybe a bit too aggressively, but we would rather err on that side starting out you can always reduce your prices to get to the sweet spot with a consumer and the retailer. It is very difficult to take them up. And I feel real good about the innovation programs across a lot of the businesses. Our ability to command premium prices across so many businesses I think is testimony to the strength of the brands, is testimony to the strength of the innovation programs.  

ANN GILLIN: Great. One question maybe back to the logistics and added capacity. Isn't this scenario that you actually took some capacity out of kind of early in your tenure when - (multiple speakers)?  

A.G. LAFLEY: We did. Let me tell you where we are adding it, we are adding - I will be specific. We are adding it for liquids, heavy duty liquids.  

ANN GILLIN: Okay, got it. You took it out of powders before?  

A.G. LAFLEY: We took it out of powders before. Yes, we can't run it you know 3.5% to 4% CAPEX and have excess capacity banging around. We are putting in capacity that we really need and we are putting it in in the fastest growing part of the business.  

ANN GILLIN: Thanks much.  

OPERATOR: Andrew Shore with Deutsche Bank. Please go ahead.  

ANDREW SHORE, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Good morning. I don't know how five people could hit star 1 faster than I hit star 1. Anyway, A.G., a question really around the organization. Is it true that you are preparing to announce a rotation among some of the key presidents in either May or June? Two follow-ups on that, a large number of Marketing Directors have been told that they are not going to make GM, can you talk to that? Also I heard you just completed an analysis that you think you are top heavy in your top 200 to 250 managers, could you talk about that? Finally, the only brand that was down was Charmin, does that tell you that it is one more example that Super Bowl Advertising doesn't work?  

A.G. LAFLEY: Actually Andrew, Charmin wasn't down; Charmin was flat in the quarter, so it was the only brand that didn't grow. I think we will never know whether Super Bowl advertising really works or not. But, we got a lot of trade; we got a of retail customer support for that. Sometimes I think you're running my human resources operation because you're ahead of me. You know, stepping back, we have a super strong organization right now and that's obviously one of the reasons why the business is doing so well. And I am talking about the 90 to 100,000 strong around the world, all the way up to the leadership of the businesses and the leadership of the functions. In terms of - I can't obviously comment on any future staffing moves, but you know, generally every few years, we do look at the needs of the business and we look at the development needs of individuals and we try to strengthen our team. Overall, we like the team we have. We think it is a very strong team and we're trying to keep the team together. We're trying to keep all the players on the field and we're trying to play them where they play the best.  

ANDREW SHORE: So, are you not preparing a rotation of key presidents in May or June?  

CLAYT DALEY: We can never comment on that. So -- sorry.  

ANDREW SHORE: Okay. Thanks.  

A.G. LAFLEY: Thank you.  

OPERATOR: We'll turn to Carl Kawaja with Capital Research.  

CARL KAWAJA, ANALYST, CAPITAL RESEARCH CO.: Congratulations on an excellent result.  

CLAYT DALEY: Thank you, Carl.  

CARL KAWAJA: I was wondering if you could talk a little bit more about the business in Eastern Europe and the business in China and sort of how you feel about the growth prospects, maybe not with the cautious bend (ph) that Bill Pecoreillo raised in his question?  

A.G. LAFLEY: Okay. Carl, this is A.G. Well, we feel pretty optimistic about both Central and Eastern Europe and China. I think that those are the two parts of the developing world that opened up at the same time to all of the international manufacturers. China, thanks to Dung Chao Ping (ph) and Eastern Europe, you know, thanks to the falling of the Berlin Wall. Because of that, because we all got to sort of start at the gate, at the same time, I think we've been able to establish a strong infrastructure, a strong organization and put ourselves in a pretty good position. We're broadly established in those markets. We source in those markets. We have strong local organizations in those markets. And while there is uncertainty as Bill pointed out, I mean if you think about the China issues, the macro economic issues and the banking issues that they face. We comb through this stuff all the time and you know our judgment, at least right now is under a variety of scenarios, it's still going to be pretty okay for the consumer markets that we compete in. The same goes for the mix of countries and mix of businesses that we have in Central and Eastern Europe. I actually believe if you look at our market shares in several of these markets and the size of the markets and the growth rates in the market, we for the most part have much lower market shares in our core businesses and there is a lot of upside for us.  

CLAYT DALEY: I think it is also fair to say, Carl, that we took some prudent risks as A.G. alluded to when the gates opened and we got into these countries early and made some investments that really have paid off and in situations like Russia, when Russia crisis hit, a lot of companies left, and we didn't. We are now reaping the benefits of those decisions.  

CARL KAWAJA: Thanks. I'm really excited about those markets for you guys.  

CLAYT DALEY: Thanks. We are, too.  

OPERATOR: We'll now turn to Linda Bolton Weiser with Oppenheimer.  

LINDA BOLTON WEISER, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER & CO.: Hello, just to follow-on on A.G.'s earlier comments about your targeted premium pricing strategy. In the developing markets, can you give us some sense of the proportion of volume that is sort of specially developed product that is lower priced versus your typical premium type of product in those developing markets?  

A.G. LAFLEY: Oh, my gosh, Linda, it is so different market by market depending on the structure of the market, depending of the range of pricing in each category. We just spent the better part of a week in China with our Board, so I'll give you sort of a few quick examples.  

In the Oral Care business, you know we basically sell two fairly distinct lines of Crest. You know, one is priced in the Chinese premium tier, which is about 20% round numbers of the market. The other is priced to be very accessible to the middle of the market and even accessible on an infrequent usage basis to the low end of the market. But they're different product chasses. They are different product offerings and promises. They are different aesthetic packages and they are very different products. In fact, the mid and lower tier product was developed at the Beijing Technical Center.  

In laundry, it is a similar story. We sell Ariel in the premium tier, we sell one line of Tide in the premium tier, another line of Tide in the mid and low tier. The mid and low product was developed at the Beijing Technical Center. We are very practical. Our strategy is to be the leader in the premium product tier because that's where there's more pricing, more margin, more profit and more cash and that's what gives us the wherewithal to then develop the products for the mid tier. We tend to work premium and mid, first and foremost and we still have a lot of work to do to fill out those tiers in all of the major developing markets.  

Last thing, I will say and this is really important because. I feel sometimes, in these calls we dwell way too much on pricing. It's more about a different target, a different household, a different woman and a different set of needs or it is as much about a different target, a different woman, a different household and a different set of needs as it is about a different price point. We have found that we can't just dilute a product, reduce the price and sell it because it doesn't meet her needs. Her wash conditions are different. It is not machine-aided wash, it is hand wash. Okay. Her dental care preferences are different. Her taste preferences are different. Her hair care habits and practices are different. She doesn't have access to a shower. She may have to draw water from a well or from a spigot in the center of the square. So it really is about an in depth understanding of the consumer, the differences in habits and practices, the difference in needs and wants and then and only then designing the products and brands including the price to meet those needs.  

LINDA BOLTON WEISER: Okay. Great. Thanks very much.  

CLAYT DALEY: Thanks, Linda.  

OPERATOR: We'll now turn to Andrew McQuilling with UBS.  

ANDREW MCQUILLING, ANALYST, UBS WARBURG: Thanks very much. I apologize if I missed it. Clayt, did you state what your emerging market volumes up - were up overall in the quarter?  

CLAYT DALEY: Twenty. Developing markets, 20.  

ANDREW MCQUILLING: 20% and for the nine months to date?  

CLAYT DALEY: Uh, I think last quarter it was 20 -- high teens. So, where you can figure probably high teens.  

ANDREW MCQUILLING: Okay, teriffic. Maybe one more just on Oral care market share is in a couple of markets. Russia, China, Mexico, can you give us an update on your market shares in toothpaste?  

A.G. LAFLEY: Well, they are scrambling for the market shares. Oral care remains one of our fastest growing businesses. I know our shares are up in the US, our shares are up in China although we are still the number two player in China. What were the other two, you asked about Russia -  

ANDREW MCQUILLING: Russia and Mexico. Yes.  

JOHN GOODWIN: Russia is up a two-year high, Andrew.  

ANDREW MCQUILLING: What is that number, John?  

JOHN GOODWIN: About 24%. I mean, obviously, market shares are very difficult to read in some developing markets, but about 24%.  

A.G. LAFLEY: I don't have the Mexico share, do you?  

JOHN GOODWIN: We can certainly get them to you.  

ANDREW MCQUILLING: I was just checking it in. Also given the success of the Simply White in the US, can you talk about any international successes you've had with the product? I know you are doing limited rollout - limited distribution.  

A.G. LAFLEY: Which product is this, Andrew?  

ANDREW MCQUILLING: Simply White. Did I said that A.G., I'm ruining your call.  

A.G. LAFLEY: We are having success with Crest White strips in markets where we are -- most notably Germany is just - has just been a fantastic success. So we are working our way through regulatory approval and we are expanding market by market where it makes sense for the consumer and make sense for the marketplace.  

ANDREW MCQUILLING: Other than Germany have you launched in any other Western European country?  

JOHN GOODWIN: Yes. I mean it's in markets like Italy but it's primarily through the dentist office, Andrew, due to the level of the active as A.G. mentioned, we have to go through that regulatory clearance but in the intervening period, it is going through the dentist office and it is going well.  

ANDREW MCQUILLING: In Germany, is it the Blendax brand?  

A.G. LAFLEY: Yes and our China Oral Care share is a bit above 19.  

ANDREW MCQUILLING: How is China year-over-year? Do you have those numbers?  

A.G. LAFLEY: Yes, it's up more than a full point.  

ANDREW MCQUILLING: Terrific. Thank you very much. Nice quarter.  

A.G. LAFLEY: Thank you.  

OPERATOR: Joseph Altobello with CIBC World Markets.  

JOSEPH ALTOBELLO, ANALYST, CIBC WORLD MARKETS: Thanks, good morning, guys. Just a quick question on Hair care. I believe you said you were taking share in that category is that correct in the US in particular?  

A.G. LAFLEY: Worldwide actually in the US our share is flat. Remember in the US, Joe, we've had two major launches right from competition. We've had the Dove launch and (inaudible) launch. What has worked well for us in the US is Pantene, which is at a record share level. We've done pretty well on Head & Shoulders and on our niche brands. Herbal Essences has given up some share because it's the brand that is most similar to Brooktus (ph) in the US. On the other hand Herbal is growing at a rate of 20 plus percent in worldwide markets.  

CLAYT DALEY: As you know, the market is data rich in the US, but not in most international markets. We're gaining share in Europe, Japan, China, we're doing very well.  

A.G. LAFLEY: Our top line growth in Hair care is now double-digit, which is what we aspired to. We didn't know if we could get there because we have such a big base. You know, it's our share performance is really good. I mean, we are up in the latest period we are up over 3 points in the UK, we are up over 2 points in Germany, we are up over 3 points in Mexico, over 2 points in Spain, 2.5 points in France. Almost 2 points in Russia. I could go down the list. So It is a very strong - it's a very strong, very global business for us.  

JOSEPH ALTOBELLO: Okay. It sounds like one of your larger European competitors is rethinking its US hair care portfolio at this point. Does this present an opportunity for you guys? If so which brand do you think would gain proportionally from that?  

A.G. LAFLEY: Well, Joe, I don't want to speculate, you know, I don't want to speculate until I -.  

JOSEPH ALTOBELLO: It is a leading question.  

A.G. LAFLEY: I don't want to speculate until I see the move on the chessboard, okay. It's interesting because you know our experience over the last four years has been that strong brands get stronger in general. You know, and you look at a brand like Pantene. I remember when Pantene crossed a billion in sales and we were all looking at each other and going my God how can you sell a billion dollars worth of a Hair care brand that is essentially a shampoo, and conditioner and treatment brand. Now we are over $2 billion. Pantene just goes from strength to strength in many markets around the world. The old wives' tale used to be that the hair care business was highly fragmented and that there were new brands every decade. We are actually finding that is not the case. You can build a strong brand and you can build it in multi-markets and regions around the world and if the core promise is highly relevant and important and if the product is right there with her changing needs and wants you can keep growing that business. So I think our growth will come from our big core brands, which are Pantene, Head & Shoulders, Herbal Essences.  

JOSEPH ALTOBELLO: Okay. Great. Thanks.  

OPERATOR: We'll go to Chris Ferraro (ph) with Merrill Lynch.  

CHRIS FERRARO, ANALYST, WITH MERRILL LYNCH: Good morning. How you doing?  

CLAYT DALEY: Good.  

CHRIS FERRARO: I'm wondering if you could talk a little bit about the Bounty brand? I know you are seeing a lot of competition in the market, yet you were up double-digits. Can you talk about how that is happening?  

A.G. LAFLEY: Well, I think Chris, Bounty is, has been and we intend will continue to be the strongest brand franchise certainly in the U.S. market, which is the biggest and most profitable. Tissue or as I should say, kitchen towel market in the world. I think it is not unlike some of our other strong brands. We have a clear promise. We promise superiority. We deliver it in a unique and proprietary product and process. We have sustained a steady diet of innovation. We -- the innovations that are out there right now are self-select, we have new prints, we have new pack sizes and I think you'll see a steady diet of innovation in the months and year ahead.  

CHRIS FERRARO: Got it. One more on I guess on the tissue pricing. Can we expect the magnitude of facial tissue price increases to mirror what you've done in the rest of the tissue business?  

CLAYT DALEY: We have not made any comments yet on facial tissue pricing. We can't comment on that today.  

CHRIS FERRARO: Got it. Thank you.  

OPERATOR: That is all the time we have for questions today. Gentlemen, I will go ahead and turn the call back to you for any additional or closing remarks.  

CLAYT DALEY: Thanks very much for being with us today. As I said at the beginning, we're here for follow-up questions as needed. And thanks again for joining us.  

OPERATOR: With that, we will conclude today's conference. Thank you, everyone, for your participation.  

[CCBN reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES CCBN ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. ]  

   CO
prgml : The Procter & Gamble Company
   IN
i25 : Chemicals | i258 : Cosmetics/Toiletries | icnp : Consumer Products
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
FDCH e-Media
   AN
Document FNDW000020040514e04u000h6
  


 HD
 Q2  2004  Procter  & Gamble Company Earnings Conference Call - Final  
   WC
11,078 words
   PD
28 January 2004
   SN
FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
(c) Copyright 2004 CCBN and FDCH e-Media.  

   LP
OPERATOR: Good day, everyone, and welcome to the Procter & Gamble second-quarter earnings release conference call. Just a reminder, today's call is being recorded. The rebroadcast, reproduction or retransmission of this conference call, in whole or in part, is strictly prohibited without the prior written consent of Procter & Gamble Company.  

At this time, for opening remarks and introductions, I'd like to turn the call over to the Chief Financial Officer, Mr. Clay Daley. Please go ahead, sir.  

   TD
CLAY DALEY, CFO, PROCTER & GAMBLE: Thank you and good morning. Welcome to Procter & Gamble's quarter-end conference call. A.G. Lafley, our CEO, Juan Pedro Hernandez, our outgoing Treasurer, and John Goodwin, our newly appointed Treasurer, join me this morning.  

I will begin the call today with a summary of our second-quarter results. Juan Pedro will cover our results by operating segment and I will wrap up with our expectations for the March quarter and the fiscal year. A.G. will join the call for the Q&As and as always, following the call, Juan Pedro, John Goodwin, Thomas Tippel (ph), our newly appointed IR Director, and I will be available to provide additional perspective as needed.  

Now, onto the December quarter results. We delivered another quarter of sales above our long-term objective behind strong organic volume growth. This strong growth is coming on top of a record-volume quarter in 2002.  

Diluted net earnings per share were $1.30, at the top end of our revised guidance. Diluted EPS was up 23 percent versus prior-year reported EPS of $1.06 per share, which included 7 cents per share of restructuring program charges. Excluding the (indiscernible) restructuring charges, EPS was up 15 percent.  

Second-quarter net sales were 13.2 billion, up 20 percent. Acquisitions and divestitures contributed 10 percent to sales growth, primarily driven by Wella. Foreign exchange helped sales by another 4 percent. FX health was due to strengthen in the euro, the Canadian dollar, the British pound and the Japanese yen, which more than offset weakness in some developing-market currencies.  

Organic sales growth was up 6 percent. This is the sixth consecutive quarter where our organic sales growth has been at or above our long-term target.  

Reported volume increased 19 percent. Organic volume grew a very strong 9 percent. All business units in all regions delivered solid growth, with Health care, Beauty care and developing markets continuing to set the pace.  

Health care grew 17 percent behind continued strong results on Prilosec and oral care initiatives. The North American flu epidemic propelled our cough and cold business to an exceptional quarter. The respiratory volume in the quarter is not expected to be incremental for the fiscal year. The U.S. Centers for Disease Control already reported that incidents of cold and flu in North America had declined significantly as of January. This indicates that while the cough/cold season peak has come earlier this year, there may be new impact on the total cough/cold market for the entire season.  

Beauty care volume grew 45 percent with double-digit organic growth plus the addition of Wella. Organic growth was driven by broad-based strength in hair care, feminine care and personal beauty care.  

As discussed in our December analyst meeting, meeting with more of the world's consumers is a key part of our topline growth strategy. Today, only about 20 percent of our business is in developing markets, compared to 25 to 45 percent for our major competitors. But we're catching up, making good progress against this large growth opportunity. Developing market volume grew nearly 20 percent, more than double the average Company growth rate. As expected, the disproportionate growth in developing markets results in negative mix, which came in at minus 2 percent on the quarter. Our exceptional growth in developing markets at margins comparable to the Company average is an indicator that we are executing a sustainable business model.  

Pricing was down 1 percent versus a year ago due to continued promotion pending in the U.S. tissue and coffee markets and selected price adjustments on fabric and home care brands.  

Next, onto earnings and margin performance. As a reminder, these comparisons are versus core results in the base period. Gross margin improved by 140 basis points to 52.2 percent. About half of the improvement was driven by scale (ph) leverage from higher volume; the other half was driven by business mix shifts towards faster growing health and beauty care businesses, mainly from the addition of Wella.  

Marketing, Research and Administrative costs increased 120 basis points. The majority of the increase is driven by the addition of Wella. The balance of the increase reflects continued investment to support our product and marketing initiatives and our topline results are evidence that the product and marketing plans are working.  

For now, we are very comfortable that our profit growth is being driven more by topline growth than by margin expansion.  

Operating income was up 15 percent to $2.7 billion during the quarter. The operating margin decline of 90 basis points versus last year was due to Wella -- in line with prior guidance.  

Now, onto cash. Operating cash flow in the quarter was 2.4 billion, in line with the same period a year ago. Strong cash earnings were partly offset by somewhat higher working capital needs as the business grows at an accelerated pace. Note that the acquisition impact for Wella shows up in the investing section of the cash flow statement. The operating cash impacts of Wella since the acquisition were not material.  

Free cash flow for the quarter was $1.9 billion. This was modestly below the December quarter of last year due to higher capital expenditures. Capital expenditures for the quarter were 3.4 percent of sales, very consistent with expectations and below our long-term target of 4 percent. Free cash flow productivity was 105 percent for the quarter, and we are on track to deliver the year at or above our long-term target of 90 percent.  

Now, I will turn it over to Juan Pedro for a discussion of business unit results by segment.  

JUAN PEDRO HERNANDEZ, TREASURER, PROCTER & GAMBLE: Thank you, Clay. The Fabric and Home Care Business unit delivered excellent results for the quarter, posting all-time record volume sales and earnings. Volume grew 9 percent and sales were 3.4 billion, up 10 percent. The strong topline was driven by double-digit volume growth from Tide, Gain, Era, Swiffer and Mr. Clean. Sales growth includes a 4 percent benefit from FX, which was largely offset by mix and pricing. Negative mix was driven faster growth of laundry products in developing markets, partially offset by positive mix from Swiffer Duster, Mr. Clean Magic Eraser and (indiscernible) products.  

Pricing is mainly due to prior-period changes that have not get annualized and reductions from Middle East laundry brands to much competitive actions (ph).  

Earnings increased 11 percent to $570 million, driven by the strong volume results and, to a lesser extent, product cost savings.  

Fabric Care delivered another quarter of growth-based volume and share growth. Eleven of P&G's top 16 countries posted share increases. In the U.S., P&G's laundry (indiscernible) volume share grew (indiscernible) 2.3 percentage points and Fabric Enhancer share grew 2.4 percentage points behind Gain expansion. Volume growth was also broad-based, led by developing markets up more than 20 percent.  

Home Care delivered another vigorous home quarter on all major brands. In the U.S., the past three months, all (indiscernible) shares for Swiffer is up 11.1 percentage points. Mr. Clean is up 3.1 percentage points. Downy is up 2.5 percentage points and Cascade is up 1.9 percentage points. This share improvement is behind new product such as Swiffer Duster, Mr. Clean Magic Eraser and Mr. Clean Ultra Dry that are also helping to expand the Home Care category for retainers.  

Beauty Care volume increased 45 percent behind the Wella acquisition. Organic care volume grew 10 percent on strong results in the skin care, hair care and feminine care segments.  

Sales increased 50 percent to 4.5 billion. Foreign exchange held sales by 5 percentage points. Organic sales grew 10 percent.  

Earnings for the quarter were $681 million, up 34 percent versus a year ago. Earnings growth was driven by base business, volume growth and cost savings, plus the addition of Wella. These strong results funded increased marketing investments to support new initiatives and strengthen plans in hair care and skin care.  

Global hair care delivered growth-based volume growth as Pantene, Head & Shoulders, Rejoice, and Herbal Essences all increased double digits. Herbal Essences volume was up over 40 percent outside North America.  

U.S. hair care (indiscernible) outlet (ph) volume share was up slightly despite heavy competitive activity. Pantene continued to grow market share in the U.S. with past three months all outlet share (ph) up 1.4 percentage points to 16 percent. That was behind continued leverage of product initiatives, effective advertising and a strong trade support.  

Olay global volume grew by over 25 percent for the quarter, led by growth in the U.S. and China. In the U.S., the past three months all-outlet (ph) share for Olay (indiscernible) facial moisturizers increased 5 percentage points to 35 percent. In China, Olay volume share grew by 7 percentage points to over 27 percent. The strong results in both regions have been driven by the success of the new Olay Regenerist line-up and the continued growth of Olay Total Effects and base brand products.  

Feminine Care quarterly volume growth was also growth-based. Developed-market volume grew high single digits and developing markets grew high teens. In the U.S., volume share improved in each of the key segments. The past three months, all-outlet share for Always pads increased 2.9 percentage points. Alldays panty liners were up 2 percentage points and Tampax tampons grew 1.5 percentage points.  

Next, Baby and Family Care, which delivered solid topline results in a difficult competitive environment -- volume grew 4 percent globally, led by Baby Care -- up high single digits. Sales increased 6 percent to 2.7 billion. FX help of 5 percent was partially offset by pricing of minus 1 percent and mix of minus 2 percent. Lower pricing was mainly due to increased spending in North America Family Care to counter higher competitive promotional activity. Mix was primarily driven by expansion of volume-tiered diapers in developing markets.  

Quarterly earnings continued to be healthy at $281 million. This was an increase of 2 percent versus an exceptionally strong base period which had increased 21 percent. Earnings in Baby Care increased due to volume and cost savings, largely offset by pricing investments and pricing commodity costs in Family Care.  

Western Europe Baby Care continues to grow share. The past three months, diaper volume share was 53 percent, up 3.7 percentage points versus a year ago, driven by strong results in the UK, France and Germany.  

In the U.S., the past three months estimated all-outlet (ph) volume share for P&G diaper business was 36.9 percent, down versus a year ago. Pampers diapers was up 0.6 percentage points to 27.5 versus a strong base period. Luvs estimated all-outlet share was 9.4 percent, down due mainly to lower distribution levels which have been corrected in January.  

Latin American Baby Care had another very strong quarter with shipments growing more than 40 percent versus a year ago. Pampers is now the value share leader at all major Latin American markets where it competes, except Mexico.  

Family Care grew the past three months all-outlet volume share in the U.S. by (indiscernible) percentage points to 30.7 percent, driven by Charmin and Puffs and despite escalating competitive promotional spending.  

P&G continues to maintain product performance (indiscernible) in the tissue/towel category. We will launch an improved Charmin Ultra product in April, 2004. The upgrade brings significant softness, fitness, wet strength and absorbency advantages over all competitive products.  

Health Care continued its very strong momentum on volume sales and earnings growth. Volume grew 17 percent, with personal health care, pharmaceuticals and oral care all growing by 20 percent or more. Sales were $1.9 billion, an increase of 22 percent. FX helped sales by 4 percent and pricing added 1 percent. Earnings for the quarter were 333 million, an increase of 32 percent, driven by a strong volume performance, pricing and mix helps, and cost savings.  

Personal health care results were driven by a very strong quarter for the Vicks brand. As we mentioned in our pre-announcement on January 9th, Vicks benefited from the early and severe cold and flu season in North America. P&G's all-outlet value share of the U.S. cough and cold market grew 1 percentage point to 19.2 percent.  

Also, Prilosec delivered a very good quarter following the successful launch in September. Prilosec all-outlet value share of U.S. stomach remedies is approximately 20 percent, the leader in the category.  

Pharmaceuticals delivered another excellent quarter on the strong growth of Actonel. Actonel's share of global (indiscernible) for the treatment of osteoporosis rose to nearly 26 percent in the last reported period.  

Oral Care grew quarterly volume in developing markets by more than 30 percent behind the growth of value-tier offerings and innovation on the premium tier. In developed markets, oral care volume grew in the mid teens behind product innovations on DentiFreeze (ph) and tooth whitening.  

Crest DentiFreeze past three months U.S. all-outlet volume share increased by an outstanding 3.9 percentage points to 34.6 percent, driven mainly by the Crest Whitening Expressions launch. The Whitening Expressions lineup is about 5 percent share and is now the number two segment of the Crest business.  

Crest share of the U.S. tooth whitening systems is now nearly 70 percent. This does not yet include the impact of our latest innovation, Crest Whitestrips Premium, which launched earlier this month.  

Last, Snack and Beverages delivered solid earnings growth on the quarter. Volume increased 1 percent. Sales were $931 million, up 6 percent. FX helped sales by 4 percent. Mix improvements of 3 percent were partially offset by negative pricing. Pricing investments were to support the continued high level of promotional activity in the coffee category.  

Earnings were $122 million, an increase of 11 percent behind the volume and mix improvements on lower MRA&O spending. Pringles past three months global value share improved by 0.3 percentage points. Folgers past three months U.S. all-outlet value share grew 0.9 percentage points to over 38 percent. Folgers will continue to focus on protecting share with product innovations and improving long-term margins through cost saving programs.  

That concludes the business unit review. I will turn the call back to Clay.  

CLAY DALEY: Thanks, Juan Pedro. Before closing with guidance, I want to provide a brief update on the progress of the Wella acquisition. Based on the early reviews and results to date, we continue to be very encouraged by the strength of the Wella business and especially by the depth and skill and knowledge of the Wella people. We confirm our expectations that the acquisition will be nondilutive to P&G's fiscal 2004 earnings per share results.  

Wella will be releasing their fourth-quarter results in the next few weeks. As you recall, those results will be prepared under IAS, or International Accounting Standards. Many of the rules differ big between IAS and U.S. GAAP -- for example, the classification of the expenses between MRA&O versus net sales and the timing of expense recognition. We've adjusted the Wella results to U.S. GAAP for consolidation in our results. As a result, the information that will be released by Wella will differ from that consolidated with P&G's results.  

As you may know, some Wella minority shareholders have called for an extraordinary shareholder meeting on February 3rd. We believe this event provides no added value to Wella's business. The allegations by the hedge funds are baseless. P&G has complied with and will continue to comply with all of the applicable laws in Germany. P&G is the majority shareholder, has full confidence in Heiner Gurtler's ability to manage Wella in the best interest of all long-term shareholders.  

We also want to assure our investors that P&G remains confident in our ability to deliver the synergies outlined in our acquisition announcements. This is despite the negative PR and legal activities undertaken by the hedge funds. Note that the 300 million euro synergies will fall primarily in the books of P&G and can be achieved under the current ownership structure. Of course, all collaborative activity between Wella and P&G will be arms length and will be fully defensible from a legal standpoint.  

Now, onto guidance. For the March quarter, we forecast organic volume growth, excluding acquisitions and divestitures, in the high single digits. We expect this will be driven by strength in Fabric and Home Care, Health and Beauty Care and developing markets. FX should help sales by 2 to 3 percent in the quarter. Acquisitions and divestitures are anticipated to add 7 to 9 percent to sales.  

All-in total sales are projected to grow 14 to 18 percent. Organic sales are expected to grow 5 to 7 percent. Operating margin is expected to decline by 90 to 120 basis points. Excluding the impact of Wella, operating margins should be about flat.  

On EPS, the current consensus estimate for the quarters is at the upper end of our expectations, as the early cough/cold season pulled earnings forward into the December quarter. The strong first-half results of averaging 14 percent earnings growth provide a good basis to leverage our initiative program over the second half of the fiscal year. Reported EPS growth should come in at about 25 percent for the June/June (ph) period. Excluding the impact of prior-year restructuring charges, earnings per share are expected to grow about 10 percent for the second half of the fiscal year, in line with the Company's long-term targets and on top of a strong base period where EPS grew 14 percent.  

We expect gross margin improvements to be reinvested in higher marketing research and admin to support the strong initiative pipeline in Fabric and Home Care and Beauty Care and to defend against competitive launches in Family Care. We want to make sure we are well positioned to deliver target topline growth going into next fiscal year.  

For this fiscal year, the investments to support our strong initiative pipeline are expected to drive 5 to 7 percent organic sales growth -- at or above the high end of our long-term growth objectives. (indiscernible) sales should increase 13 to 17 percent for the year.  

In summary, we are expecting another year of double-digit earnings growth. We are comfortable with the current consensus coming at 12 percent, coming on top of a strong base-period comparison where earnings grew 13 percent.  

That concludes the business comments for the quarter. As you know, this discussion has included a number of forward-looking statements. If you will refer to our most recent 10-K and 8-K reports, you will see a discussion of factors that could cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from these projections.  

As required by Regulation G, we need to make sure that you're aware that, during the call, we made a number of references to non-GAAP measures. Management believes that these measures provide our investors valuable information on the underlying growth trends of our business. The only difference between reported and core amounts is the restructuring charges in the base period. Organic refers to reported results, excluding the impact of foreign exchange and acquisitions and divestitures where applicable. Free cash flow represents operating cash flow less capital expenditures. We have posted on our Web site,  www.PG.com, a full reconciliation of non-GAAP measures to U.S. GAAP to provide additional clarification.  

Before we turn to the question-and-answer period, I want to simply take this opportunity to recognize Juan Pedro Hernandez for the excellent work he has done as Treasurer of the Company over the last two years and for his significant contributions to our Investor Relations effort. This will be his last quarter-end conference call. Thanks, Juan Pedro.  

JUAN PEDRO HERNANDEZ: Thank you.  

CLAY DALEY: A.G., Juan Pedro, John and I will be happy to open up the call to questions.  

OPERATOR: The question-and-answer session will be conducted electronically. (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS). Amy Lou (ph) Chasen from Goldman Sachs.  

AMY LOU CHASEN, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS & CO.: Good morning. Can you talk a little bit --? It looks like Wella's volume in the quarter was a little bit better than you had anticipated. Number one, is that the case? Number two, can you talk about why?  

CLAY DALEY: Obviously, we measure volume in physical or what we call statistical cases. We had completed the first steps of finalizing the case definitions for Wella during the quarter, so (indiscernible) the Wella numbers were good although partly that was a function of how we finalized how we defined cases at Wella in comparison to the rest of the Company.  

UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER: They were solid in their professional salon business. Amy, they had a strong fragrance quarter.  

CLAY DALEY: Strong fragrance quarter going into the holidays.  

AMY LOU CHASEN: Great. Just on the working capital side, I understand, obviously, the negative implications of Wella on your working capital, but there was also a comment in the press release suggesting that the month of December was particularly strong and that that may have driven some of the increase. Can you elaborate on that?  

CLAY DALEY: The strong finish in December had an impact on Accounts Receivable. Obviously, that's not -- in the broad scheme of things, that's not bad, but because we shipped extra business. But from a working capital standpoint, it resulted in Accounts Receivable going up a bit versus our earlier expectations.  

AMY LOU CHASEN: Was there any sort of incremental inventory in the trade, or is that because of the strong cost -- (multiple speakers)?  

CLAY DALEY: Mostly that and I'll tell you, based on the information we have, trade inventories are in control. I mean, this (indiscernible) consumption.  

AMY LOU CHASEN: Okay, so then we should see that reverse in the March quarter?  

CLAY DALEY: We should see that reverse to a degree, yes.  

AMY LOU CHASEN: Last but not least, just on the profitability in the paper business, the Baby and Family Care business, you talked a little bit about it and about the competitive environment. Can you just elaborate a little bit more on how you see those profit trends evolving over the next several quarters, given that the levels of competition are likely to remain fairly high?  

A.G. LAFLEY, CEO, PROCTER & GAMBLE: One quick comment on your working capital question -- if you step back and look at quarter by quarter over ten-plus years, our Accounts Receivable are in control and, as best we can tell, best-in-class in the industry. Our inventory is also in control and as we've said before, we are working hard on trying to find a way to get a (indiscernible) there starting in Health and Beauty Care.  

On Baby and Family Care profitability, fiscal year to date, earnings are actually up 11 percent in those two businesses. We are seeing more innovation in the Baby Care business, especially in the U.S., and we are seeing more price-discounting and merchandising intensity, plus some innovation in the Family Care business. But we are going to stay the course on the strategies that we are on.  

Baby Care -- I feel pretty doggone good about the business. We are growing handsomely in Western Europe; we're growing in Latin America; we're growing in Central and Eastern Europe, and Pampers is up in the U.S. despite some really terrific innovation from our best competitor. So, it's sort of a good time to be a young mom. There are a lot of good choices; there's a lot of innovation out there and the competition is, for the most part, healthy because it's on the basis of innovation and brand.  

In the Family Care business, at least in the U.S., there were some somewhat troubling developments this last quarter because of sort of the amount of promotion and the discounting. I think we've sort of seen these cycles; they come for quarter or so. We have talked about them over last three years. The first thing we have to do is make sure that we stay within our price gap. Recall, we command the premium; we command the premium on Downy and we command the small premium on Charmin; we just have to make sure that the premium stays within the threshold, so that is job one. Job two and far more important job is to bring more innovation, more differentiation and more meaningful value to consumers and customers. You're going to see a very robust program for us in the next twelve months.  

AMY LOU CHASEN: So, in terms of the profitability trend in that -- (Multiple Speakers)?  

A.G. LAFLEY: I haven't changed their goal.  

JUAN PEDRO HERNANDEZ: Amy, in addition to the increased profitability, our capital requirements are at a smaller (inaudible) lower than they were in this segment. So, we are reducing CapEx as we improve profitability.  

A.G. LAFLEY: I think the simple way to think about it in Baby Care is when you have broad strength around the world, particularly in Western Europe, so we can manage.  

CLAY DALEY: We're not worried about the profit trend on the year.  

OPERATOR: Carol Wilke with Merrill Lynch.  

CAROL WILKE, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH GLOBAL SECURITIES: Good morning. I was just curious on the bigger picture, on the pricing and promotional front versus, say, three months ago. Have your expectations changed in that it will probably accelerate more than you thought? It just seems like it continues to be very heavy and I was just curious if there has been anything that's changed from a few months ago on the outlook on the whole pricing/promotion front?  

A.G. LAFLEY: I think if you step back and look at our business as a whole, one of the unique characteristics of P&G is our diversity across industries and sectors. We are trying to -- and now we're building our diversity in geographies, developing and developed. So, we are operating in a lot of businesses that are driving a lot of growth for us that are not particularly price-intensive or promotion-sensitive. You know, that's one of the virtues of the health and beauty care and personal care businesses; that's one of the virtues, frankly, of several of the developing markets.  

The second thing I would say is I think if you look broadly across our major businesses, there has been a positive move on not only our part but also several of our major competitors to more innovation-based growth. I mean, we've seen -- without boring you with all the details -- probably more innovation in 2003 from our competitors -- you know, two major new hair care brands in the U.S. supported with 100 million or more launches from Unilever and Loreal -- major product upgrades from Casey in Baby Care, you know, a new Dove line of skin care products, Colgate Simply white -- I could go on and on. But it's been across -- I think the thing that we've been heartened -- one of the things that is heartening for us is that, despite very high levels of competitive activity and innovation, we're still delivering the kind of volume increases were delivering; we're still building share on kind of two-thirds or better of our business, which means consumers are voting for our products.  

So there are always a couple pockets of price intensity. We happened to have one in Family Care this last quarter, but I would say, broadly across most of our businesses, one of the virtues of our businesses is that we can operate on the basis of branding and innovation.  

AMY LOU CHASEN: Can I just ask one other follow-up? On the Baby Care business, your business in Western Europe is clearly still very strong, even though the product cycle now I think has been over a year and a half or more than two years since the whole Baby Stages. In the U.S., you commented that there has been a lot of competitive, new products that have actually been helping that company gain some share back. When you look at the two regions, do you think that the U.S. trend is going to swing to Europe or that what you're seeing in Europe is going to come back to the U.S.?  

A.G. LAFLEY: I think they are totally independent markets with totally different dynamics. In Western Europe, you know, we are back well above a 50 share and we are growing strong -- 53-plus share, and we're growing strongly across virtually every market.  

You have to remember that the competition is more fragmented. We are the only major player that is in every major market, and we have been leading on the innovation. There's still a lot of upside for Baby Stage of development-type diapers and there's still a lot of upside for pull-ons in that market. Now, we are over three times (indiscernible) the competitor in Western Europe, so it's a totally different market.  

In the U.S., as I've said before, we got behind -- P&G got behind back in the '80s when Casey (ph) did a terrific job with the foreign introduction. What you've seen from us is sort of the first round of innovation coming back. I think you're going to see a period of 5 to 10 years of tremendous innovation in the U.S. market (indiscernible) mature markets but the competitive dynamics are very different because they are two big plays in the U.S.  

The third thing I would mention is we still have a lot of heart for -- and I think you've seen this in some of our briefings -- the developing markets, so we're very encouraged by what we're seeing in Latin America; we're very encourage by what we're seeing in Central and Eastern Europe, even in China. You know, they are not huge contributors to profitability right now, but that's where the babies are going to be born in the next 10, 20, 30 years.  

OPERATOR: Wendy Nicholson with Salomon Smith Barney.  

WENDY NICHOLSON, ANALYST, SALOMON SMITH BARNEY: Good morning. Could you talk a little bit more just specifically about the developing and emerging markets? I think you've seen an acceleration in your volume growth there over the next couple quarters. I'm trying to, number one, ask sort of the sustainability of the high teens, 20 percent-type volume growth? But number two, is what you're seeing there more kind of a trouncing of the competitors, if you will, like you've done in the U.S. in part, or is it just the global economic environment getting better and the categories growing more rapidly?  

A.G. LAFLEY: You know, this is very difficult to generalize across so many countries and so many markets but clearly, there is market growth that can be stimulated and there are new categories that can be created.  

I think what's happening with us -- because I think many of our competitors are doing pretty well in developing markets too -- I think what's happening with us, Wendy, is we are starting to create the capabilities we set out to create across more of our businesses -- low or no capital, manufacturing platforms, sourcing that has more local content, true mid-tier offerings that are innovative and hit price points that stimulate more consumption. You know, a lot of what goes on in developing markets is, in the beginning, the consumer can only afford to buy the brand and product in a category on an infrequent basis. You know, a baby diaper for the overnight occasion, for example. As we have been able to get the pricing down, we are dramatically increasing the growth of the hair care market, the skin care market, the baby care market.  

CLAY DALEY: Having said that, our share results in these markets are pretty good too.  

CAROL WILKE: I was going to say, I don't think any of your competitors are putting up 20 percent volume growth for D&Es (ph) as a whole.  

A.G. LAFLEY: Our shares are growing but in a lot of these markets, once you get outside of let's say oral care and maybe baby care, our toughest competition is often local -- you know, local players. So, I just think it's sustainable for a while. I don't know whether we will run it at this high of a rate when these are our base -- (multiple speakers) -- but in certain markets, I mean, if you look at China over several years, Russia over several years, we have been, in certain markets, been able to run pretty high double-digit growth on a sustained basis. So, it's definitely a growth engine for us because our starting development is lower than our competitors and we're getting the benefit of markets that are growing faster and our innovation is starting to work there.  

CAROL WILKE: Lastly, could you kind of characterize -- I mean, clearly, China and Eastern Europe sound like they are growing well into the double digits. Is Latin America also growing double-digit?  

A.G. LAFLEY: Actually up double-digits in Latin America for the first half of the year in volume of sales -- (multiple speakers) -- but that's pretty encouraging. We haven't done that for a couple of years.  

CAROL WILKE: That sounds terrific! Thanks a lot.  

OPERATOR: Ann Gillin-Lefever with Lehman Brothers.  

ANN GILLIN-LEFEVER, ANALYST, LEHMAN BROTHERS: I just wanted to go back to Family Care. I guess if we combine (indiscernible) one quarter phenomenon, but the combination of the highly competitive environment and rising input costs sounds like it's great for the consumer but horrible for manufacturers. I'm just wondering if you can comment a little bit more on outlook there?  

A.G. LAFLEY: Well, I guess I would say three things. One, we have one competitor who has clearly been more aggressive -- price-discounting, selling private-label to major retailers -- who now has an upgrade and who is spending mightily behind the upgrade. So that will continue for some time, okay?  

What we've learned in the past is, until you restore the price gaps and until you bring your innovation, you don't -- how shall we say this? You don't get back to what I would call rational pricing -- (multiple speakers) -- pricing behavior and discounting behavior.  

So we will go through this episode. I don't know how long it will be. I don't think it's going to be three years; I think we're talking a couple of quarters.  

The second thing I will say is you are right; there are some headwinds in this business and there are some structural challenges in this business. The structural challenges have always been there. On the headwinds, we will have to see how the (inaudible) and energy costs develop.  

The third thing I would say, for us -- you know, Family Care is less than 10 percent of our portfolio -- (multiple speakers) -- so we can easily handle and shock-absorb these kinds of issues because we have such a diverse industry line-up and because all of our businesses are contributing to our sales growth and virtually -- all but one or so -- are contributing to our profit growth. So that puts us in a situation where we really can manage for the mid and long-term and not get too caught up in the short-term pricing game.  

ANN GILLIN-LEFEVER: That's very helpful, thank you. Just a follow-up -- given it's maybe early in terms of input costs, headwinds, I'm wondering what you're early read is as far as retailers' reaction in North America and Western Europe to allowing some price increases to go through.  

A.G. LAFLEY: (LAUGHTER). I guess the first thing I would say is there are actually retailers who, after several years, are saying, you know, there is probably going to be some pricing in our industry. So, I think their minds are open to it. It comes down to case-by-case category (inaudible).  

CLAY DALEY: What it usually comes down to is the pricing really justified?  

A.G. LAFLEY: If it's cost-justified, we really have never had a major problem on pricing. I mean, we routinely price coffee based on the input price of green beans, so I think, I expect -- in most cases, people end up being rational.  

ANN GILLIN-LEFEVER: It sounds like posture is improving, though, from your reaction?  

A.G. LAFLEY: I think the posture is improving.  

CLAY DALEY: I think they understand the situation.  

OPERATOR: Bill Piccarillo (ph) from Morgan Stanley.  

BILL PICCARILLO, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: I had a follow-up on Wella. In the mid-quarterly update last week when they talked about the consumer segment being down, can you talk about any impact you're seeing there? Is that any disruption on the integration which is focused on that part of the business? You had originally anticipated Wella could be slightly dilutive in the quarter. It came in accretive. Was that driven by stronger topline, despite the consumer segment being down?  

CLAY DALEY: As I think we said earlier, they had a good fragrance season in the quarter, which was helpful from a dilution standpoint. While the consumer business has certainly not been growing and what we would like to see, it's actually relatively flat as opposed to a big problem.  

A.G. LAFLEY: It's also, Bill, the smallest piece of their business.  

BILL PICCARILLO: Just in the U.S. beauty with the Loreal (indiscernible) stepped up in a number of products they have been introducing, you mentioned that you stepped up your marketing investment in the U.S. Can you just give us some more specifics behind that? Is it stepped-up pace of innovation, in-store activity, etc.?  

A.G. LAFLEY: I think, Bill, what you're seeing is a lot of innovation from Loreal and P&G and others. Even Unilever, water (ph) in their channels in beauty care and the pickup in marketing that you're seeing from us is simply investment in awareness and trial activity; most of it is advertising and other trial activity.  

So, the great thing about the beauty care business and the health care business, for the most part, is that the marketing investments are on the demand-creation side and the trial side; they're not on the discounting side.  

CLAY DALEY: Some of this is a play-out of our launch and leverage program, where we are building business on Pantene and continuing to drive the big base brands as opposed to necessarily needing to introduce new products, as competitors have, in order to move the business.  

A.G. LAFLEY: One of the things that's worked for us in all of our businesses but particularly in HABA, is we've brought innovation across our established, leading brands; we've brought innovation to create new segments -- you know, daily facials, Crest Whitestrips, those kinds of things, totally new segments -- and we've been able to stimulate some category growth.  

BILL PICCARILLO: Thank you.  

OPERATOR: Andrew Shore with Deutsche Bank.  

ANDREW SHORE, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Good morning. Can you give us a little bit of an understanding in terms of what are you doing with Charmin Ultra to make it softer? If I am right, I think you already use 100 percent eucalyptus, so what are you doing to make it softer? Is this going to be a list change, or are you going to downsheet it, or is it going to be at parity with current Charmin Ultra pricing?  

CLAY DALEY: Well, I think, Andrew, there have been a number of -- the technology that we have in tissue is flexible in terms of creating softness improvements, which don't necessarily relate to pulp mix but relate to formation of the sheet on the machine. Our folks have always -- I think it's safe to say we've been a leader in terms of how to develop softness upgrades over time.  

You know, on the sheeting, we are going to be sheeting down by some amount. Therefore, fewer sheets does create more thickness and more loft on the sheet.  

A.G. LAFLEY: But at least in our testing, Andrew, it has been a consumer value winner. But I think you know we've been (indiscernible) drying for a couple of decades and what's really going on is we think we are -- we keep getting up the money for it.  

CLAY DALEY: Actually, our data, over a long period of time, suggests that when we provide, shall we say, thicker, more functional sheets, the consumer does tend to use fewer sheets. So even though there are fewer sheets on the roll, there aren't necessarily a reduction in functionality (sic).  

ANDREW SHORE: But it's not going to have more pulp, right? It's just (indiscernible) change on the manufacturing side?  

CLAY DALEY: Correct.  

ANDREW SHORE: A.G., I think when you referred to (indiscernible) professional, you said solid. Is that solid in the context of Loreal that's growing three 1to four times faster than professional?  

A.G. LAFLEY: Loreal is growing faster than us in the short-term but we are in pretty good shape in a number of leading markets. I'm not overly concerned about the professional business; they have a very strong -- we have a very strong number two position, number one in some markets.  

I think the big uncertainty phase was actually several months ago for women who frequent these salons. The traffic numbers are actually improving and of course, in the short-term, Loreal tried to take advantage in certain markets but I think that's a pretty solid business.  

OPERATOR: Joe Altobello with CIBC World Markets.  

JOE ALTOBELLO, ANALYST, CIBC WORLD MARKETS: Good morning, guys. We are now roughly five months removed, I guess, from the closing of the Wella acquisition. I was curious what your thought are on potential future acquisitions. I think, in the past, you said that, in a perfect world, you would take one to two years to integrate Wella and then look at do another acquisition but would consider a unique opportunity. I was curious if that is still your mindset at this point?  

CLAY DALEY: As we've said before, Joe, in most cases, we don't decide when these things come up for sale, so we have to, in general, act on potential targets when they are available. We are always, of course, looking for smaller, more tack-on kinds of acquisitions, as we did (indiscernible) Colgate detergent business in Europe and things of that ilk.  

The big ones are ones where -- we are prepared to move if the right thing comes on the market. You know, you've seen our balance sheet; our cash position is strong. You know, we have, we think, an organization structure now that makes acquisition integration much easier than where we were before in terms of being able to integrate acquisitions (indiscernible) and our GBS organizations.  

On the other hand, as we've also said, we are also very happy to repurchase our stock if those major acquisitions aren't there, and that's what we will do.  

A.G. LAFLEY: Joe, Why do you consider us big?  

JOE ALTOBELLO: Well --.  

UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER: I was just going to say, right now, we are very much focused on organic growth. You know, we looked at -- I think this is our sixth quarter in a row with organic sales or net sales growth at 6 percent or higher. It's our eighth quarter in a row with volume growth at 5 percent higher, ex acquisition and divestiture. We were looking at over 20 years and we did nine in a row, nine quarters in a row in sort of the 93 to 95 period when Central and Eastern Europe was first opening up, when China was opening up.  

So we are very much focused, very much focused on driving the businesses that we have. There's a lot of growth opportunity in those businesses, and we've got to get the job done on Wella. We've got a lot to do on Wella and we've got a great team working on Wella right now. Hopefully, we will be making an impact on the Wella business by the summer of this year -- a very positive impact.  

CLAY DALEY: As we've also said before, our long-term growth objectives are not dependent on big acquisitions.  

OPERATOR: John Voucher (ph) with J.P. Morgan.  

JOHN VOUCHER, ANALYST, J.P. MORGAN: Yes, good morning, everyone. A quick question about dollar stores -- you have highlighted some opportunities internationally in terms of going after lower income consumers and you have sort of talked a little bit about it in the US. Can you talk about, in the face of declining dollar store comps, any programs you have in place? Do you think that this is an opportunity for you to, going forward, out-execute versus your competitors there, given your supply-chain flexibility and your manufacturing flexibility in terms of maybe providing some differentiated packages in this channel? Any thoughts, going forward, on dollars?  

A.G. LAFLEY: We are actually in a very strong distribution and I think we are the number one supplier on a fairly wide margin of the two major dollar chains in the U.S., Family Dollar and Dollar General. We do customize products and packaging for that channel, just as we do for other retailers in other channels -- (Multiple Speakers) -- drug or mass merchandisers (indiscernible).  

I think, despite an improving economy, broadly speaking, over the years, the discounters, regardless of format, are still the faster growing retailers. So we obviously have to be very attuned to the discounters, whether they are big club stores, whether they are various mass merchandiser formats, whether they are discount drugstores or whether they are dollars. So Dollar is important to us. They meet the needs of rural and small town consumers and they meet the needs of families and women who have very limited amounts of cash to spend every weekend and shop on a weekly basis. So we've got to be there; we need to serve all of these consumers.  

JOHN VOUCHER: Given the profile of the Dollar consumer, do you see an opportunity for actually positive mix coming out of that channel in terms of the Dollar consumer seems willing to spend more per ounce relative. Can that maybe counteract some of the mix -- (multiple speakers) -- elsewhere?  

A.G. LAFLEY: It is a positive mix for us.  

CLAY DALEY: You are absolutely right. They tend to buy smaller sizes and those smaller sizes do tend to be premium priced per ounce or use.  

A.G. LAFLEY: (indiscernible) it's a limited distribution channel. Obviously, it's sort of like a club store; you are either in distribution or you're not. They don't carry the whole range of brands; they tend to carry the leading brand. Since we have the leading brand in -- whatever -- 30-plus categories in the U.S., that obviously puts us in a good position. We like limited distribution retailers.  

JOHN VOUCHER: Now, we have seen some slowdown in comp growth at Dollar stores. Is that something you're seeing?  

A.G. LAFLEY: I think one of the things that's going on is the economy has strengthened and there's a little more money in consumers' pockets. Inflation has stayed low, so that consumer -- you know, no consumer shops only one retail store; I think consumers shop a set of retail stores across a group of channels. So I think what you're seeing is -- I would have to get into the actual research data, but I would hypothesize that her mix of shopping is just moved a little bit out of the Dollar stores. She feels a little bit more flush and has a little bit more money in her pocket.  

The thing I feel good about is we're growing our shares at all but one of our top 13, 14, 15 retailers in the U.S., and we are growing our shares, cumulatively, in the last three months. I'm sorry, we're growing our volume 7 percent in our top 12 customers worldwide. So we have to serve consumers wherever they shop and we have to represent a better value and a preferred brand wherever they shop, and the Dollar stores are a part of that.  

OPERATOR: Lauren Lieberman with Credit Suisse First Boston.  

LAUREN LIEBERMAN, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE FIRST BOSTON: Good morning. First, I was looking for an update on the U.S. hair color business. I think I picked that up there were some management changes or shifts in that area and I was hoping you could elaborate on products, the business, the management changes and any initiatives you've got coming up?  

A.G. LAFLEY: Where I'm headed tomorrow! Trends -- we're going to do a quarterly review in Stanford. Our hair coloring share trends have stabilized. Our value share I think is about 36 percent -- where we've brought innovation to market on Nice 'd Easy and Herbal Essences. We've been growing our share. The other brands are still soft. We've got a lot of innovation scheduled for 2004, so hopefully, we will get more of the line growing.  

I guess I would say, beyond that, we are trying to focus on the basics. We're trying to understand the segments of consumers, where they shop, how they shop. We're trying to improve the shopping experience; it's not a great shopping experience.  

We're also focused on the at-home coloring experience and we're trying to improve that. But we still think it's a good market,. We think there is an opportunity to get the market growing a little bit faster.  

You asked about the change in leadership. What we've really done is just have Rob Matteucci, who leads our Clairol operation in Stanford, report to Mark Pritchard, one of our presidents who -- Mark has led our cosmetics business for the past many years; he's done a terrific job in cosmetics. There are obvious parallels between color cosmetics and hair colorants and we're just trying to get up the learning curve a lot faster by connecting our cosmetic learning to our colorant learning.  

The other thing we've done, obviously, is connect our Clairol colorant learning to our Wella colorant learning and that helps us get up the learning curve a little faster.  

I think we've retained -- out of like the 65 top managers or key managers at Clairol, I think we have like 52 or so that are still with us. So we had a couple of people who left early on for location preferences or a job opportunity but most of the team has stayed with us. And that's good because we need their knowledge, we need their experience and then we want to build on it.  

LAUREN LIEBERMAN: How much of the difficulties or challenges you've had with Clairol, with the hair coloring business, is based on marketing and communicating to the consumer that something (inaudible) versus the actual product quality?  

A.G. LAFLEY: No. Our product quality is fine; it's just as good as anybody's. Wella and Clairol products are outstanding and in the consumer acceptance tests, they do just fine. If you examine the shares brand by brand, actually most of the brands have been giving up share in the past year.  

Colour Expert from Loreal was a new item that created some share growth in a new segment and has done pretty well, although it is reasonably small. Then Nice 'n Easy and Herbal Essences has grown, and maybe one other brand. So I think it's all about innovation and creating the better consumer experience. If we can get into our innovation rhythm, which we are starting to, and if we can create a better shopping and a better coloring-at-home experience, I'm pretty confident we will do very well in this business.  

LAUREN LIEBERMAN: I'd like to follow up maybe a little bit more quantitative on Wella. Usually you give -- or last quarter anyway, you gave the Company operating margin change, excluding Wella. Do you have that for this quarter?  

CLAY DALEY: We said it was basically flat.  

LAUREN LIEBERMAN: Okay, so it's flat, ex-Wella?  

CLAY DALEY: Ex-Wella, Right-o.  

LAUREN LIEBERMAN: Okay. The other question (indiscernible) the comment of arms length collaboration. Any implications in terms of R&D or distribution that we should be aware of that you are more limited in terms of what you can do in the coming quarters?  

CLAY DALEY: Actually, what's interesting is there was a pre-existing technology and R&D agreement between Clairol and Wella -- so when we bough Clairol. So the ability for Clairol and Wella to cooperate in and R&D standpoint is based on a deal that preexists both acquisitions.  

Related to your question is, as they say, we are going to be setting up collaboration arrangements with Wella that will be beneficial for both companies, where Wella management will be able to defend, fully, their cooperation with P&G from a legal standpoint in terms of the arms-length nature (inaudible) and it will be good for the business. But as I said in my prepared comments, though, from a strictly cost-synergy standpoint, more than half the synergies are going to fall on P&G's side but still, there will be enough benefit on the Wella side so that they will be able to defend their position as an independent management team.  

OPERATOR: Andrew McQuilling with UBS Warburg.  

ANDREW MCQUILLING, ANALYST, UBS WARBURG: A.G., just a question on the U.S. whitening category -- 70 percent share is terrific. Can you give us update on how the overall market is growing, maybe an update on trial and repeat and maybe a sense for a timing when competition may ease a bit and profitability gets better?  

A.G. LAFLEY: On the last one, profitability is very good and with a 70 share, competition is easy.  

On the market side, you know, the market is still growing. We are very much interested in continuing to find ways to stimulate accelerating growth. You know, we've done a lot of work on occasions. I think you've seen our marketing around proms and weddings and things like that.  

It's an issue of frequency; it's an issue actually of trial and frequency. Our trial is still relatively low. We are hoping we can -- with the premium Whitestrips, which get you more widening faster and are more convenient -- you don't have to stick with them for a thirty-day regimen; you just have to stick with them for a week-long regiment -- that this will be another stimulus to trial. Our repeat has been pretty good, so if we can encourage consumers to try the product, they are pretty happy with the results.  

Night Effects -- we're still in early days, very low trial rate. It's a very different habit; it's a very different experience, and we're going to have to find out if many consumers like that form and like the overnight process.  

Let's see, the market must be somewhere above 400 million, and we would obviously like to, over time -- as we have done with sort of the home cleaning systems market or some of the other markets we've created in the last couple of years -- you know, keep building. It would be wonderful if it could be $1 billion market. We don't know if it can but with relatively low trial rates, it's not out of the question.  

ANDREW MCQUILLING: A.G., are trial still under 10 percent? Then I had a question about where you think the near-term European opportunity is, or any other bright spots internationally.  

A.G. LAFLEY: I think our trial rate is a bit over 10 of Whitestrips. I'm relatively certain Night Effects is still single digits and probably relatively low single digits.  

CLAY DALEY: The total trial of the segment is now in the teens, we believe.  

A.G. LAFLEY: We have launched in Germany. We do think the innovation will travel. The issue, of course, is you have to work the regulatory issues market by market and you have to work the channels and distribution market by market because they are different. We have launched in Germany. When I was there last year, it was off to a very good start. It sold through the pharmacists, and we have a small display. We had a very good coverage of distribution and display and the pick-up was very good by German consumers.  

I don't know off the top of my head, Andrew, what the market share is. I'm not even sure we get shares from the pharmacies but we know, from the volume and we know from the consumer research that we're doing, that we're getting a very positive response.  

But I think the simple way to think about this is we believe it's an innovation that has got legs and that has legs (indiscernible) the first country it was introduced in, and then has legs to go to other countries around the world.  

ANDREW MCQUILLING: Terrific. Maybe one more, if I could? You mentioned that double-digit sales and volume growth in Latin America?  

UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER: Yes.  

ANDREW MCQUILLING: Mexico is your fifth biggest market. How is Mexico doing overall? What are your, I guess, expectations for it through calendar '04?  

A.G. LAFLEY: Mexico is also up double digits volume on a 3, 6, and twelve-month basis, so Mexico has been a very steady contributor for us. We think Mexico has a lot of potential. I won't bore you with all of the details of the opportunities but in some of core businesses, we had relatively smaller positions. One where we've clearly made a big improvement in the last year or so is feminine care and we're working methodically -- the year before, we made a big move in hair care. We are working methodically through our core categories. We are adding in some of our higher growth categories, and we're focusing on high frequency stores. About half of the consumption in Mexico goes through what we call "up the trade", you know, the big grocers and Wal-Mart-type mass merchandisers. But half of the consumption goes through very small -- what we call high frequency stores. We've been in a concerted effort for the last couple of years to improve our distribution there and it's on the increase.  

ANDREW MCQUILLING: A.G., those high frequency stores -- do you have a sense for just what P&G's percentage of Mexican sales move through that, what type of improvement you've seen in the last five years?  

A.G. LAFLEY: I will tell you broadly, total consumption is about half and we've been underdeveloped, so less than half of our business moves through there. It's obviously been an engine for growth for us in the last year when we've generated double-digit growth. We are catching up.  

ANDREW MCQUILLING: Terrific! Thank you.  

OPERATOR: Alec Patterson (ph) with RCF (ph).  

ALEC PATTERSON, ANALYST, RCF (PH): Clay, I've got a question for you. Just following up on the cash flow opportunities for you, you mentioned share repurchase activity (indiscernible) nobody is going to come up to you and say, "Buy my business". From what I can see, shares outstanding haven't really changed much over the past couple of years. I was wondering whether because of acquisitions you've made, you've had to hold off, or you're really just kind of in a want to reduce the debt -- which I don't think it's very much-- mode. What is holding back from the shares outstanding count from really coming down, given your really high free cash flow?  

CLAY DALEY: There are a couple of factors. Obviously, the acquisitions, Clairol and Wella had some impact on our ability to do share repurchase, as we had a strong interest in maintaining our AA credit rating.  

Beyond that, though, in the share count, what you've seen happen over the last couple of years is, as our stock price has gone up, more of our option shares come into the shares outstanding calculation for EPS purposes. So that has tended to offset some of the share repurchase activity we've done.  

But we still, as I say, we still like share repurchase. We've purchased about the same amount of stock in the first half of this fiscal year as we did last fiscal year but obviously, last fiscal year, we were heading into Wella and that had an impact on our share repurchases. So, I think you'll see share repurchase at higher levels in the second half of this fiscal year than you did last fiscal year.  

ANDREW MCQUILLING: So if we were to see the stock price kind of hold at levels here, would you expect the in-the-money options to level out and thus we will see a net reduction in shares outstanding?  

CLAY DALEY: That would tend to happen, yes. If we continue buying shares, which we will, and the stock price were to -- of course, we hope the stock price doesn't actually stay where it is, but -- (LAUGHTER) -- I think you're going to see the share count continue to trend down.  

OPERATOR: With that, we will conclude today's question-and-answer session. Gentlemen, I will turn the call back to you for any additional or closing remarks.  

CLAY DALEY: Thanks very much for joining us today. As I said at the outset, John Goodwin, Juan Pedro, Thomas Tippel (ph) and I will be around to answer any follow-up questions. We have tried to shorten up this call today. Thanks very much for joining us.  

A.G. LAFLEY: Thank you.  

[CCBN reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES CCBN ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. Copyright 2004, CCBN, Inc. All Rights Reserved.]  

[Copyright: Content copyright 2004 CCBN, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Electronic format, layout and metadata, copyright 2004 FDCH e-Media, Inc. (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.) ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user's personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon CCBN's or FDCH e-Media's copyright or other proprietary rights or interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CCBN and FDCH e-Media so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CCBN and FDCH e-Media as the originators and copyright holders of such material. This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation.]  

   CO
prgml : The Procter & Gamble Company
   IN
i25 : Chemicals | i258 : Cosmetics/Toiletries | icnp : Consumer Products
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   AN
Document FNDW000020040211e01s0008k
  


 HD
 Q1  2004  Procter  & Gamble Company Earnings Conference Call - Final  
   WC
12,268 words
   PD
27 October 2003
   SN
FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
(c) Copyright 2003 CCBN and FDCH e-Media.  

   LP
OPERATOR: Good day, everyone and welcome to the Procter & Gamble first quarter earnings release conference call.  

Just areminder, today's call is being recorded.  

   TD
The rebroadcast, reproduction, or retransmission of this conference call, in whole or in part, is strictly prohibited without the prior written consent of the Procter & Gamble Company.  

At this time, for opening remarks and introductions, I would like to turn the all over to the Chief Financial Officer, Mr. Clay Daley. Please go ahead, sir.  

CLAYTON DALEY, CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER, PROCTER AND GAMBLE: Thank you.  

Good morning. And welcome to P&G's quarter end conference call.  

A.G. Lafley, our CEO, and Juan Pedro Hernandez, our Treasurer, join me this morning.  

I'll begin the call today with a summary of our first quarter results, and Juan Pedro will cover our results by operating segment and I will wrap up with our expectations for the December quarter and the fiscal year. A.G. will join the call for the Q&As. And as always, following the call, Juan Pedro, John Goodwin and I will be available to provide additional perspective as needed.  

Now, let me begin by saying that as required by Regulation G, we need to make you aware that during the call, we will make a number of references to non-GAAP measures. Management believes that these measures provide our investors valuable information on the underlying growth trends of our business. The only difference between the reported and core amounts, is the restructuring charges, in the base periods. In order to ensure full understanding, we have posted on our web site,  www.pg.com, a full reconciliation of non-GAAP measures to U.S. GAAP to provide additional clarification.  

Now, on to the results. We began fiscal year 2004 with a strong first quarter. Diluted net earnings per share were $1.26 at the top end of our revised guidance and a penny above the consensus estimate. Diluted EPS was up 21% versus the prior year reported EPS of $1.04 per share which included 8 cents per share restructuring program charges. Excluding the base period restructuring charges, EPS was up 13%. As expected, the acquisition of Wella did not have an impact on the quarterly earnings. This strong earnings performance is on top of an exceptional base period, where core EPS grew 17%.  

First quarter net sales were $12.2 billion, up 13%. Acquisitions and divestitures contributed 3% to sales growth. Foreign exchange also helped by another 3%.  

FX help was due to the strength of the euro, Canadian dollar and British pound which more than offset weakness in the Mexican peso and the Venezuelan bolivar. Excluding the impacts of FX and acquisitions and divestitures organic sales growth was up 7% above our long term target.  

Volume increased 12%. And excluding acquisitions and divestitures, organic volume grew a strong 9%. All business units and regions delivered solid growth. With healthcare and developing markets continuing to set the pace.  

The fast growth of developing markets and mid-tier brands were the primary drivers of the 1% negative mix on the quarter. Developing market volume grew in the high teens, about double the average company growth rate.  

Pricing was down 1% versus year ago, due to action taken last fall on Crest Whitestrips, continued promotional spending in the U.S. tissue market, and minor price adjustments on fabric and home care brands.  

Gross margin increased by 180 basis points to 51.8%, about half of the improvement was driven by skill leverage from higher volume. Another third was driven by ongoing manufacturing and material cost savings projects. The remainder was due to business mix shift toward the faster growth of health and beauty care units, including a modest help from the addition of Wella.  

Marketing research and administrative costs increased 180 basis points. Higher marketing spending to maintain the momentum of the core business and the support and innovation such as Prilosec OTC, Crest Whitestrips and Night Effects, Olay Regenerist, Swiffer, and the addition of Wella, drove higher MR & A levels.  

Note that our current period operating results include the cost for ongoing restructuring. And our comparative base period excludes restructuring program costs. Now this, by itself, will temper margin expansion this year by 40 to 60 basis points.  

Operating income was up 13% to $2.6 billion dollars. Operating margin improved 10 basis points versus last year's core results. Excluding the impact of Wella, base business operating margins improved ahead of our original guidance for the quarter. Our effective tax rate was 30.7%. A reduction of 40 basis points compared to the core effective tax rate from the same quarter last year.  

On cash flow, note that the acquisition impact for Wella shows up in the investing section of the cash flow statement. The operating cash impacts from our one-month ownership of Wella were not material. Operating cash flow totaled $1.6 billion, a decrease of about $400 million versus last year.  

The difference was driven by working capital expansion and a one-time operating item in the base period. The one-time operating item was a nonrecurring dividend received from joint ventures, which was disclosed last year.  

Overall, working capital needs are increasing, as the business grows at an accelerated rate. Recall, P&G is best in class in receivables. Receivable days were 26, excluding Wella, down from 27 days a year ago and equal to 26 days at fiscal year-end. The Prilosec introductory shipment timing of September 15 impacted the absolute dollar increase in receivables.  

On inventory, P&G is among the best in the consumer products group with days on hand of typically 60 to 63 days over the last six quarters. Inventory days were at 62 at the end of September, up two days versus year ago and previous quarter, but still in control. The inventory billed behind a number of initiatives was the main driver for the overall increase.  

Inventories will go up about 10 days when we fully include Wella. Given the length of the salon and fragrance business pipeline, but we have efforts under way to reduce inventories systemically, both in health and beauty care, and through our major customers.  

Accounts payable were down three days, sequentially, due to the reversal of one-time items highlighted last quarter, and ongoing efforts to maximize best practice and cash -- best price, excuse me, and cash discounts.  

Stepping back, there will be working capital expansion as the business grows, and an increase as we include Wella. But we intend to sustain our best in class receivables advantage and to continue to work for systemic reductions in inventory levels.  

Free cash flow for the quarter was $1.2 billion. This was a decrease of approximately $500 million dollars versus the September quarter last year. Capital spending was $364 million, or 3% of sales, full point below our long-term target level of 4% of sales.  

Free cash flow productivity was 70% for the quarter. Below our free tax flow productivity in the first quarter was plainly due to the operating cash flow items that I already discussed.  

Now, we should see better performance over the balance of the year. And we still expect free cash flow productivity for the full fiscal year to be above our long-term target of 90%.  

However, it is not realistic to expect we will deliver a third year in a row of 140% cash flow efficiency. And I want to stress that our long-term free cash flow productivity target is to be above 90% of earnings, and we are simply moving back toward the long term sustainable trend.  

Now with that, I will turn it over to Juan Pedro for a discussion of the business results by segment.  

JUAN PEDRO HERNANDEZ, VICE PRESIDENT & TREASURER, PROCTER AND GAMBLE: Thank you, Clayt.  

The (inaudible) home care business core unit delivered strong results for the quarter. Volume and sales both grew 8%. Sales were $3.4 billion dollars. Strong top line was driven primarily by a tied, Swiffer and Dawn brands, supported by the recent initiatives such as Dawn Power Dissolver, Dawn Complete, Swiffer Duster and (inaudible).  

Sales growth includes a 3% benefit from foreign exchange, which was offset by mix and pricing. Mix hurts came from the continued rapid growth in developing markets and from mid-tier brands.  

Lower pricing reflects adjustments from the Swiffer Wet Jet, and on selected fabric care brands in markets in North America and in western Europe.  

Earnings increased 3% to $562 million dollars. Earnings growth lacked sales growth, due to higher marketing and spending to support product initiatives, brand expansions into new geographies, and continued base business growth. Earnings improvement trends for this year are back-end loaded, given the difficult first half comparisons.  

Earnings growth was 22% and 18% in the first two quarters of last fiscal year. The fabric care business delivered volume growth in the high single digits behind the Tide brand which grew global volume double digits, led by developing markets.  

Also, mid-tier laundry brands have continued to grow rapidly. In the U.S., Gain all out value share is approaching 10%. In Japan, (inaudible) 10% volume share. In China, we are broadening the appeal of the Tide brand with premium products like Tide Triple Action, and basic products like Tide Clean White. China laundry volume for the quarter more than doubled versus prior year levels. Even with this rapid growth, there is still a lot (inaudible) for future category and share growth.  

Home care delivered another excellent quarter with global volume growth in the double digits. Swiffer continues to grow share in the U.S. cleaning systems. With the past three months U.S. (inaudible) the volume share of 63%.  

Tissues up more than 16 percentage points versus year ago. U.S. the past three months for outlet value share improved by 1.5 percentage points to 38.5%, behind the power resolver and complete initiatives.  

Beauty care volume increased 21% behind the Wella acquisition and solid organic growth in the skin, hair and feminine care segments.  

Excluding acquisition and divestiture impact, volume increased 8%. Sales increased 20% to $3.8 million dollars with the foreign exchange helping by 3 percentage points. The (inaudible) mix of 3% was driven by the addition of Wella and fast growth in developing markets.  

Excluding acquisition and divestiture impact on FX, organic sales grew 6%. Earnings for the quarter we have $616 million, up 12% versus year ago. Solid organic volume growth and gross margin improvements more than offset increased marketing investments to support new initiatives on the front against strong competitive activity in hair care and the skin care.  

Global Olay skin care grew volume more than 20% behind the continued success of Olay Regenerist. Olay all outlet value share of U.S. facial moisturizers is now at 35.3%, up almost 7 percentage points versus last year. Regenerist was expanded to the U.K. and China during the quarter and helped Olay skin care grow volume by over 20% in those geographies.  

Feminine care volume grew high single digits, with double digit growth in northeast Asia, China, Russia, and Mexico. In the U.S., feminine care volume share is up 3.2 percentage points to 41.2%. (Inaudible) share is up 3 percentage points to 43.8 and Tampax Tampon share is up 4.7 percentage points, to 45.5%.  

Prestige Fragrances grew volume double digits behind the la Cost and Hugo Boss brands. The recent launch of Boss (inaudible) is going very well and we continue to leverage the La Cost (inaudible) initiatives.  

Global hair care also delivered strong results with organic volume growth of 9%. Pantene grew high single digits and Head & Shoulders, (inaudible) and Pert grew double digits. Herbal Essence's volume grew low single digits driven by international market growth of over 25%. Strong international results more than offset a soft period in the U.S. where Herbal Essence faces heavy competitive spending behind new product introductions.  

U.S. hair care (inaudible) volume share for the quarter was flat. However, value share was down 1.4 percentage points to % 54.4% as brand (inaudible) drove down volume share competitive to volume.  

Pantene hair care grew all out value share in the U.S. by 1.3 percentage points to 15.3%.  

U.S. women's hair colorant value share has been stabilized at about 36.5%, for the past three and six month periods. We are encouraged by the performance of Nice 'n Easy and Herbal Essence's Highlighting Those are the products we see now innovation and marketing plans in the spring of 2003.  

Turning now to baby and family care, this business unit delivered another very good quarter. Volume grew 6% and sales increased 7% to $2.6 billion dollars. Foreign exchange help of 3% was partially offset by pricing and mix of minus one percentage.  

Earnings of $295 million, we are up 22% behind the strong volume growth and product and manufacturing cost savings, which more than offset the (inaudible) and natural cost increases, and higher marketing investments.  

Pampers continues to deliver very strong volume share and growth. Global baby care volume grew high single digits. In western Europe, the past three months diaper volume share was 52.1%, up 3 1/2 percentage points versus a year ago.  

Share growth was the strongest in the U.K., France, and Germany, mainly behind investment to continue driving baby stages of development. In the U.S., Pampers past three months P&G estimated all outlet value share was up 1.4 percentage points to 26.9%, driven by continued growth of premium tier initiatives. In Japan, baby care continues to see strong growth with the past three months total baby care share up 4.6 percentage points to 19.6%.  

The American baby care had also a very strong quarter, with shipments growing more than 30% versus a year ago. This growth is driven by developing the product line over the next nine months to better address the needs of consumers with lower purchasing power.  

Family care continued to grow volume. Product innovations launched in the first half of 2003, Charmin Sense, Charmin Ultra (inaudible) absorbency and the appearance are great, all are delivering on expectations. These innovations have enabled us to maintain U.S. share and reduce the need to follow competitive promotion activity.  

Health care delivered another excellent quarter of volume, sales and earnings growth. Volume grew 23% behind the launch of Prilosec OTC and continued strong growth in pharmaceuticals and (inaudible) care.  

Additionally the pet health and nutrition segment posted volume growth in the high single digits. Sales were at $1.7 billion, also up 23%. FX helped sales 3% but was offset by negative pricing and mix impacts on the Crest Whitestrips price reduction last November and rapid oral care growth in developing markets.  

Excluding the impact of the Prilosec OTC launch, health care volume and sales could have both still grown at double digit rates. While the total health care unit expect to deliver double digit top line growth for the fiscal year, we also expect it to return to consumption levels, following the one-time pipeline impact from the Prilosec OTC launch.  

Earnings for the quarter were $276 million, an increase of 41%, driven by a strong volume growth and gross margin expansion.  

The Prilosec OTC launch was the obvious highlight of the quarter. The early results have been outstanding. We continue to expect retail sales for Prilosec OTC to end at $200 to $400 million range for the first year in market.  

Pharmaceuticals delivered another quarter of strong growth, driven by Actonel. Pharma volume increased 25% for the quarter. Actonel share of global (inaudible) for the treatment of osteoporosis rose to 25%.  

Oral care volume grew over 20% for the quarter. Tooth whitening systems grew 50% behind the launch of Crest Night Effects and the continued growth of Crest Whitestrips. Crest whitening systems U.S. volume share is nearly 64%.  

Crest (inaudible) also grew rapidly in developing marks led by China, Russia, Poland and Mexico, all posting volume growth over 20%.  

Finally, snack and beverages posted solid top line growth and a strong earnings progress. Volume increased 3% and sales were $896 million, up 9%.  

FX helped sales by 3%, mix added 2%, and pricing added 1%. Pricing reflects partial pass through of higher coffee bean prices. Earnings were $109 million, an increase of 20% behind the strong sales growth and gross margin expansion.  

The Pringles brand grew volume 9% with double digit growth in the U.S. and in Western Europe. This strong U.S. results have been aided by the recovery of the business following the tornado last May and the accelerated growth of the canister chip category.  

Full year results were also solid. U.S. outlet value share grew by 1 percentage point to 31.2% behind the aroma seal canister initiative and volume grew mid-single digits.  

Unfortunately, we expect our competitors to continue and even intensify aggressive pricing and promotional spending in the December quarter. We are uncertain when this additional spending will abate. But we will continue to keep Folgers price competitive on the shelf.  

And that concludes the business units review and now I will turn the call back to Clayt.  

CLAYTON DALEY: Thanks, Juan Pedro.  

Before closing with guidance, I want to provide a brief update on the progress of the Wella acquisition.  

As you know, we closed on the tender offer and the share purchase agreement in early September. The business collaboration process is under way but is still in the early stages.  

Based on early reviews we are very encouraged by the strength of the Wella business and especially by the depth and skill of knowledge of the Wella organization. We continue to expect that the acquisition will be non-dilutive to P&G's fiscal 2004 EPS results.  

Now, Wella will be releasing their third quarter results in the next few weeks. Those results will be prepared under IAS, or International Accounting Standards. As you may know, many of the rules differ between IAS and U.S. GAAP. For example, classification of expenses between marketing research and admin versus net sales and the timing of expense recognition.  

We have adjusted the Wella results to U.S. GAAP for consolidation in our results. As a result, the information that will be released by Wella will differ from that that was consolidated with P&G's results.  

Now, on to guidance.  

For fiscal 2004, we continue to expect another year of organic sales and earnings growth, at or above long-term company targets. Organic sales growth, which excludes acquisitions, and divestitures and foreign exchange impacts, should increase about 5-7%.  

Including Wella, volume and sales growth will be well above our long-term goals until the acquisition is fully annualized. We expect Wella to add about 6-7% growth to the top line.  

Foreign exchange is now expected to help sales by about 2% for the year, mainly due to the strength of the euro. This will occur primarily in the first half of the fiscal year.  

We now expect pricing and mix to combine for a minus 1% impact on sales. The mix impacts are primarily [ indiscernible ] developing markets particularly China, and we expect to continue to see some impact from targeted pricing adjustments on fabric and home care and continued pressure in the coffee and tissue towel categories.  

We also expect some investment in North American hair care to defend against competitive activity.  

All in, total sales growth for the fiscal year 2004 is now expected to be 13-16%.  

We plan to continue to investment in initiatives and developing market expansion to maintain our top line momentum. Strong top line growth reduces the need for margin expansion to deliver double digit earnings per share growth this fiscal year, which we, frankly, think is a good thing.  

Fiscal year operating margin will likely be lower by 60 to 90 basis points due entirely to the impact of Wella. Excluding Wella, operating margin is expected to improve modestly versus last year, as gross margin improvements will largely be offset by higher MR & A to support our strong initiative pipeline.  

Fiscal year diluted net earnings per share are expected to grow in line with the current consensus expectations. Note that there have been a number of competitive entries in our key category, particularly in U.S. hair care. In addition, recall that we are now absorbing ongoing restructuring charges in our results. But despite these challenges and changes, we are confident that we can deliver our goals.  

For the December quarter, we expect organic sales, excluding FX and acquisitions and divestitures, to grow 5-8%. Wella should add sales of 6-7%. Additionally, FX should help by 3-4% in the quarter. Pricing and mix are expected to be a drag of about 1%, driven largely by the same factors that impacted the September quarter. All in, total sales are expected to grow 14-19%.  

Operating margin is expected to decline 80 to 100 basis points driven by Wella. Organic margins should improve modestly for the quarter. On EPS, we are expecting Wella to be slightly dilutive on the December quarter. However, we are comfortable with the current range of analyst EPS estimates. The Wella impact simply makes the consensus range a bit more challenging.  

That concludes the business comments for the quarter.  

As you know, this discussion has included a number of forward-looking statements. If you will refer to our most recent 8-K and 10-K Reports, you will see a discussion of factors that could cause the company's actual results to differ materially from these projections.  

Now, we have tried to shorten up the call today on the prepared comments. And we're now ready to move into Q&A.  

OPERATOR: Thank you, sir.  

The question-and-answer session will be conducted electronically. If you would like to ask a question, please signal us by pressing star 1 on your telephone key pad.  

We will take as many questions as time permits today and we do ask that you initially limit yourself to one question.  

We will turn first to Amy Chasen of Goldman Sachs.  

UNIDENTIFIED: Good morning.  

AMY CHASEN, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: First question is working capital.  

Can you just, Clayt, talk about that in a little bit more detail? And maybe flesh out your comments a little bit more.  

When you say that you're looking for working capital investments this year, or working capital to increase, is that comment, you know, relative to absolute or as a percent of sales? And can you just talk a little bit more about the drivers there?  

CLAYTON DALEY: Well, I think that we're looking -- the fact as you know is the business is growing quite nicely.  

And while we have certainly efforts going on throughout the company to try to control working capital, at some point, business growth will require some additional working capital to support it. Particularly when the business growth is disproportionately in the health and beauty care parts of the business that tend to be a little bit more working capital intensive.  

Now, what I think we saw in the quarter was, you know, a number of things that have come together, which we think some of which are short term and some of which are base period related.  

I think as we said in the comments we still feel pretty good about the receivables position at 26 days, despite the fact, as you know, when we started shipping Prilo, mid-September, we obviously didn't collect one bill for Prilo, for all practical purposes during the quarter so virtually all the Prilo shipments were in receivable at the end of the quarter.  

In the inventory area, this was one where as I say, we think we're in control over long periods of time in this 60 to 63-day range. We ended up at 62.  

But I will tell you, you know, that we are continuing to hammer away on inventories, and we would expect some of that inventory increase to come back throughout the balance of the year. And I do want to emphasize that the heavy initiative activity that we've had in order to build the top line has resulted in some need for inventory pipeline inside our system to make sure you can support those initiatives with good customer service because that's, of course, the flip side of inventory. We don't want to on new initiatives be in a situation where we're short shipping customers.  

And in the payables area, as we said, we had a one timer in the base period which we did disclose, you know, we're not kind of trying to reinvent history here, but as I say, we believe that the inventory results in the first quarter are likely to improve somewhat throughout the balance of the year.  

ALAN LAFLEY, CHAIRMAN, PRESIDENT, CEO, PROCTER AND GAMBLE: Amy, this is A.G.  

If I could just add two comments.  

One, our goal is to be best in class in accounts receivable and in inventory. In our industry, we are best in class in accounts receivable now. We are in the top group in inventory and we mix more of our business with the health and beauty care so that means we are going to have to work harder to become best in class, which is our goal.  

Two, we are working a number of efforts in health and beauty care and with major customers, we have a major customers [ Indiscernible ] consumer-driven supply network. We are working with a number of leading customers, in different channels, and one of the goals is to take inventory out of the system.  

And I guess the third thing I would say is so best in class on receivables, best in class on inventories is the goal. On payable, it is pretty simple. We are trying to hit the sweet spot where we maximize our pricing and our cash discounts and we're getting a lot closer to that.  

AMY CHASEN: Great.  

If I could just ask one more question about Wella.  

UNIDENTIFIED: Sure.  

AMY CHASEN: Which is in the press release, and I think your comments, you referred to some post acquisition cost, and I was wondering if you could quantify those and tell us how long those are expected to last? And also, whether you -- and also whether specifically you expect them in the second, third and fourth quarters and how much?  

CLAYTON DALEY: Yeah, there are going to be some acquisition costs for Wella that will occur throughout the year. That are, you know, as I think you know, the accounting basically says that if the acquisition costs occur inside the Wella organization, they became part of goodwill. If they occur inside the P&G organization, they have to be expensed currently. And there was some of those costs in the first quarter, and basically, they are going to be the highest though over the next two quarters.  

Now, I don't know what, in terms of magnitude, we're not -- we're not going to, I'm sorry, provide guidance in that area. It is not a huge amount.  

But, I should also say, though, as you look at our guidance, you're seeing our guidance on margin expansion be, you know, somewhat modest and therefore, that those transition costs are clearly impacting that.  

AMY CHASEN: Okay. Great.  

Thank you.  

OPERATOR: We will take our next question from Wendy Nicholson with Salomon Smith Barney.  

WENDY NICHOLSON, ANALYST, SALOMON SMITH BARNEY: Hi, good morning.  

Two things.  

First of all, the restructuring costs that you talked about, 40 to 60 basis points impact on the operating margin, can you clarify which businesses that will impact most severely?  

CLAYTON DALEY: Well, the restructuring costs from a segment standpoint are in corporate. Okay? Most of them are. All right?  

WENDY NICHOLSON: Okay.  

CLAYTON DALEY: So -- but basically, as I think we said earlier, you know, we have an ongoing plan to have $150 to $200 million after tax in restructuring inside the company that will be absorbed as part of our base results.  

Now, what our business units can do is they can come to A.G. and I and request projects be funded, and if we fund those projects, they are funded out of our corporate budget, which is in the -- which is in the corporate segment.  

WENDY NICHOLSON: Fine.  

So none of the individual operating margins where the businesses would be --  

CLAYTON DALEY: That's correct.  

WENDY NICHOLSON: Okay.  

The second question I had is with regard to your guidance for price and mix to be down, only 1% for the full year, I guess two things about that, I mean number one, that is less of a drag, if you will, than we've seen in recent years, and I guess my question is, what gives you confidence that a less aggressive stance towards pricing and promotion won't negatively impact your volumes?  

And number two, if I do the math and I look at the guidance for the first half, does that mean we will be looking at positive pricing and mix for the second half? Because, again, that sounds like maybe not too aggressive but optimistic.  

ALAN LAFLEY: Okay. Wendy, second question first.  

No, there will still be a drag in the second half.  

CLAYTON DALEY: Much smaller.  

ALAN LAFLEY: But a smaller drag.  

The biggest phenomenon that is going on here is base period. We're lapping some of the first moves we made, well the stronger moves in the developing markets, which obviously impact our mix, primarily in the fabric care categories, you know in the big core category, fabric care, hair care, fem care, and baby care, and we began those efforts more than a year ago. And then the second is the efforts to move more strongly into the mid-priced segment, in developed markets. And again, that has sort of been going on for a year, different start points for different businesses, but obviously, in North America, a lot of the effort is, you know, getting close to a year old.  

So that's really what's going on. So that will dampen -- the part that's difficult to predict, frankly, the most difficult to predict piece here is, you know, what will be needed in targeted pricing segments.  

And as we pointed out in the comments, you know, in the last year, it is primarily been a U.S. tissue towel and U.S. coffee phenomenon and we're hoping again, you know, in coffee that has lapped and in tissue towel that has lapped and we are hoping that will abate somewhat overtime.  

CLAYTON DALEY: Things like the White Strips price reduction annualized, and there are things that annualized, Swiffer Wet Jet, that suggested the second half should be a little bit less than the first half.  

WENDY NICHOLSON: So with all that being said, though, I guess I'm a little surprised that your outlook for the full year operating margin. I mean if you're going to be doing less aggressive pricing, in theory, that will be higher margin business. I guess I'm surprised your full year operating margin isn't forecast to be up year-over-year.  

CLAYTON DALEY: The mix impact is not a major factor on margin.  

WENDY NICHOLSON: Okay.  

CLAYTON DALEY: So really, the real question is whether it's more pricing or more mix.  

But I think what we've said is that, you know, we've got a full slate of initiatives. And we are funding those. And we're funding them, of course, in terms of our ability to fund them within our operating profit objectives, we're also obviously not denying our businesses any capital that's required to fund those initiatives. I think that's really the bigger factor.  

WENDY NICHOLSON: Okay.  

And then just, the last point on the operating margin. The guidance of being down 60 to 90 points, that was off of the pro forma number or off of the GAAP number?  

CLAYTON DALEY: That is core.  

WENDY NICHOLSON: So the 19.8 would be the -- the full year number?  

CLAYTON DALEY: Yeah. Right.  

WENDY NICHOLSON: Excellent.  

Thank you.  

CLAYTON DALEY: Yup.  

OPERATOR: We'll turn now to Andrew Shore with Deutsche Bank.  

ANDREW SHORE, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Good morning.  

UNIDENTIFIED: Hi, Andrew.  

ANDREW SHORE: Just a -- two very simple questions. The first is with regard to buyer (inaudible), the cheaper (inaudible) change any of your expectations?  

ALAN LAFLEY: Well, Andrew, you know, we can't -- I can't comment on what transpired this last week. I mean you really need to -- you really need to talk to the coalition to understand their goals and their strategies.  

But you know, I think the bigger picture, I mean if you want to step back and think about P&G's strategy, I think we've mentioned on a number of occasions that we are interested in the faster-growing personal care, beauty care, and health care industries. I think it has been pretty clear that the majority, but not all, of our acquisition activity has been in these industries.  

We continue to acquire (inaudible) core and other core business, too, and I guess the third thing, I would say, is I hope it is also clear that we are and intend to continue to be disciplined acquirers, we are only going to make an acquisition if it is dead right strategically, if it makes financial sense, near-term, mid-term, and for the long-term.  

ANDREW SHORE: Okay.  

And then just a follow-up, AG, I'm sure your competitors would like to know when you're going run out of money. But, you know, a while ago we used to hear about the next phase of cost savings. The other billion dollars from the supply chain. Can you spend a million dollars -- a million dollars, can you spend a minute talking about that?  

ALAN LAFLEY: Yeah, I think, you know, I think there is probably been too much discussion about pricing and promotion, because I honestly don't think that has been a major or even important minor contributor to our success in the last couple of years.  

If you really step back and think about what's been going on, I would argue we've been pretty choiceful, pretty clear about our strategic choice, and then very choiceful about executing them in a certain priority order. We've been very focused on the consumers we serve. And I think we have much better definition of and understanding of the consumer segments in the different businesses, and we're focused like a laser on winning that, you know, first moment of truth in the store and second moment of truth in home.  

And we're just doing a much better job of putting together a concept, designing a product, and package, you know, executing in the store, and in the home, in a way that delivers better value. I mean if you step back and think about it, you know, we tend to be priced above our relevant competition in most cases, and the worst case we're priced at parity and that is at list price or net price basis.  

We tend to promote less than our competition. Our percent promotion in virtually every business, percent of the business promoted in virtually every business we're in is lower.  

Regarding, you know, where does the cash and where do the funds come, to sustain the initiative program, again, we've tried to be very disciplined. These businesses all have cost savings goals. They all have the aspiration to become best in class in terms of cost structure in their industry. We're not there everywhere, but we're best in class in more categories now than we were in three or four years ago. On the cost side.  

And I guess, you know, to more broadly try to answer your question, we still believe there are costs in the system that can be driven out. And we have efforts going on a by-business basis and we have efforts going on a corporate basis.  

Two of the bigger efforts on a corporate basis are one is in purchasing, and the purchasing effort is we're really getting after not just the raw and packing material components, of our cost of goods sold, which are, you know, round numbers about half, but we're really getting after all the rest of it. You know, the administrative supplies, services, you know, on, on, on and we're finding that virtually everywhere we turn, there are opportunities to make markets to make markets more rationale, to find ways to take a penny out here, a nickel out there.  

The other area I mentioned earlier, that's this whole effort on what we call the consumer-driven supply network. I think it is quite clear, if you talk to our suppliers or you talk to our customers, on the other side, that there are still inefficiencies in this system and we have been plugging away at it for 10 or 15 years that I can remember, ever since the whole ECR effort started and every year, we turn up new ways to take costs out.  

And I think there is a lot of motivation on the part of our supply partners. There is a lot of motivation on the part of our retail partners. And there is certainly a lot of motivation on our part to take those costs out that do not add any value to what the shopper or the consumer in the end buys.  

You know, how long will this last? You know, are we talking about two more years? Three more years? Five more years? It is hard to say. But I haven't -- I've been in business 26 years, this is the 27th year, and every year, we're able to take more costs out.  

I think what has changed at P&G is the culture. We are staying after costs. And we are trying to stay after cash. And everybody's measured on cash, everybody is measured on costs, you can't drive your operating TSR without doing a good job on cash and cost, and you can't be competitive.  

So in the end, if we take the cash out and we keep taking the costs out, we will be able to keep funding the trial efforts and that's essentially what they are. The trial efforts behind our innovation.  

ANDREW SHORE: AG, what are out of stocks of P&G products today versus a couple of years ago?  

ALAN LAFLEY: Well, there are a bit lower but the truth of the matter is, Andrew, they're not where -- anywhere near where we want them to be, because if you have the fastest moving brands, and the fastest moving SKUs, I mean you just have to walk retail stores anywhere in the world on a Saturday afternoon, or a Sunday afternoon, and I get real frustrated. Because, you know, our best-selling brands and best-selling SKUs are often out of stock and a lot of the retailers do not have the labor or systems capability to stay in stock 24 by 7.  

We're working real hard with them, you know, we're trying to get produce-to-demand capable in more of our businesses. We work very hard to, launch items, to make sure that we've got enough inventory. Clayt mentioned this earlier.  

You know, we've been erring on the side of we will take a little bit more inventory on to make sure that we have a smooth retail execution of new item, especially when have you these new items that are difficult to estimate how fast they're going to take off. You know, a Tampax Pearl went faster than we thought it would. Regenerist went faster than we thought it would. Prilosec went, you know, faster than anybody thought it would. So, you know, we have a supply chain system that just isn't perfect.  

We are all hoping that our FID will help. I think it will help but I don't think it is a magic bullet. Because a lot of this relies -- a lot of this system relies on, you know, every day people system, every day simple, but important, systems that make sure that the physical goods are where they are supposed to be and the supply chain at any given moment.  

And I guess the last thing I would say is the velocity of some of these categories at some of these retailers you know, has just continued to increase. So the challenge is, it is going to get tougher. But you know, again, the direct question is, there is a lot of room to improve the out of stock position at retailers. Not just in the U.S. but around the world.  

ANDREW SHORE: Thank you.  

UNIDENTIFIED: Thanks.  

OPERATOR: Carol Wilke with Merrill Lynch has our next question.  

CAROL WILKE, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: Thank you, good morning.  

CLAYTON DALEY: Hi, Carol.  

CAROL WILKE: Hi.  

You commented in the opening remarks that the developing market volume was up in the high teens.  

CLAYTON DALEY: Yup.  

CAROL WILKE: A.G., I was hoping, or Clayt, or whomever could give us some idea of how much the volume was, in say, North America, western Europe and Japan and you came out of last year with some some pretty strong momentum.  

CLAYTON DALEY: I think from a mathematical standpoint, with the total company volume up 9, and the developing markets, which represent about 15-20% of our business, up about twice that rate, that means the balance is going to be up in the 6 or 7 range.  

ALAN LAFLEY: Yeah, we're doing -- Carol, we're doing, you know, at the top end of our goal or slightly above in the U.S. --  

CLAYTON DALEY: U.S. --  

ALAN LAFLEY: Western Europe, and Japan, actually Japan has been, I think as I mentioned before, Japan has been phenomenal. Japan has been running consistently at double digits on you know, the past three, six, nine, 12-month basis.  

So the good news, you know, knock on wood, is that -- and we're early in the year; that our volume is coming in pretty strongly across all of the major countries and all of the major regions. And so we don't have a phenomenon like we've had in, you know, probably the previous five or six years where we were weak in Latin America last year or with weak some place else because of the economic situation.  

So right now, it looks pretty good.  

CLAYTON DALEY: Good balance.  

CAROL WILKE: And one other question.  

I -- in the family care discussion I think you guys commented that you're maintaining share but you're not following all the competitive spending. Can you just talk about that a little bit more?  

How you're managing to maintain your share when it seems like there has been some pretty aggressive -- in some of those categories?  

ALAN LAFLEY: Let me make two or three real quick comments here.  

One, we've tried to bring a fair amount of innovation to bath tissue and the kitchen towel business. I think you've seen our Charmin Sense products which has created a new segment. That's, you know, off to a good start. We have a new Charmin aloe version that is also off to a reasonably good start.  

We've introduced a major upgrade on Bounty, where we still enjoy, you know, consumer acceptance advantages versus all-comers, you know, that is just a very strong product that continues to perform well, and in the early days on the new upgrade are going well.  

So a big part of the answer is, we are innovating, we are bringing initiatives, and we are investing in the advertising trial behind those initiatives.  

The second thing I would say is that, you know, some of the harder to understand pricing activity is really just coming from the competitor who is struggling the most. From one competitor who is struggling the most. And that otherwise, I think there is, you know, reasonably good consumer-driven discipline in the category.  

And I guess the final thing I would say is, you know, this is a category that a lot of retailers use to drive traffic.  

CLAYTON DALEY: Yes.  

ALAN LAFLEY: And that means that it gets featured virtually every -- featured and displayed virtually every week. I don't see that phenomenon changing in the U.S. market.  

So I think, you know, there will be a certain amount of feature and display pricing activity. But that's sort of the way this category has always been. If you look back 10 year, 15 years or 20 years, and that is not bad, as long as it is well managed.  

CAROL WILKE: Thank you very much.  

CLAYTON DALEY: Okay.  

OPERATOR: We will take our next question from Dale Pekrillo from Morgan Stanley.  

DALE PEDRIELLO, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Good morning, everyone.  

My question is on the beauty business. Can you talk more about the competitive environment in hair care in both the U.S. and Europe?  

You talked about some activity you're planning. What are the key actions are you going to be taking to stabilize the hair care market shares are these price adjustments or new product activity?  

ALAN LAFLEY: Okay.  

Dale, I think I'm going to start global because of all of our businesses, hair care may be our most global business.  

We are very big. Even bigger outside the U.S. than we are inside the U.S. And we're very well developed even in places like central and Eastern Europe, the Middle East, and very well developed in China, where we run a mid-30 market share and very well developed in Latin America.  

Ex-U.S., including Western Europe and Japan, we are growing, you know, very smartly, and very broadly, and I'm very pleased with the business. And most of the growth is driven by either initiatives on existing brands, or the introduction of -- or restaging of new brands.  

So for example, on the new brand side, we're expanding Herbal Essences, just as we said we would, a year ago, and frankly, so far, every market that we've taken Herbal Essences into has done really well outside the U.S. So I would say that that brand, that product, that model is at least so far looking like it is more expandable than we hoped.  

We are also introducing mid-tier hair care brands into a number of markets. I can take you through a lot of examples but they would be meaningless. They would be just a series of names. But Sham Two is a good example in central and Eastern Europe.  

Turning to the U.S., we have had the most active and competitive new brand year that I can remember. We probably have to go back 10 or 20 or more years with the introduction of Dove and (inaudible) and with the acquisition and reinvestment in the John Frieda line.  

On the one hand, I feel pretty okay after nine months because as we reported in the comments we basically have held our unit volume share, and sort of the low to mid-30s. I also feel great because Pantene, which is our leading brand, you know, has continued to grow through all of this activity, and if you look at the Dove and Foot Disk positioning, you know, a lot of the claims were clearly directed at the market leader Pantene and that is not unusual.  

Having said that, we have lost a little bit of dollar share, and it has come, as we said in the comments, on the brands that are the most, you know, most similar. Foot (inaudible) and Herbal Essences obviously have some common characteristics and for consumers there is a fair amount of switching that has gone on in the U.S.  

Now, to your question about, you know, our goals going forward, I mean our goals are still pretty -- pretty aggressive for hair care. We still think there is a lot of growth, upside. And we think it comes across shampoo, conditioners, styling, and colorants.  

And without going into all the details, we are still filling out our shampoo and conditioner portfolios. The U.S. has the fullest portfolio, but we will be filling that out in the rest of the world starting with Western Europe, and our other big markets.  

The second thing is initiatives, we're bringing -- we will continue to bring a lot of product innovation. It is literally out there every quarter, every semester, on one or the other of the brands. We still think we have product advantage in certain key areas. And then the third thing, and this is really important, is we've got to get up the learning curve in the styling business. Wella brings us a nice array of styling assets. And that is, frankly, the weakest part of our portfolio right now.  

And then the last thing we are going to do is we are going to put together the two retail colorants business. The Wella colorants business and the Clairol colorants business. And we are pretty excited about that, because Wella, you know; very good at the colorants business, they have some good ideas, some good initiatives, and some good technology that will marry up with our technology.  

So net, this is a strong world business for us. It is growing smartly right now. We will get it growing again, as Dove and (inaudible) lap their introductory dates, which will be early next year and as we get more of our initiatives out.  

DALE PEDRIELLO: Great.  

And on the professional business in Europe, do you see losing any momentum while it is being integrated in? Or given the competitive activity, or you will be able to avoid that given the processes that you have to --  

ALAN LAFLEY: Well, I think it is clear that we lost some momentum during the, you know, during the whole process of the tender offer, okay?  

Having said that, I think we've collaborated pretty quickly. I'm very pleased that Hiner Gertler has decided to stay on virtually -- you know, most of the key players in the management team are still with us, we've retained the key management, especially in the professional and salon area, and that business is healthy. It was fundamentally healthier and stronger than the Clairol business we acquired so we just have to maintain the momentum there.  

CLAYTON DALEY: Much better pipeline with Wella than we got with Clairol.  

DALE PEDRIELLO: Thank you.  

ALAN LAFLEY: Thank you.  

OPERATOR: (Inaudible) with Prudential Securities. Please go ahead.  

CONNIE MANEATY, ANALYST, PRUDENTIAL SECURITIES: A.G., many quarters ago, you had suggested that P&G was more likely to start supporting new product for a period of three years to encourage trial where you thought it made sense.  

ALAN LAFLEY: Yes.  

CONNIE MANEATY: Can you comment on which products you've identified to receive that treatment? And how far along they are?  

ALAN LAFLEY: Yeah, it is a program we call launch and leverage. Our industry, I think, had perhaps a bad habit of launch and leave.  

In the past, most introductory plans in the consumer package goods industry were, you know, six or 12 month introductory plans.  

I think there are -- it is real simple, Connie. As long as I would can keep driving the trial curve on the primary targets and that trial results in purchase and repurchase, we're going to keep investing. So there is nothing magic about three years.  

You know, we have some businesses, the Hugo Boss business, we've been investing in for five or six years, and we keep growing that franchise. And part of it is, you know, new fragrance, part of it is the line extensions, but part of it is, we're still generating trial among that Gen-x target audience. But clearly Pampers, baby stage of developments, clearly the whole Swiffer line, clearly the whole Crest Whitening line from the beginning of whitening (inaudible) through the Whitestrips through the Night Effects, through the Whitening Spin Brushes, clearly Pantene.  

I think one of the reasons why we've been so successful on Pantene in the past several years is we just decided back in 1998, '99 that this was a brand that, you know, we looked at the trial rates and we said my gosh, there are a lot of women in the U.S. and in the world that have never even tried Pantene.  

So we were sort of looking at it as an established brand and if you looked at the trial numbers you would say this is a new brand for the majority of women in the world and we just started thinking about it differently.  

And I think Olay is another great example. I mean we redid our so-called white line, you know, our complete regimen, then we came back and did daily facials, and then we came back and did the total -- built out the total effects line and now we are building out the Regenerist line but we're still coming back and introducing pillows on daily facials and on and on.  

And Iams, you know, I could go on here.  

But I would say that on the big leading brands, we expect them to have initiatives that are strong enough so they are not going to tap out from a trial build standpoint in a year.  

And then on the medium and smaller brands, we are very disciplined. You know, as long as they can keep building their trial rates, and delivering a good return, you know, we will stay with them.  

CONNIE MANEATY: Great.  

If I could ask one other question on Prilosec, the early Nielsen data suggests that the -- that $200 million isn't realistic. It is just kind of too low. Can you tell us what you -- from launch to date?  

ALAN LAFLEY: You know, we are all smiling here because there has been a lot of discussion about Prilosec potential over the last week, as you might imagine. We are not going to know until we get enough initial trials with enough heartburn sufferers and more importantly, Connie, until we get enough repurchase.  

CLAYTON DALEY: Right.  

ALAN LAFLEY: And if you look at, you know, the recommended regimen, we are going to need at least six months. I am hopeful like you are, that it is going to be well above what we, you know, what we have initially estimated.  

CLAYTON DALEY: But we don't want -- to declare victory prematurely here.  

ALAN LAFLEY: Well, also, until you have the consumer data, you just don't know. I'm not surprised we are getting a lot of trials but it is going to depend on a lot of factors.  

CONNIE MANEATY: Okay.  

Many thanks.  

ALAN LAFLEY: Thank you.  

OPERATOR: We will now to CIBC's Joseph Altabella.  

JOSEPH ALTOBELLO, ANALYST, CIBC: Thanks. Good morning, guys.  

CLAYTON DALEY: Hi, Joe.  

JOSEPH ALTOBELLO: Just a quick question.  

In the past you guys have talked about your strategy being to moderate prices during the economic downturn. Obviously this has been seen on the pricing line. We're starting to see some signs of economic recovery and pretty robust GDP growth forecast for next year.  

If this continues would that change your strategy in terms of pricing?  

ALAN LAFLEY: Well, I think, Joe, three quick things.  

One is, you know, our overall pricing strategy which is different by industry and category, is to price at a level that represents a superior consumer value. So pricing is only a part of the value equation that we offer consumers.  

Second thing is, where we've led innovation, and where the innovations are meaningful. You know, big changes in the performance level. Big improvements in habits and practices. I think we've been -- we've leaned forward on our pricing. You know, we learn leaned forward clearly on our whitening pricing and oral care, and our spin brush pricing, and on our Regenerist and Total Effects pricing, you know, and some cases we leaned forward too far.  

Swiffer Wet Jet, you know, we went too high, competitors came in well below us, so we will to adjust the price of the starter kit. So I think it is more driven by, you know, how big an innovation is it, and at what price is value created.  

And I guess the third thing, I would say, is I would go back to a comment that I made before, you know, our preferred strategy is to have a brand, a product performance, and an innovation stream that allows us to premium price. And many of our categories, we do in effect premium price.  

JOSEPH ALTOBELLO: So if I could paraphrase you for a second, it sounds like the moaning we're hearing from a lot of competitors is sort of misplaced here then?  

ALAN LAFLEY: I think as I said earlier, I really think it depends on consumer value which is driven by brand trust and brand strength. It is driven by the power of, you know, the performance. Everyday performance of your products.  

And the quality of your products and it is driven by your ability to lead innovation that is meaningful for consumers. I think, unfortunately, when you get behind the innovation curve, or when you have a weaker-performing product, or when your brand doesn't have as strong a reputation and image, then it is too easy to resort to price.  

But price is always -- it is short-term. And you know, the price is gone when the day is over.  

CLAYTON DALEY: What is true, if you look at the gross margin expansion, we have been achieving, and achieved in the current quarter, it would suggest to you that we're, you know, -- our price versus cost relationship is improving.  

JOSEPH ALTOBELLO: Yeah. Okay.  

Just one more quick question if I could. I think before you said that the developing market volume growth was 6-7% this quarter. What was the impact of --  

ALAN LAFLEY: I'm sorry?  

CLAYTON DALEY: Last part of the question again.  

JOSEPH ALTOBELLO: The impact of Prilosec on that developing market's volume growth?  

CLAYTON DALEY: Well, less than a percent. Yeah, less than a percent.  

JOSEPH ALTOBELLO: Great, thanks.  

OPERATOR: And an Gillian with Lehman Brothers. Go ahead.  

ANN GILLIN-LEFEVER, ANALYST, LEHMAN BROTHERS: Thanks. Good morning.  

CLAYTON DALEY: Hey, congratulations.  

ANN GILLIN-LEFEVER: Thank you. Just trying to do my share for the diaper category.  

CLAYTON DALEY: We love it.  

ALAN LAFLEY: Good, we need the business. We always need the business.  

ANN GILLIN-LEFEVER: Just a quick follow-up actually going back to Juan Pedro's comments on the health care segment. What, at this point, do you consider a run rate for that segment, X the shipment of Prilosec given all the activity you've had there?  

UNIDENTIFIED: In terms of --  

CLAYTON DALEY: Well the total volume and sales growth?  

ANN GILLIN-LEFEVER: Yes.  

ALAN LAFLEY: Clearly double digits.  

CLAYTON DALEY: Double digits at least.  

ALAN LAFLEY: Clearly double digits, because we're still -- and we're still benefiting from Actonel, you know, we still have an underdiagnosed, undertreated disease in osteoporosis so we're benefiting from the segment expanding and we're benefiting from building our share. And I think that will continue.  

And I think, you know, as we talked earlier with Connie, you know, it remains to be seen where Prilosec's going to finish. But we will know a lot more about it in six months. Our -- frankly, our sort of every day brant brands in OTC are pretty stable and pretty reasonably healthy right now in Iams is continuing to grow.  

CLAYTON DALEY: Iams is continuing to grow.  

ALAN LAFLEY: Iams is continuing to grow. It is now the number one share brand in North America. Ortho oral care continues to grow. So I think, you know, I think they will do double digits for the foreseeable future on the top and the bottom line.  

CLAYTON DALEY: Although obviously the base is getting bigger.  

ANN GILLIN-LEFEVER: Right.  

CLAYTON DALEY: So you know, obviously we had a huge number last year and you know, I think the percentages will come down a little bit, just as a function of the base period.  

ANN GILLIN-LEFEVER: Okay.  

And is it possible to comment on how much of this is U.S. growth driven and how much you're starting to pick up overseas?  

I know you've been working on expanding overseas this whole category. But --  

ALAN LAFLEY: On -- in which?  

ANN GILLIN-LEFEVER: In health care generally.  

ALAN LAFLEY: Oh, in health care?  

ANN GILLIN-LEFEVER: Yeah.  

ALAN LAFLEY: The majority is still the U.S. because you know, Actonel, we've been able to move into western Europe, which is good. Vic's is a worldwide business. Our oral care business, as we've reported in the comments, has really started to pick up in the Chinas, Russias, Mexicos of the world. Eastern Europe.  

But it is still primarily, I think oral care has global potential. Iams is an interesting business. I mean virtually all the business in the world is in eight or ten countries so that will not be a global -- we still have parts of the world where that's considered -- where the pets are considered food.  

ANN GILLIN-LEFEVER: Okay.  

So is it fair to kind of look at this one from Actonel and oral care going forward then?  

CLAYTON DALEY: Yeah, some personal health care, too, I mean you know still some momentum there from the care and things like that. Yeah.  

ANN GILLIN-LEFEVER: Perfect. Very helpful.  

Thanks.  

OPERATOR: Lauren Lieberman with CS First Boston.  

LAUREN LIEBERMAN, ANALYST, CS FIRST BOSTON: Good morning.  

I had another question actually on health care.  

The 400 basis points of margin expansion was a lot more than I had expected. Just wanted to get some more detail on the drivers of that, if part of it was the Prilosec pipeline fill so it was kind of exaggerated this quarter. ?  

CLAYTON DALEY: The answer is yes.  

ALAN LAFLEY: Yes.  

LAUREN LIEBERMAN: Okay.  

ALAN LAFLEY: Because you ship it in and you don't -- you know, we shipped a lot of product in in the first two weeks to meet the retailers stocking demands and inventory requests. And we don't expense the -- you know, the -- we expense the advertising and the marketing over the next several periods.  

CLAYTON DALEY: As you know in the health care product, obviously we're matching the appropriate marketing expenses with the shipments, but on a contribution margin basis, when you ship that much product in, in a short period of time, it does create a short-term P&L kick. Overhead pickup, basically.  

LAUREN LIEBERMAN: Okay. Great.  

And then on beauty care margin, how much of the margin compression was because of Wella? And how much was because of increased competitive spending in North America?  

CLAYTON DALEY: The -- well, I think we talked about the Wella impact.  

ALAN LAFLEY: It was mostly -- most of it was Wella.  

JUAN PEDRO HERNANDEZ: Including the Wella, the operating margin was down 140 basis points. If we exclude Wella, it would have been up 60 basis points.  

LAUREN LIEBERMAN: Okay. Great.  

Thanks.  

That's it.  

CLAYTON DALEY: Great.  

Thanks.  

OPERATOR: Andrew McQuilling with UBS Warburg. Please go ahead.  

ANDREW MCQUILLING, ANALYST, USB WARBURG: Thanks very much.  

My question was on Wella.  

I guess since the deal was announced in mid-March, can you talk about any surprises, you know, good or bad that you found in your due diligence? And can you outline an action plan, an integration plan for Wella near term?  

ALAN LAFLEY: Andrew, this is A.G.  

We are still, I mean we are in like the fifth or sixth week of working on the collaboration plans, so I would say, you know, by the end of November, by the end of the year, we will be -- we will be ready to go.  

Broadly speaking, Hiner Gertler is going to continue to run the salon business with the same management and the same people that Wella has already run the salon business, okay?  

And we will continue to invest in initiatives in the salon business. He will also continue to run their cosmetics business.  

CLAYTON DALEY: And fragrances.  

ALAN LAFLEY: And fragrances, their fragrance business.  

We will -- we will fold in the retail hair care business, which has hair care, hair styling, and colorants and that's all being worked, and it will fold in, you know, to our global business unit leader, who is in each MDO region. So in other words the person running the hair care business today, the general manager running the hair care business today in Western Europe, you know, will fold that in.  

So it will be collaborate -- we will have a collaborative relationship with Wella, and we will help them market and sell their brands.  

CLAYTON DALEY: That's one of those things where actually Wella had announced before we even got involved that they would be seeking a partner in the retail side. So basically, what we're doing is what they had planed to do anyway, in terms of providing a collaboration partner.  

ALAN LAFLEY: And I guess the last thing I would say, Andrew, is we have a pretty strong care side, shampoo and conditioner. They will bring us the strengthened styling and colorant side. So we think that complimentaryness is there.  

I think we will have a better idea where we stand on Wella in six to nine months when we've actually had a chance to operate the business with them.  

ANDREW MCQUILLING: And I guess, you know, from the initial outlook, at 300 million in synergies, still very comfortable with that number? Or are you smiling right now?  

CLAYTON DALEY: Well, I mean again, it is early. It is early on. But, we are still feeling that that is a reasonable number. And yet, obviously, if there is more, we're not going to stop there.  

ALAN LAFLEY: We are going to try to beat it.  

JUAN PEDRO HERNANDEZ: Remember the $3 million was by year, 300, the $300 million by year three.  

ANDREW MCQUILLING: And maybe one more if I could.  

People have been panicked by the September '03 volume comp and it seems like you came through in flying colors. Can you talk more about maybe the market development organizations and after three years of operating them, what your key learnings have been? Because it seems like your -- everything is working.  

You know, I can't remember a period where P&G, everything worked so well. Can you talk about where you see the momentum maybe slowing, if ever?  

ALAN LAFLEY: Okay.  

Well, first on the market development operations, I think -- well, I think we have a very unique organization structure. I think after four years, we have learned low to operate it. It is a complementary structure, you know, not an overlapping or trade-off structure. I think we're benefiting from three things, really.  

One is our innovation, you know, from idea generation, new product creation, and frankly, our commercialization rate on the innovation side. We are clearly benefiting from that on the GVU side and one of the reasons we're commercializing so well is I think we're executing with excellence on the MDO side.  

And what is happening in the MDO is we have sort of, over 25 years, moved from a sales organization, that called on the trade to a customer business development organization that tried to create a partnership by customer to a market development operation that is sort of -- takes -- has built the customer business development relationship and ties even stronger, and expands it to, an operation that really understands the consume in that market. And that's what is making the difference.  

So when we go to market, if we are clear about which consumers, consumer or consumers we're targeting, the market development organization knows, you know, how to get to that consumer, what kind of awareness activity to run, what kind of trial vehicle works, you know, on, on, on, and that is enabling the GVU initiatives to be more successful.  

And frankly, both our GVUs and MDOs are benefiting from our GBS organization, which handles all of the daily transactions, and allows these two business operations to stay focused on what they do best.  

You know, I think, you know, the proof is sort inform the pudding here, where we've got, you know, most of our virtually all of our top brands growing. Okay?  

In every region and on the countryside, we -- you know, I've got -- I'm looking down our top 16 countries, you know, we have 14 of 16 growing and one stable. So only one down. You know, and that is -- you're right. It is very difficult for us to turn in that kind of performance in the past, and I think the reason we're doing it is because the market development operations are closer to the consumer and working very well with the customers on sort of a country-by-country basis.  

ANDREW MCQUILLING: Thank you very much.  

Very helpful.  

CLAYTON DALEY: Thank you.  

OPERATOR: And that will conclude today's question-and-answer session. Gentlemen, I'll turn the call back over to you for any additional or closing remarks.  

CLAYTON DALEY: All right.  

Thanks very much for joining us today.  

As I said we tried to reduce the length of the call but as I said at the beginning John Goodwin, Juan Pedro and I will be around to answer any follow-up questions you have.  

Thanks very much for joining us this morning.  

OPERATOR: That concludes today's conference.  

Thank you, everyone, for your participation.  

[CCBN reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES CCBN ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. Copyright 2003, CCBN, Inc. All Rights Reserved.]  

[Copyright: Content copyright 2003 CCBN, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Electronic format, layout and metadata, copyright 2003 FDCH e-Media, Inc. (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.) ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user's personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon CCBN's or FDCH e-Media's copyright or other proprietary rights or interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CCBN and FDCH e-Media so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CCBN and FDCH e-Media as the originators and copyright holders of such material. This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation.]  

   CO
prgml : The Procter & Gamble Company
   IN
i25 : Chemicals | i258 : Cosmetics/Toiletries | icnp : Consumer Products
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
FDCH e-Media--Format B
   AN
Document FNDW000020031110dzar0008e
  


 HD
 Q4  2003  Procter  & Gamble Company Earnings Conference Call - Final  
   WC
12,353 words
   PD
31 July 2003
   SN
FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
(c) Copyright 2003 CCBN and FDCH e-Media.  

   LP
OPERATOR: Good day everyone and welcome to the Proctor & Gamble fourth quarter earnings conference call. This call is being recorded. As a reminder, a rebroadcast of the call, in whole or in part, is strictly prohibited, without the written permission of Proctor & Gamble Company.  

Now, at this time for opening remarks and introductions, I would like to turn the call over to Chief Financial Officer, Clayt Daley. Sir, you may begin.  

   TD
CLAYT DALEY, CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER, PROCTER & GAMBLE COMPANY: Thank you. Good morning and welcome to Proctor & Gamble's end of the quarter conference call.  

A.G. Lafley, our Chairman and CEO, and Juan Pedro Hernandez, our VP and Treasurer, are joining us this morning. I'll begin the call today with a summary of our fourth quarter results and a review of the Company's restructuring program. Juan Pedro will go cover the results by operating segment, A.G. will follow with his perspective on the fiscal year, and then I'll wrap up with the expectations for the fiscal year just started, and more specifically for the July - September quarter. As always, we'll have plenty of time at the end of today's call for your questions. Following the call, A.G., Juan Pedro and I will be available to provide additional perspective as needed over the phone.  

Now, I do want to mention upfront that we do have a lot of material to cover today in the prepared comments.  

Now, as required by Regulation G, we need to make you aware that during the call, we will make a number of references to poor sales, poor earnings and poor earnings per share. These are non-GAAP measures, that management believes provide our investors valuable information on the underlying growth trends of our business. The only difference between reported amounts is the restructuring charges. In order to insure full understanding, we have posted on the investor pages of our website, at  www.pg.com, a full reconciliation between non-GAAP measures to U.S. GAAP to provide additional clarification.  

Now on to our results. We completed the year with high quality fourth quarter. Core EPS growth was up 13%, above our prior guidance. This wraps up a very strong fiscal year that represents the kind of balance, top line, and bottom line growth that we are shooting for over the long term. Diluted net earnings per share were 68 cents on the quarter, including 261 million in after-tax restructuring costs. Core net earnings, which exclude restructuring costs, were 87 cents per share, up 13% versus a strong year-ago comparison and a penny above the consensus estimate. Total core sales growth was 8%. This growth is particularly impressive given the strong base period, the drag of the Jiff/Crisco spinoff, and the disruption to our business caused by the tornado that hit our Jackson manufacturing facility for Pringles. Foreign exchange helped sales by 4% as strengthen Euro and British pound more than offset continued weakness in Latin-American currencies. Excluding the impact of currency exchange and the acquisitions and divestitures, organic sales growth was up 5%. Volume was up 6% continuing the go momentum that our business has achieved throughout the fiscal year, excluding acquisitions and divestitures, volume was up.  

On a geographic basis our volume is broadbased with all regions posting positive indices versus the prior year period. Our developing market had a particularly impressive quarter continuing double digit growth posted in the previous three years. Pricing was down 1% versus year ago primarily due to one-time price adjustment taken last fuel on Crest White Strips and promotional spending in the U.S. coffee and tissue market. Core operating income was up 11%. Core operating margin increased over 50 basis points. Slightly above the top end of guidance. This year-over-year improvement was driven by strong double digit profit growth in beauty and health care businesses.  

Core gross margin increased 60 basis points. The increase was driven primarily by the scale benefits associated with solid volume growth and from the combination of base business savings project and restructuring activities. Core marketing research and administrative costs were up slightly as a percent of sales on the quarter. Higher marketing spending more than offset overhead cost reductions from restructuring activities and tight ongoing cost control. The increase in marketing spending was behind key product initiatives, including Crest Night Effects Olay Regenerist, Swiffer Duster, continued expansion of Herbal Essences and Bold in Japan and Mr. Proper in Germany.  

Our effective tax rate was 30% for the quarter, a reduction of 50 basis points over the same period a year ago. For the year our tax rate on a core basis was down 20 basis points. This reflects the growth in our international businesses many of which have lower tax rates than the U.S.  

For the year, operating cash flow totalled 8.7 billion dollars, up nearly 1 billion dollars versus last year. Higher earnings and improvements in working capital were the main drivers of operating cash flow improvement. Our working capital improvements were behind increases in payable days while our inventory days were flat year-over-year. The June numbers were up due to the Prilosec OTC inventory build in preparation for the July/September launch, and F X impact caused by a weaker dollar. If we eliminate these factors the underlying inventory days improved by about two days.  

The payables increase was driven by the Prilosec OTC tablet buy-in, higher marketing payables, and exchange controls in some developing market. We expect about half of the increase to reverse over the course of the next couple of quarters. Free cash flow for the fiscal year was 7.2 billion, an increase of 19% from the prior year. Free cash flow productivity was 139%, and this is the third year in succession that the Company has achieved free cash flow productivity in excess of 100% of earnings, a true testament to the heightened emphasis on cash generation and total shareholder return.  

Capital spending came in just under 1.5 billion, or 3.4% of sales, well below our going-in target of 5% of sales. Importantly, we have achieved this reduced level of spending without foregoing any strategic investments in capacity or innovation programs. Below capital spending in 2002-3 is partly due to a significant reduction in our diaper capital spending following the completion of our manufacturing re platforming. However, it also reflects continued success by all of our global business units to seek out and apply new lower capital business solutions. Our strengthened use of total shareholder return as a performance evaluation tool has increased the emphasis on improved cash flow and capital efficiency. In addition, we now have an organization structure that better integrates the capital investment, the product design programs and the marketing expansion decisions.  

As we continue to learn more about how to effectively operate under our new organization design, we are more confident that capital spending levels of the last two years are sustainable. As a result, we now expect normal operating capital spending to be at about 4% of sales. More than 2 percentage points lower than the Company's average capital spending throughout the '90s. Now, there may be exceptional years in the future when specific business circumstances lead to spending above this target, such as capacity additions, particularly in tissue. But our normalized capital spending is likely to remain at about 4%.  

As announced in the analyst meeting in December, the June 2003 quarter marks the end of our multi--year restructuring program, a year earlier than originally planned. The Company will return to a single number reporting system as of July 2003. Now, the restructuring program has resulted in extensive and fundamental changes to Procter & Gamble. Since the program was initiated, we have first restructured the organization into global business units, market development organizations and global business services, moving away from our geographically based structure. This was accompanied by a reduction of 18,000 positions to ensure our cost structure was competitive. Second, we divested, closed, or wrote down a number of brands and assets that had underperformed or no longer consistent with our strategic direction. Third, we consolidated manufacturing facilities in order to capture benefits from scale and lower ongoing capital needs.  

Total after-tax charges under the program for 2002-3 were about $500 million, bringing the total spending for the program to 3.8 billion. This is $600 million lower than the estimates provided back in June 2001 when the program was initially expanded. Total after-tax savings for 2002-3 were roughly 450 million. We anticipate about 200 million of additional after-tax savings to flow through in fiscal 2004. This will bring the cumulative after-tax savings to about 1.7 billion. This results in a ratio of savings to charges in line with the original expectations. Net the restructuring program has met all of our objectives, we're discontinuing core reporting a year early and have delivered the program at a lower total cost while delivering savings in line with expectations.  

Going forward we will continue to conduct ongoing productivity and cost savings projects as part of our normal operations. We estimate these costs will be in the range of 150 to $200 million per year. We're building our financial plans in 2004 and beyond to include this level of restructuring activity. I need to stress that the charges associated with these future projects will be absorbed in normal operating costs. This ongoing effort will help to keep our operating structure responsive to the evolving business needs and avoid significant one-time interventions in the future. We are committed to maintaining a high-quality balance sheet going forward.  

Now I'll turn it over to Juan Pedro for a discussion of the business unit results by segment.  

JUAN PEDRO HERNANDEZ, TREASURER & VICE PRESIDENT, PROCTER & GAMBLE COMPANY: Thank you, Clayt.  

Our business unit delivered strong top-line growth with volume up 8% on sales increasing 11% to 3.3 billion. Sales growth includes a 3% benefit from F X. Earnings increased 6% to 499 million. Earnings growth lacked sales growth due to increased marketing investments to support our innovation program, including new brand launches.  

On fabric care, several mid-tear laundry introductions have helped drive volume growth. In Japan, the bulk launch has helped to grow quarterly volume over 20%. And P&G's volume share in laundry is up over 4 percentage points. In China, volume in the quarter more than doubled versus year ago behind the launch of a Tide In Germany the Mr. Proper laundry launch is off to a solid start with positive initial customer and consumer response. Importantly, the base laundry business continued to perform strongly. Fabric care volume was up 5% in North America. With U.S. outlet value share for the past three months up over 2 percentage points to the high 50's. The three biggest brands, Tide, Cheer, and Gain, all grew share. Also, in emerging markets, our leading brand, Ariel continued to grow at double-digit rates. Ariel's growth has helped Russia and Turkey grow value share over 8 percentage points versus last year.  

On home care, the Swiffer brand continued its strong performance. Swiffer's past three months U.S. volume share of the cleaning system's category is up mid-teen percentage points to over 60%. The increase has been behind the early success of Swiffer Duster and the ongoing growth of Swiffer Wet Jet. Swiffer now leads the U.S. cleaning systems segment by over 30 share points.  

The Dawn brand has continued to grow share behind the new Dawn Power Dissolver initiative. Dawn's value share of the U.S. segment is up 4 share points to over 40%. Dawn now leads the category by about 10 share points.  

The beauty care business unit posted strong top and bottom line results in the quarter. Volume grew 6% behind solid feminine, hair, and skin care results. Sales increased by 10% to 3.1 billion, including 4% gain from F X. Earnings for the quarter for hair were 466 million at 39% increase versus year ago. Strong earnings performance was driven by volume growth, with savings from integration and lower material costs. The product and overhead savings more than offset increased marketing investments in the quarter. Feminine care volume grew 8%. Results were strong across multiple geographies. In the U.K. volume share in pads, liners, and tampons are at or near two-year high's. In Mexico, it's grown to 15% volume share and has helped brace P&G's share to nearly 35%. P&G now leads the Mexico Femcare market by about 5 value share points. In the U.S., our outlet share are up nearly 2 points and Tampax tampons are up nearly 2 points.  

Hair care also boasted strong results. Volume grew 7% with increases in all regions and in all major brands. Pantene, Head & Shoulders, [INAUDIBLE] and Pert. Volume grew 14% behind continued global success and the greasy hair initiative in Asia. Head and shoulder blackening offered consumers Dandruff protection plus silky radiant black hair.  

Our other results were mixed. U.S. women's is showing an improving trend after bottoming out in February/March. It is down versus year ago. Volume was down following a strong initiative sale last quarter behind the new Nice'n Easy product and the mid tear restage of the Ulta brand. On the contrary, the U.K. was a bright spot for color in the quarter. Volume was up double digits and volume share for the May/June period was up modestly. We had a steadily building in hair color and are committed to winning in this category. Olay Skin Care business continued to deliver outstanding performance behind innovation, leadership, based on real science. Volume grew 16%, including growth of 13% in the mature U.S. market.  

Now turning to baby and family care, this business unit delivered another strong quarter with unit volume up 6% behind product initiatives and sharper price competitiveness. Sales were up 9% to 2.5 billion dollars. F X helped sales by 5% on positive mix from premium tier diapers added 1%. Temporary price adjustments and promotion investments to remain competitive in sales reduced sales by 3%. Importantly, earnings of 165 million dollars were up 15%. The earnings increase was driven by volume growth and manufacturing cost savings.  

Pampers continues to deliver very strong global share growth. In western Europe the past three months diaper value share was up more than 2 share points to over 50%. In the U.S., past three months, all outlet volume share for Pampers diapers was also up over 2 share points. In addition to the strong share growth on Pampers, past three months the U.S. value share was up more than a point to nearly 10%. Pampers Baby Stages of Development has been in the marketplace for more than one year in both western Europe and North America, and it continues to drive the baby care share growth versus the pre launch premium tier segment, value share in both regions is up over 50% to 15% in western Europe and 10% in North America. Pampers Easy Ups value share in the U.S. continues to grow and is now over 20% of the training pants segment. Diaper growth in Asia is gaining momentum behind product initiatives and consumer fundamentals. Past three months, volume share in northeast Asia has is up over 4 points to above 20% behind competitive pricing and the thinner, diaper pant upgrade. In China, value share is now in the mid 30's, more than double the next largest competitor.  

The family care results remain as strong in North America driven by continued innovation leadership. Bounty volume was up 8% behind the selling of the improved absorbency and appearance initiative. Charmin past three month, all outlet shares in the U.S. increased nearly a point behind the Charmin Scents and Charmin Ultra with Aloe and Vitamin E initiatives. Also, puffs facial tissues up over a share point. In western Europe, the past three months, family share was up by a full share point with solid share growth on both Bounty and Charmin. U.K. Bounty is leading the share growth in the region with past three month value share up over 2 points to nearly 18%.  

Health care delivered another strong quarter on volume, sales, and earnings growth. Volume grew 18% behind oral care, personal health care, and pharmaceutical results, all growing volume double digits. Sales were 1.4 billion dollars, up 12%. F X helped the sales by 3%. Sales trailed volume due to a negative mix of 6%, primarily due to a higher percentage of Actonel volume sold through our alliance agreement with our partner. This pipeline shipments are to support the global expansion of the once-a-week dosage, and the alliance agreement, P&G's sales, these volumes at the lower sales rate, than domestic unit sales.  

Also costing sales to lack volume were negative mix from rapid growth of Crest toothpaste in emerging markets and the one-time pricing adjustment last fall on Crest Whitestrips. Earnings for the quarter were 110 million, an increase of 29%. Strong earnings performance was driven by volume growth and other savings which more than offset higher market and investment needed to support our initiatives program. This included the launch of Crest Night Effects and continued support for Iams Pet Nutrition initiatives. Oral care delivered excellent volume and share growth in the quarter. Volume was up over 30%. The Crest Night Effects launch drove value share of the U.S. whitening systems category to over 60%. That is roughly double the nearest competitor. More important, we estimate that total category size grew by over 20% in the first two months of the launch. Net Night Effects allowed us to capture all of the substantial market size growth, plus the incremental share growth. Of note, sales of Crest Whitening products easily exceeded 250 million dollars for the fiscal year.  

Pharmaceuticals continued to grow behind Actonel. Volume was up double digits despite a tough base period comparison that included pipeline volume for the launch of Actonel's once-a-week dosage in the U.S. Actonel continues to grow its share for the treatment of osteoporosis and it is now well over 20% of the market.  

Personal health care also boasted strong results driven by the Metamucil capsule and NyQuil cough initiatives. Metamucil carried a 13 year volume record and the NyQuil/Dayquil franchise is now vying for share leadership in the U.S. can have and cold segment.  

As you know, on June 20th we received FDA approval to market Prilosec over the counter for the treatment of frequent heartburn. We will start shipments toward the end of the current quarter. As we have communicated previously, we expect Prilosec to generate between 200 to 400 million in retail sales on an annual basis.  

The pet health care business increased sales in the U.S. grocery channel for the fourth year, consecutive month. The ongoing expansions of Iams Daily Care and the recent launch of Iams Large Breed product have contributed to the continued share and volume growth. Iams is now the number one brand in U.S. grocery and mass from having no business in these channels three years ago. Iams continues to beat economics by a wide margin.  

Snack and beverage had a difficult quarter. Volume was down 9%, primarily due to the interruption of Pringles' operations caused by the tornado that struck the Jackson, Tennessee manufacturing plant in early May. Volume was also lower in both juice drink and coffee. Sales were down 6%, primarily driven by lower volume. Foreign exchange helped sales by 4% which more than offset pricing investments on coffee in response to increased competitive promotional spending. Earnings were up $55 million down 20%, due to the impact from the tornado and lower volume. Prior to the tornado, Pringles had delivered several periods of share growth, both in the U.S. and in western Europe. Despite the significant tornado impact on shipments, the effect on consumption was relatively modest and was driven mainly by cancellation of merchandising due to supply constraints. Coffee shipments were down due to trade inventory adjustments following a period of heavy promotional activity. However, Folgers grew modestly outlet value share in the quarter. The coffee category is going through a period of unprecedented levels of promotional spending is. We will continue to focus on equity building activities and innovation like the new Folgers Aroma sealed cannister that preserves freshness and includes specially did he sand integrated handle. However, we are determined to maintain Folgers shelf price competitiveness despite aggressive praising practices.  

And that concludes the business unit review. I will turn now the call over to A.G. Lafley.  

A.G. LAFLEY, CHAIRMAN, PRESIDENT & CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER, PROCTER & GAMBLE COMPANY: Thanks, Juan Pedro.  

We're pleased with the year we've just completed. In fact, we turned in the best all-around results in nearly a decade. Volume was up 8%, sales were up 8% to 43.4 billion. Excluding the impact of foreign exchange, sales increased 6% on the year at the top end of our target range. Core earnings were up 13% to 5.7 billion. Core earnings per share up 14% to $4.08. Cash flow was up nearly 20%. In fact, we generated over 7 billion in free cash flow, bringing our three-year totals to nearly 17 billion. Two and a half times the amount P&G generated in the prior three years and more than enough to continue strong dividend growth, repurchase stock, and acquire Clairol and Wella.  

Results were broad-based. Four of five global business units delivered both top and bottom line growth at or above Company targets. Six of seven regions delivered top-line growth, 19 of the top 20 brands increased volume, and P&G brands grew their market shares in categories accounting for nearly 80% of sales. What's important here is that these results are being driven from P&G's core existing businesses. The positive top-line growth impact of the Clairol acquisition was offset by the divestiture of Jiff and Crisco. In fact, 100% of 2002-3 growth was organic. The health of existing businesses -- of core businesses, and the factors underlying that health are what convinced me this business strength is sustainable.  

There are four underlying factors driving P&G's organic growth. First, we're growing our leading brands. Billion dollar brands and those with our sites set on bold status. These are brands with equities that take years to build. And we're defining those equities more clearly than ever. Pampers stands for baby development. Crest for oral care and healthy smiles, Olay for enhancing all that is beautiful in women. Brands that our platforms of trust that will support broad innovation programs.  

Secondly, we're leading innovation. P&G has always been at it best when we lead innovation that creates new benefits and new categories. We're innovating at this level once again. At the heart of P&G innovation are some important changes. We've broadened the way we think about innovation, about what it is, where it comes from, and how it's commercialized. We've also made systemic changes to support and sustain this new mindset. Namely, our connect and develop and launch and leverage programs. As a result, P&G is achieving higher levels of initiative success.  

Three quick examples. Crest whitening product have redefined and exploded the mass whitening category. Two years ago teeth whitening in the U.S. was a $50 million niche business. Today's it's a mass category with more than 750 million in retail sales. Six out of every ten U.S. retail dollars being spent in this category are on Crest Whitening product.  

Swiffer is another good example. The global surface cleaning systems category simply didn't exist five years ago. Today it's nearly a $900 million retail category driven significantly by Swiffer. In fact, Swiffer Wet Jet has helped to double the size of this category in just two years. The extension of the Dry Swiffer Mop and the new forms, like Swiffer Wet Jet, the Swiffer Mitt, and the Swiffer Duster have led P&G to over a 60 share in the U.S.  

The third example is innovation on the Olay brand. Olay is a global leader in bringing real science to the skin care category. The most recent innovation is Olay Regenerist, which includes amino-peptides that are proven to help repair skin cells. Regenerist has achieved a 9 share of the U.S. facial moisturizer category in only three months. Innovations like Regenerist and Total Effects have propelled the U.S. Olay business to around a 40 share in facial moisturizer, an increase of 12 share points versus last year. Olay is not only a developed market story. This brand is growing in developing markets as well. In China, for example, Olay has delivered 70% volume growth in just the past year.  

The third indicator of sustainable organic growth is that we're now seeing the benefits of P&G's unique organization. Our global business unit, global business service, and marketing development organization structure is dramatically improving. Our decision-making, our consumer responsiveness, our initiative speed to market, our retail customer relationships, and the Company's ability to capture scale.  

For example, the marketing development organization are teams of professionals who lead our customer and country business groups. These teams bring together initiatives from every global business unit and create multi-category business plans in more than 100 local markets around the world. No other consumer goods company has a similar structure. What's most encouraging is that the benefits of this MDO structure are just starting to kick in. We've learned a great deal since we've first assigned this new organization in 1999. As we gain experience, we're seeing better business plans, stronger customer relationships, and stronger, more sustainable P&G growth. I'm confident we've only scratched the surface of what our new organization structure is capable of delivering.  

Fourth, we're delivering better performing products at lower prices by keeping our costs low and capturing greater advantage from global scale. In the past two years, we've grown core gross margins by 300 basis points. We've reduced overhead spending from being among the highest in the industry to being in line with or even a bit below some of our peers. We've reduced annual capital spending by over 1.5 billion per year to operating levels around 4% of sales. We've created a much leaner cost and capital structure that we're translating into better consumer and shareholder value.  

At the same time, we're leveraging P&G scale for advantage. We're continuing to reap big savings in the costs of advertising media, while materials, business services and a host of other areas that help us keep costs low so we can offer our brands and products at prices consumers find compelling and a good value. These are underlying factors we can sustain, and they're driving P&G growth in developed and developing markets alike. We're building billion dollar brands. Olay just became P&G's 13th brand to generate a billion dollars or more in sales. Crest is approaching the 2 billion mark after being less than 1 billion just two years ago. Actonel is on track for billion dollar status by 2005, Prilosec, as we said, is expected to deliver over 200 million in sales in just its first year over the counter.  

We're growing in developed and developing markets. North America increased unit volume by 7% for the seventh straight year of growth. Western Europe volume was also up in high single digits. Japan volume was up double digits this last year. In developing markets, volume was up mid teens and profits up even more. We've ignited our business in many lower income market with far more competitive cost structures, with manufacturing models that are far less capital intensive, and with innovation tailored to the specific needs and affordability of lower income consumers. In Russia, our business grew by over 30%. In China our business continues to be the fastest growing with growth in excess of 40%. Our Chinese business has now become our fifth largest international market in volume terms. Despite these successes, less than 25% of P&G's sales come from lower income markets. Well below the level of many of our peers. There's plenty of room left to grow in the developing world.  

Indeed there are significant opportunities for growth remaining in all the areas we are focused on. I'm confident we can extend brand leadership in core categories and in faster growing, higher margin businesses alike. I'm confident we can keep growing faster in our top markets with our largest customers. I'm confident we can sustain and improve upon the more efficient operating structure we've put in place. In short, I'm confident P&G can sustain organic growth in the coming year and the years beyond.  

There have been some questions over the past several months about P and G's acquisition strategy. That's understandable given the announcement of Wella. However, it's important that this is kept in context. If Wella is fully combined with P&G, it will represent less than 10% of total Company sales. Net over 90% of this Company's future combined sales and growth opportunities are outside of the acquisition. Over 90% of our growth opportunities are organic. Acquisitions are never easy. We don't make acquisition choices lightly.  

But there are strategic opportunities that do make sense, the long term health and growth of our Company, and we pursue them when they become available. We're clear strategically about where we want to play and how to leverage P&G's core strengths. We apply that clarity to each and every acquisition opportunity and decision. We try to acquire in and around our core businesses, our core capabilities and competencies. We're rigorous in our financial assessments of potential acquisitions and discipline in the price we pay. And we've demonstrated, with Iams and with Clairol, that we can integrate relatively large businesses into our new organization structure quickly, and with minimal disruption, and that we can operate the businesses better than their prior owners to drive stronger, more sustainable growth. We're building on our acquisition experience and improving our track record.  

In short, our strategic financial and operating discipline ensures P&G's acquisition activities create meaningful shareholder value over the long term. But our number-one task is growing our existing 43 brand business organically. P&G's strategy is designed to deliver growth from this core. That focus has gotten us back on track over the past three years. That focus on core has driven the best results we've delivered in almost a decade, and that focus on the core is the basis of my confidence in P&G's future.  

We're emerging from our restructuring re-energized, with clear strategies, strong brands, a full innovation pipeline, and a diverse, experienced leadership team. P&G is well positioned for solid, sustainable growth in 2004 fiscal year and beyond. We'll talk more about this at the shareholders meeting on October 14. We'll also beholding an investment analyst conference on December 10 and 11 in Cincinnati. I hope you will be able to join us on that date.  

Now I'll turn it over to Clayt for comments on Wella and future guidance.  

CLAYT DALEY: Thanks, A.G..  

Before closing with guide answers I want to provide a brief update on the Wella acquisition. As you would have seen from our press release yesterday, we have now received antitrust clearance in the EU and anticipate that the deal will close in early September. We have previously received clearance in the U.S., Canada, and Japan, Mexico is now the only outstanding regulatory clear answer for the closure of the acquisition. P&G's tender offer for the Wella closed on June 20. We are very pleased with the outcome of the tender. The combination of the share purchase agreement with the family owners and the shares from the tender offer will give P&G 79% of the registered capital of Wella on closing. Importantly, we will have over 98% of the voting shares.  

We are also very pleased that Dr. Girdler has formerly accepted a position with Procter & Gamble and will join Procter & Gamble's global leadership council and will continue to lead the Wella organization as we go through the transition process. We remain confident in our ability to achieve the synergies we've presented at the time we announced the acquisition in March. In addition, we continue to expect that the deal will be non-dilutive for the first 12 months. I will provide more details on the specific 2003-4 impact of Wella about the time of the closing.  

Now for guidance. Note that all statements exclude both the impact of Wella and the potential divestiture of our juice business. For fiscal 2004 we expect to continue the strong top-line momentum of the last 18 months and will achieve our long-terms earnings growth goals for the third year in succession, despite still relatively weak economies and, of course, coming up against stronger base periods. On the top line, we expect sales growth, excluding foreign exchange, to be toward the top end of our long-term 4 to 6% growth range. Based on today's currency rates, we anticipate foreign exchange will have a positive impact of 1 to 2% on sales. This is again behind the strength in the Euro, the Pound, and the Yen.  

Organic volume growth, excluding the impact of acquisition and divestitures is expected to be up 5 to 7%. This will be driven by continued base business strength of strong initiative pipeline, and the launch of Prilosec OTC. On earnings per share, we are comfortable with the current consensus estimates. We expect to achieve double digit growth versus the year-ago earnings per share period even after absorbing ongoing restructuring charges of 150 to 200 million dollars in the base earnings. Operating margins are expected to expand about 20 to 50 basis points. We anticipate that the majority of this expansion will come from lower cost of goods sold. This operating margin expansion is a bit lower than outlined in our December analyst meeting, but this really reflect higher levels of marketing spending behind initiatives that are driving the sales growth at the upper end of the range. The tax rate for the Company is expected to decline year-over-year by 20 to 40 base points. This will bring the average corporate tax rate to between 30.5 and 30.7%. This is behind a continued strong business growth in those parts of the world where the tax rates are lower.  

As we review the pipeline of activities and base year comparisons, we expect earnings growth will be balanced between the front half and the back half of the fiscal year. Specifically in the September quarter, we expect to continue strong top and bottom line momentum achieved through out last fiscal year. Volume is projected to increase by 5 to 7%, despite a very strong base period where we delivered double digit year-over-year volume growth. The growth is expected to be driven by health care and the continued strength and developing market. Total sales are expected to be up in the mid to high single digits. At current rates foreign exchange is expected to have a 2 to 3% positive impact on sales. We expect sales, excluding foreign exchange, to be up 5 to 7%. Top line growth will be driven primarily by health care and beauty care.  

Our earnings per share, we are again comfortable with the current consensus estimates for the quarter. Operating margins should be up 10 to 30 basis points. Year-over-year cost reductions will be offset by marketing investment to drive the top line, such as new product initiatives in oral care, baby care, and, of course, the launch of Prilosec OTC. Non operating income will be down in the September quarter versus year ago, due to gains from the divestiture of our Vicks brand in Japan and the base period which were part of other income.  

Now that concludes the business comments for the quarter. As you know, this discussion is included a number of forward-looking statements. If you will refer to our most recent 10-K reports you will see factors which could cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from these projections. Now at this point, A.G., Juan Pedro and I would be happy to take your questions.  

OPERATOR: The question-and-answer session will be conducted electronically today. If you would like to ask a question please signal us by pressing star 1 on your telephone keypad. Due to time constraints, we ask that you limit yourself to one question today. Again, that's star 1 if you do have a question. We'll pause for just a moment to assemble the roster. We'll turn first to Amy Chasen with Goldman Sachs.  

AMY CHASEN, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Can you talk a little bit more about working capital? The improvements continue to be impressive, and I was wondering if you could talk at all about your expectations in FY 04 for continued working capital improvements.  

CLAYT DALEY: As we have said before, as A.G. has said, we have a very strong focus that's emerging in the company on inventory. As we've said in the call, you know, we're not prepared to declare victory on capital spending, but we've clearly made lots of progress on capital spending so now we're turning the attention toward inventory.  

As I said in the script, if we exclude the buildup for the Prilo launch and the impact of F X, we made the progress of two days last year. We're certainly hoping to make continued progress on days outstanding, particularly as we think the foreign exchange impact may become a little bit less in 3-4 as the difference between the year-end position on currency and the sales, average currency rates for the year should be closer.  

And that, you know, we have some terrific work that has been done in cosmetics, we're trying to expand that work throughout the whole beauty care business. As you know, the beauty care health care businesses, tend to have more SKU's, tend to have somewhat more less turn over and are clearly the biggest opportunity for us to achieve additional inventory reduction.  

I do want to point out, though, I mentioned it in the call that, we do think that in the payables area, if you calculate the days payable, you will see a substantial improvement, meaning of course payable days going up, we believe that some of that is not nonrecurring and is going to come back in 3-4 but we're still feeling very good about our progress on working capital.  

AMY CHASEN: You have historically said you thought inventory could maybe come down 25% plus over a longer time horizon do you think that that could happen sooner rather than later?  

CLAYT DALEY: I'd be hesitant to -- reductions in inventory really are hard work, and, so you know, we would be looking to try to clip a couple of days off a year. That would be good progress. But, you know, particularly -- as you know, though, as the business shifts more towards health and beauty care, that actually works against us. If we can clip a day or two off in health and beauty, that's really pretty darn good performance  

AMY CHASEN: On the receivables side we continued to see improvement there. Do you expect that that will continue or do you think you're sort of rock bottom?  

A.G. LAFLEY: Amy, this is A.G.. On the receivables side, we've continued to make improvements every year even though as best we can tell we are best in class. I think we'll be able to make small improvements because there still are opportunities. There will be an opportunity when we integrate Wella. There was an opportunity when we integrated Clairol. There are opportunities in developing markets, and there are still a few opportunities in some channels in developed market. If I could just say one thing about this working capital, the strategies are, on our side, to become more capable and to produce closer to demand. So what really drove the cosmetics piece was we significantly increased our capability to produce to demand.  

The other strategy that really matters is our ability to manage with retailers the supply chain. The more we can work off their scanner, which is what we're trying to do now, the more we can work off consumption, the better we can manage the flow of product through the system. But those are the keys. Working with customers on the supply chain and produce the demand on our side.  

AMY CHASEN: Thanks a lot.  

OPERATOR: We'll turn now to Andrew Shore with Deutsche Banc.  

ANDREW SHORE, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANC: Good morning. A.G., there were fierce about Clairol, that Clairol is going to wind up being like cosmetics, which took you ten years to learn, and these fierce are linked to Wella in terms of if you can't get Clairol right, why should we think you can get Wella right. Can you discuss these fares and hopefully bag it up with some clarity? Then I have a follow-up.  

A.G. LAFLEY: Sure. Let's -- Andrew, let me touch on -- let's walk this through goal, strategy, current progress, and outlook. Okay? Because that's how I'm thinking about it.  

Recall the goal here was to extend and strengthen our leadership in the worldwide hair care business. And specifically, we want to take a position and begin to learn the colorance part of the hair care business because it was the fastest growing, and I don't think it's any secret that people of all ages, men and women, are coloring more and coloring more often around the world. So it looked like a promising growth business for some time.  

The strategic choice was to enter via acquisition because we believe, and still believe, that it would be lower cost entry and it would get us up the learning curve faster. Okay? And I think, and that comes to the current progress, that we're actually seeing that.  

You referred to cosmetics and fine fragrances. It took us too long to learn the cosmetics business, but I think we have learned it. Actually, we learned the fine fragrance business a bit faster and we've posted something like five years of mid-20% growth in that business and are doing quite well.  

Coming back to Clairol, the integration went faster and better than we thought. The synergies, you know, we blew [INAUDIBLE] what we could get and actually the N P V is higher than we thought we could get. We are doing better on hair care side. We thought we were buying two brand assets, Clairol and the Herbal Essences hair care asset. Our Herbal Essences volume is up 30% in the first half of this calendar year and we've really just begun the expansion in the central and eastern Europe so we think Herbal Essences is clearly a billion dollar brand.  

The other thing is we got these little jewels in some of the smaller hair care brands. In the last six to nine months, major competitors have introduced major brands into the U.S. Dove, we've actually built our volume share because we've been able to breathe some life into the Infuseium Daily Defenses, Aussie, and build our Pantene and Head & Shoulders brand. So they ended up being, at least in the short term, a defensive mechanism, and way argue in the long-term an offense is part of a full portfolio that offers a range of benefits and a range of price points. So I would say synergies ahead, hair care ahead.  

Colorance, I would say we're on track. You've got to remember, this business was neglected for four or five years, undersupported. The cupboard was relatively bare. Milked badly. We're out there with new advertising on all the brands in about a year. We've got the first rounds of initiatives out there. We're seeing a little bit of sequential share growth from the quarter in February and March, especially on Nice'n Easy and especially on Herbal Essences driven by the highlighting initiative. This is only the first round of product initiatives, and you're going to see another round, okay, in the next year. So I think what we've been able to do in colorance that we weren't able to do in cosmetics was to bring the product faster. Okay? And to get the new marketing on air.  

The other thing I would say is, you know, nobody planned on, nobody knew, that Wella was going to come on the market. That surprised all of us. At least, it surprised us. And we're going to turn it into strategic advantage, because now we're going to be able to put together P&G, Clairol, and Wella scientists, okay, and between the three of us, we've got a fair amount of technology. So I think this will accelerate our innovation programs. Yes, we'll have an integration challenge, but actually Wella is pretty simple, because we'll put the retail hair care business, plug it right into our business, which was a quick integration, just like we had with Clairol, and we've made the conscious choice to have Dr. Girdler her to continue to run the professional business and the cosmetics business. He's done a very good job with this business, very competitive against Lorial and the best competition that he's up against over the last five years. So he will be a real asset, he and the key players from his leadership team.  

So kind of a long-winded way of saying, I think we're on track. Now, you know, are we going to learn some things, are we going to have our ups and downs? Of course we are. Lorial is a fantastic competitor. They are the leaders in this marketplace. But I feel real good about our technology odds and our innovation odds and the ability to bring real science to this business. I feel pretty good that we will be able to learn the branding. And we go to market in these channels about as well as anybody in the world. And with Wella's retail resources and our retail resource, I think we're going to be competitive  

ANDREW SHORE: Thank you, that's helpful. One quick follow-up. As you're probably aware by now, the head of the hygiene business resigned. You're giving them certainly a run for their money in consumer tissue, particularly in U.K. and Germany. Is this an opportunity where you already have a knee on their back to apply more pressure, or do you back off?  

A.G. LAFLEY: Well, I guess, Andrew, is the question about what is our strategy in western Europe on tissue?  

ANDREW SHORE: Are you comfortable with your current share, or is this now an opportunity to -- you see a little bit of blood. Do you go further?  

A.G. LAFLEY: Clearly on the diaper side, you know, we're going to stay on offense, and we're going to stay on offense with innovation. And I think that, you know, we're back above the 50 share in three of our top five countries. You know, we're at two or more share highs. We're above a 55 share in the U.K. now, and we're up 8 share points in Germany, we're up five share points in France and getting close to a 50 share. We're almost a 60 share in Italy. So we are clearly on offense in baby care, and we continue to like this personal care business. We have work to do. We have a lot of work to do, because we still have to get more costs out. We've got to be lean and fast innovating, and, you know, Mark and Deb, I think, are doing a super job of driving better, cheaper, more flexible, and faster. So we are going to stay on offense in baby care in western Europe.  

Femcare, I think you're just seeing the beginning of -- I'm sorry this one has taken a little longer for us to get going, but in Femcare we're back hitting two-year share highs in western Europe, and some of the innovation is starting to show subpoena in all of different market, and I feel like the cupboard ask being filled up and we're going to be able to, you know, being very competitive in all of the segments in Femcare over the next couple of years. So, yeah, those are both core businesses. We count on core businesses for growth and, you know, we're very much focused on we've got to grow organically first. So, yeah, we're going to stay on offense.  

ANDREW SHORE: Thanks. A.G. Now you could probably go back to picking up your guitar again.  

A.G. LAFLEY: I'm still playing only in private.  

OPERATOR: We'll turn next to Wendy Nicholson with Salomon Smith Barney.  

WENDY NICHOLSON, ANALYST, SALOMON SMITH BARNEY: Two questions. My first is about pricing and promotion. Over the last couple of years there's been sort of a price mix drag on the top line of 2.5 to 3 points. As we look into '04, if I'm using the middle of the range of your guidance, looks like you're expecting that to drop to only a negative drag of about 1 point but it seems like there's a fairly tight correlation over the last couple years with higher volumes, which isn't surprising, but given that your outlook for next year is sort of higher volumes with negative pricing, is there some mixed shift that you are anticipating, or do you think just the environment is improving? If you could comment on that that would be terrific?  

CLAYT DALEY: I think it's a little bit of a combination of the two. We clearly have an initiative program that is, while, you know, I don't want to warn you with the impression that we're not still pushing hard in developing markets to expand some of the mid-tier and low-tier opportunities that do tend to create some negative mix. We still have a very good program in the premium end, things like Prilosec, initiatives on premium tier, diapers and so forth would say that there's a good high-end SKU on the initiative program. The other thing I think that's going on is, yes, over the last two years I think we've been very trance parents that we had to improve our value in a number of our product lines, and I think you can assume that this guidance suggest that we've got -- we think, under pretty good control now.  

A.G. LAFLEY: If I could just comment on the last one, Wendy, we track on a monthly basis, actually, probably the businesses track it on a weekly and daily basis, our pricing versus target. And our pricing versus target, the target is what price do we have to be at on specific brands in specific countries to deliver a consumer value that will grow our market shares. And we score these on a regular basis, green, yellow and red. And we are at a point where we have very few red left. And we fairly methodically work against this because it's foundational. If you're not priced right, you know, you can't even get a look at the first moment of truth, right at the purchase occasion.  

But while we've been doing this we've also been growing our gross margins. So we pay very careful attention to our costs. This isn't crazy, we're chasing prices. We're trying to always always optimize and find the combination of brand, product benefit, and price that represent superior consumer value and then find the combination of volume growth, sales, and share growth, and, of course, margin and profit growth, that's the right shareholder value. It's a balancing act.  

WENDY NICHOLSON: And that leads me kind of to my next question, which is a follow-up to an Andrew's's on Clairol. The thing that, I guess, has surprised me post the Clairol acquisition is just the, really, weak growth in the hair coloring category. Not your shares as much as the growth in the category, because I know when you acquired Clairol, part of the contention, or the argument, was that hair coloring is sort of a growth advantaged category, at least in the U.S., when we look at Nielsen numbers, it's been a negative growth category for the last two years. Is that a category that you think would benefit from sort of a, you know, right sizing, if you will, from a pricing standpoint, or is it just a lack of innovation? What gets that category growing?  

A.G. LAFLEY: Two points here. One is that it definitely has slowed in the U.S., you're right. And it was growing at higher rates before. But on a worldwide basis, Wendy, it's still growing pretty smartly. And there are, you know, some markets in the world where it's growing very strongly. And we are thinking about this on a worldwide basis, and one of if beauties of Wella is it gives us strong position in western Europe, and in central and eastern Europe, and we'll of course drive that. It gives us a strong position in L.A., which is all up side for us, and, frankly, they're the leading brand in Japan, and we've used Japan as a number of categories as a platform for moving west into China and southeast Asia.  

In the U.S., I think there are two issues. One is innovation. There simply has not been the rate of innovation. There have been a couple of interesting new products that have just been brought to market in the last six months. One by Lorial, the highlighting product, like we've brought on Herbal Essences, but I hate to say it. If you look at the category, if you went and looked at the shelf ten years ago and you looked at the shelf today, there hasn't been anywhere near the dramatic amount of change that you would see in some of our other categories, even some of our household categories and personal care categories. So I think that's the primary issue, is innovation.  

And the other issue is, you know, related to the product innovation is just what I would call the marketing and retail ideation in innovation. There are a lot of opportunities to make this category more exciting. And then the third thing is, I think we have to begin to influence habits. One of the things we focus on when we try to grow a new category or create a new category, and this is what we did with Whitening, is we try to bring things out of the professional area, and I'm not talking about brands but I'm talking about habits and practices that you can do at home with less risk, more ease, you know, and all the rest of it. And we will try to make the home hair coloring process a much better experience, a much easier, much simpler experience. And I think that's a big opportunity.  

WENDY NICHOLSON: That's very helpful.  

A.G. LAFLEY: Thanks, Wendy.  

OPERATOR: Ann Gillin Lefever with Lehman Brothers, please go ahead.  

ANN GILLIAN LEFEVER, ANALYST, LEHMAN BROTHERS: Thanks. Good morning. A.G., when you talk about the four factors driving your sustainable organic growth, wondered if you could comment if you laid them out in sort of order of magnitude, because I think, similar to Wendy's prior question, the concern that folks have is that the contribution that you're getting from cost savings gave you quite a bit of opportunity to adjust your fourth factor on price and that clearly that's starting to reverse itself, the cost savings and contribution are going down and we're going to start absorbing the costs directly, the costs to continue to improve the organization.  

A.G. LAFLEY: I think, you know, Wendy, I'm sorry, Ann, we're staying -- we're staying very aggressive on the cost side. It's funny. I put them in the -- I sort of think about branding innovation and scale as the Company's, you know, core competitive advantages, and I'm just sort of used to talking about them in that way, and then I really do believe our organization structure is giving us go to market and scale cost advantage. So I guess -- I don't think we can get it done without all of them working together. You know, when we've tried -- whenever we've been in a situation where we don't have all these pieces working, you know, we're just not -- this is sort of a case of one-plus one plus one equals five or six, and when we miss one, we're just not as effective in the marketplace.  

So we are -- I mean, this may sound crazy to you, but we are, even with brands that are 30, 40, 50 years old, setting aside half a day to work on a brand equity and strategy to make sure we've got the strategy right for the consumer today. And it sounds like little things, but migrating Crest from care ease prevention to at home oral care and healthy smiles for life was a conscious decision to that enabled us to open our eyes and minds to a flow into a number of related categories a real drive to advance the whitening technologies, and we're now to the point where I think Dentipris is only a third or less of our total oral care business. And, you know, in terms of the growth side. In terms of the growth side.  

So I think it is all of them. I'm not concerned about the cost side because we're seeing tremendous creativity and tremendous continuing pressure on costs and cash. We set internal goals, okay, and our people are very competitive. You know, they are tracking on a benchmarking basis their best competitor. Well, in a business like fabric care where we're already well beyond, they're tracking best industries in the world to see what's possible on this side, and, you know, even with commodities price costs coming up a little bit, you know, we're not planning on any pricing.  

CLAYT DALEY: I actually really like the mode we're in where we're on the upper end of the sales growth targets, so that there's less pressure on building margin to achieve the profit objectives. And I think that's actually a better place to be than to you know, be forced to generate so much cost savings every year to generate the double digit GPS.  

JUAN PEDRO HERNANDEZ: By the way, the volume and sales, we have a tremendous growth and leverage from volume growth.  

ANN GILLIAN LEFEVER: That's what I was driving at. Thank you. So if we think about the numbers you laid out, Clayt, in terms of, you know, we're going to loose about 200 million pre-tax on contributions from cost action from restructuring, you're not at all suggesting that it's the end of your ability to benefit from things like volume leverage, et cetera.  

CLAYT DALEY: That's absolutely correct. Again, we've got this ongoing restructuring built into the base plan, and that should generate savings that continue to roll forward into the upcoming years.  

JUAN PEDRO HERNANDEZ: And you have heard the beginning of our outsourcing program in G B.S.. There are a number of programs to sustain.  

A.G. LAFLEY: And I know we've dragged on, on this one, but I want to mention three very quickly. We've been working for years and are now expanding something that would be simply called flexible formulas. And the way flexible formulas work is we move to -- we have form law cards that are adjustable based on the prices of raw materials that are substitutable in the formula. And we've gotten, you know, quite competent at this in some of our businesses, and it is not only -- it enables us to adjust our costs on a regular basis and, therefore our price whing we need to, but it gives us tremendous leverage with the supply base, right? Because they know we'll move from material A to material B if we need to.  

The second thing is, about half our costs are not cost of goods sold, or T D.C., and we have a major effort underway to attack all of these costs, and we're learning every day about new ways to take costs out, and in some cases, like in the cases that Juan Pedro mentioned with global business shared services, we're finding ways to improve or sustain the quality and service and get the costs out.  

I guess the third thing I would say is, you know, better and cheaper is more than just a slogan. We really are -- we know women around the world want better value, they want to save some time and effort, because they're all time-pressured, and we know they want more benefits for less pricing. And we know that's the game that we're in. So when we can, when we can create a new category, totally new category, we're going to take the pricing for as long as we can, but when we're in one that's already developed and mature we know what the game is.  

ANN GILLIAN LEFEVER: Very helpful.  

OPERATOR: Andrew McQuilling with UBS has our next question.  

ANDREW MCQUILLING, ANALYST, UBS WARBURG: A.G., I was hoping you could address your fiscal '04 volume outlook by product category with a focus on beauty and health care, how you see the Actonel and health care, obviously the Prilosec you've identified, but how you see beauty growing organically and also the healthcare for fiscal '04.  

A.G. LAFLEY: Andrew, I don't think I can go into each segment right now. I can say in general, okay, in general we expect the health care and beauty care businesses to grow robustly in '04. I will also say that we expect our fabric and home care business to continue to grow robustly and our baby and family care business to grow strong in their industry. So, you know, right now, the only business that's been struggling on the top line is snacks and beverages, and even there, we have been growing our market share modestly in coffee and on Pringles. So we look for continued high growth from health and beauty care. We look for continued strong growth from fabric and home care.  

CLAYT DALEY: Andrew, you can call later in the day and talk to John, but I think you can assume that most of the business yields are going to be pretty much in the guidance range with health care being above  

ANDREW MCQUILLING: Maybe one follow-up. Raw material pressure has to be a big drag in June and really through December. Can you talk about how much of a drag it was in the quarter on a basis points?  

CLAYT DALEY: Actually, it's not that big of a drag. You're right, there are some things that have been up. Obviously, natural gas has been up, some resins have been up, pulp has been up, but a very modest upward trend. But there are a number of other things in the supply chain that have been going in the often sit direction, either due to market forces or due to some of the things A.G. talked about before in terms of our purchasing activities and our ability to help manage market in our favor. So, you know, we're dealing with an upward pressure in raw materials no more than 1% in aggregate.  

ANDREW MCQUILLING: Well, 60 basis points on top of the 100, very nice.  

CLAYT DALEY: Well, yeah, right.  

ANDREW MCQUILLING: Thanks very much.  

A.G. LAFLEY: Thank you.  

OPERATOR: We'll now turn to Carol Wilke with Merrill Lynch.  

CAROL WILKE, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: Thanks. Two quick questions. First, just on the Kay bear pricing you mentioned that there was competitive pricing in the quarter, I think the price was negative that whole segment, similar to the March quarter. As we look into the next fiscal year now that the down counsel is through, et cetera, do you see that lessening as the year goes on?  

CLAYT DALEY: Most of the impact in the baby and family care segment was in family care. Mostly tissue, as opposed to diapers.  

JUAN PEDRO HERNANDEZ: Germany.  

CLAYT DALEY: Yeah, a little bit of activity in Europe in some markets such as Germany on diapers but it's actually been a bigger factor on the tissue brand than it has been on the diaper.  

A.G. LAFLEY: Actually, diaper pricing, Carol, has actually, you know, stabilized and moderated now that we and KC are through our conversions.  

JUAN PEDRO HERNANDEZ: And because of the mix, actually the aggregate prices are higher  

A.G. LAFLEY: We're selling more baby stage of development  

CAROL WILKE: That's great.  

A.G. LAFLEY: The pricing is pulling up.  

CAROL WILKE: Just a bigger picture question, A.G., do you have your eye on any of your other businesses that you think might be ripe for the mid-tier expansion since you've seen quite a bit of success in the categories you've chosen to do that in already?  

A.G. LAFLEY: The two we focused on first were laundry and hair care. And we filled the -- as I said earlier, Carol, we're really happy with the brands we picked up from Clairol and hair care, because they enabled us to quickly fill the hair care portfolio, and -- but now, now what we have to do is we have to fill out the portfolio in the other major markets. There is still room in fabric care. We have a nice full portfolio in the U.S. and Canada, but some of the activity you saw us undertaking in this last six months, the introduction of bold with fabric softener in Japan, the introduction of Mr. Proper laundry detergent in Germany is designed to fill out the laundry portfolio. The introduction of the Tide value brand was designed to begin to fill out the portfolio in laundry. And we have more to do there. Okay? And that's such a big business for us that filling it out is a major growth opportunity.  

The third one is Femcare. Obviously the introduction of Naturella filled out two -- filled out a benefit platform and, you know, non-woven, you know, skin mild line of product but it also filled out a price point as we moved to the mid-tier, and I think as we reported, we added more than 4 share points there and are up over -- you know, close to a 35 share in Mexico.  

In baby care in the U.S., we like our current position. You know, Luvs sort of anchored at the top of private label pricing, and then we build a line of Pampers products from, you know, the baby basic line through the stage of development, but there's a lot of work to do in Femcare and baby care outside of the U.S. and in the other geographies.  

Long-winded way of saying we're going to get our four course done first because they're about half our sales and more than half our profits. As we look at the other businesses, we'll do the household categories first.  

CLAYT DALEY: We've had some good success in oral care, too.  

A.G. LAFLEY: Oral care we have had good success but our oral care success has been in developing markets, because it's a big category in developing markets, and unless you're at the entry price point, you really can't get a meaningful position.  

But, again, Carol, we're trying to be, you know, on the one hand, I think the strategies are pretty well developed, but we don't rush into this until we can make sense of the brand product and price offering, because, you know, we are bound and determined to generate as high or higher margins in developing markets, and we're bound and determined when we fill out the portfolio that we're going to end up with a strong profit mix. That's right. And Juan Pedro is right, and limit cannibalization. One of the things we are very happy about is we made these hair care moves in the U.S. in the face of dove, and we had absolutely no unit volume cannibalization.  

OPERATOR: Due to time constraints we are unable the take any further questions at this time. We will conclude the question-and-answer session for today. Gentlemen, I'll turn the call back to you for closing remarks.  

CLAYT DALEY: Again, thanks to everyone for attending today. As I said at the outset, John, Juan Pedro and I will be available for the balance of the day. We do apologize for the length of the call, but we did have a lot of material to cover. And thank you very much for hanging with us. Thanks a lot.  

OPERATOR: With that we will conclude today's conference. Thank you everyone for your  

[CCBN reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES CCBN ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. Copyright 2003, CCBN, Inc. All Rights Reserved.]  

[Copyright: Content copyright 2003 CCBN, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Electronic format, layout and metadata, copyright 2003 FDCH e-Media, Inc. (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.) ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user's personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon CCBN's or FDCH e-Media's copyright or other proprietary rights or interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CCBN and FDCH e-Media so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CCBN and FDCH e-Media as the originators and copyright holders of such material. This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation.]  

   CO
prgml : The Procter & Gamble Company
   IN
i25 : Chemicals | i258 : Cosmetics/Toiletries | icnp : Consumer Products
   NS
ntra : Transcript | ncat : Content Types
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
FDCH e-Media--Format B
   AN
Document FNDW000020030731dz7v001if
  


 HD
 Q2  2003  Procter  & Gamble Company Earnings Conference Call - Final 
   WC
15,463 words
   PD
28 January 2003
   ET
01:30 PM GMT
   SN
FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
 (c) CCBN and FDCH e-Media. All Rights Reserved. 

   LP
 OPERATOR: Good day, everyone, and welcome to the Procter & Gamble second quarter earnings release conference call. 

 Just a reminder, today's call is being recorded. The rebroadcast, reproduction, or retransmission of this conference call, in whole or in part, is strictly prohibited without the prior written consent of the Procter & Gamble company. 

   TD
 Now at this time for opening remarks and introductions, I would like to turn the call over to the Chief Financial Officer, Mr. Clayt Daley. Please go ahead, sir. 

 CLAYTON DALEY, JR., CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER, PROCTER & GAMBLE COMPANY: Thank you. 

 Good morning and welcome to Procter & Gamble's quarter end conference call. 

 A. G. Lafley and Juan Pedro Hernandez, our Treasurer, join me today. I'll begin the call today with a summary of our second quarter results. Juan Pedro will cover our business results by operating segment. A. G. will follow with some brief comments on our innovation program and I'll wrap up with our expectations for the March quarter and fiscal year. 

 As usual we'll leave time at the end of today's call for your questions and John Goodwin, our IR director, Juan Pedro and I will be available after the call for follow-up questions. 

 Now on to our second quarter results which were above consensus behind record quarterly unit volume for the company and strong operating margin expansion. Diluted net earnings per share were $1.06 on the quarter, including $98 million in after-tax restructuring costs. Core net earnings, which exclude restructuring costs, were $1.13 per share, up 10% versus year-ago and one cent above the consensus estimate. Total sales growth was 6%. Sales growth excluding foreign exchange was up 5%. This is the fourth consecutive quarter where our sales growth has been at or above our long-term target of 4% to 6%. FX positively impacted the top line by 1%, as strength in the euro and British pound more than offset weaknesses in Latin American currencies. 

 Volume increased 8%, including a net 1% contribution from acquisitions and divestitures . The Clairol acquisition added two percentage points to volume, which was offset by the effects of the Jif/Crisco spin merge. Volume, excluding acquisitions and divestitures, was up a strong 7%. This was driven by Health Care, Baby and Family Care, Fabric and Home Care, and significant growth in our greater China and Eastern European businesses. Our total developing market business grew volume double digits during the December quarter, despite the difficulties in Latin America. 

 As discussed in our December analyst meeting, developing markets are a key focus area for P&G's top line growth. Our Chinese and Russian businesses have been particularly strong over the last 12 months. This has occurred behind a strong innovation program tailored to the local consumer, a broadening of our portfolio to reach more pricing tiers, and enhancements in our go-to-market capabilities behind our growing scale. We anticipate that developing markets will continue to be a strong contributor to the company's volume growth in the foreseeable future. 

 Now, pricing reduced top line by 2% versus year-ago. This was driven by three main factors. First, is our promotional investments on our Baby and Family Care businesses in the U.S. In Baby Care, this was in response to our main competitor's decision to implement a pack count reduction in October. We provided additional temporary pricing support on Pampers and Luvs to avoid a price-per-pack disadvantage on some key SKUs during the transition to lower pack counts. As previously announced, we will be moving to lower pack counts effective February 24. 

 On the Family Care business, our increased investment was in response to competitive promotion spending that was beyond levels needed to pass lower pulp prices on to the consumer. Second, the pricing adjustment taken on Crest WhiteStrips following competitive entries into the teeth whitening segment. We enjoyed the first mover advantage in pricing on WhiteStrips for over a year. As anticipated, our main competitor has launched their product into this new segment at a lower price. In response, we have adjusted Crest WhiteStrip pricing to ensure it continues to deliver a superior consumer value. WhiteStrips is continuing to grow volume and sales behind strong category growth despite the competitive entry and lower pricing per unit. 

 Finally, our portfolio extension strategies in our Hair C-are business are resulting in a lower average price per case. We have implemented a number of brand repositionings within our North American portfolio. The Pert and Aussie brands have been repositioned into the mid tier while Renewal 5X has been a line to the value tier. We will now reach a broader range of consumers through distinct product and price offerings at all pricing tiers. 

 Now turning to mix. This had a negative 1% impact on the top line due to the strong performance of our mid tier Fabric Care businesses, volume growth in developing markets, and the integration of Clairol. The anniversary of the Clairol acquisition was on November 16th. As a result, the negative impact from Clairol's integration will end in the December quarter. 

 Now turning from the top line to the bottom line. Core gross margin increased by 140 basis points. As in previous quarters, this improvement was driven by ongoing operational improvements and increased efficiencies behind our new organization structure, lower raw material prices from proprietary interventions through our purchasing activities, continued contributions from restructuring, lower operating costs per unit behind higher volume, and the portfolio shift into higher gross margin, Health and Beauty Care businesses. This is the sixth consecutive quarter where we have delivered year-over-year gross margin improvements in excess of 100 basis points. 

 Core marketing research and administrative costs were down 40 basis points on the quarter. This year-over-year reduction is driven by improvements in overhead productivity and synergies from the Clairol acquisition which had not yet been implemented in the base period. 

 Marketing investment was ahead of year-ago, primarily due to higher advertising spending in Beauty Care. This was behind the Tampax Pearl initiative, Pantene Signs campaign, and the Clairol Color Wonderful campaign. Core operating profits were up 16% with operating margins above 21%. The 180 basis point expansion was above expectations, driven by strong earnings improvements in our Health Care, Baby and Family Care, and Fabric and Home Care businesses. 

 Nonoperating income and expense was down versus year-ago by $126 million as the sizable divestiture of Comet was in the base period. Free cash flow before dividends was nearly $2 billion in the quarter, bringing the total free cash flow generation in the first six months of the fiscal year to $3.7 billion. This is an increase of $1.2 billion from the first half year-ago. 

 The additional cash flow for the quarter was generated almost entirely from earnings, other cash flow items, largely netted versus the September 2002 balances. Versus December year-ago, inventory days decreased by six days. Beauty Care was the main driver of this reduction. This was behind supply chain efficiency improvements from Beauty Care's produce-to-demand initiative and the Clairol integration. 

 Year-to-date free cash flow productivity is 125%, well above our recently revised target of 90%. As a result of our continued strong improvements and free cash flow generation, we significantly increased our share repurchase activities. 7.7 million shares were repurchased during the quarter at a cost of $675 million. 

 The December quarter results are a continuation of our strong sales earnings and cash flow improvements that were delivered throughout calendar 2002. Sales for the four quarters of the calendar year are up on an average of over 6%. The high end of our long-term growth range. 

 Core earnings have improved an average of 15% in the four quarters of 2002. Operating margins have increased an average of 160 basis points, and free cash flow generation is up over 50% versus calendar 2001. This is a great string of high-quality results and it's clear indication that our strategies and new organization structure are continuing to drive the business. 

 Now I'll turn it over to Juan Pedro, who will cover performance of our business segments. 

 JUAN PEDRO HERNANDEZ, VICE CHAIRMAN, TREASURER, PROCTER & GAMBLE COMPANY: Thank you, Clayt. 

 [INAUDIBLE] delivered another strong quarter. Volume grew 8% and sales were $3.1 billion, up 5%. Sales growth trailed volume due to mix impacts from faster growth in developing markets on mid tier brands. Earnings of $514 million, we are up 18% behind volume growth and solid ongoing cost saving results. 

 Consumer volume focus, innovation, and excellent in store execution continue to drive volume and sale growth in quality Home care. On Fabric Care, the volume for the quarter was equal to or higher than prior year levels in all regions. In the U.S., past three month full outlet volume share was up [INAUDIBLE]. Tide was up slightly to 57.5% behind a Clean Breeze initiative. 

 The Gain brand added a full volume share point behind the Island Fresh Scent initiative. Gain's product volume share was 9.2%, and Cheer's share was also up to 5.9%. 

 Our Laundry business in Western Europe continued to grow as well. Western Europe, Laundry share reached 51.5%, the highest level in the last 30 months. Share growth was [INAUDIBLE] based, including Germany, where the post two month Laundry volume shares grew 2.5 percentage points to 18.1%. 

 Home Care is also growing strongly. P&G's past three month [INAUDIBLE] volume share in the U.S. on automatic dishwashing and hand dishwashing are up each 4.1 percentage points. The Dawn brand continues to expand its leadership position in U.S. hand dish with volume shares up 2.6 percentage points to 58.8%. Both Dawn shares and total P&G hand dish carryover shares are all time record levels in the U.S. 

 Shares have also improved from Swiffer after the Wet Jet price adjustment made last year. U.S. outlet volume shares have grown sequentially in past 12, 6, and 3-month periods from 47% to over 58% of the cleaning systems category. And we continue to lead innovation. 

 We are in the midst of launching Swiffer Duster in North America. This is a disposable feather duster designed to easily clean hard-to-reach places. Swiffer Duster is reaching store shelves this week. 

 The Baby and Family Care unit delivered very strong results with unit volume up 6 to 8%. Sales of 2 1/2 billion dollars were up 7%, including 1% pitch point help from FX. Sales trailed volume as static pricing adjustments on diapers and Family Care were partially offset by positive mix benefits from premium tier diaper growth. Earnings of $276 million, we are up 21%, driven by volume growth and on growing cost reductions. 

 In Family Care, both Charmin and Bounty delivered very strong shipments in North America, leading to an all-time record quarter. Past three months, [INAUDIBLE] volume shares for U.S. Bounty were up 1.8 percentage points and U.S. all outlet volume shares for Charmin reached 30.9%, up 1.3 percentage points versus last year. 

 The expansion of Charmin and Bounty into Europe continues to progress well. Bounty's share in the U.K. is up 16% and Charmin's share in Germany is now 5.6%. Also, Charmin in Mexico keeps growing steadily with fast two-month volume share of 14.3%, up 2.8 percentage points. This is good progress but clearly there is still lots of upside. 

 Baby Care continues its strong momentum in North America and Western Europe, driven by Pampers Baby Stages of development lineup. In the U.S. Pampers first three month full outlet increased 4.1 percentage points to 29.1%. 

 In Great Britain, Pampers share is up five share points behind the initiative, while in France share is up over 7 percentage points. And the business improvement is not restricted to Pampers only. 

 Last U.S., past three months full outlet volume share was up 1.9 percentage points, 10.9%, helping to arrive total P&G diaper all outlet share in the U.S. to 40%, an increase of 6 percentage points. 

 Next, Health Care had an excellent quarter with unit volume up 18%. Total Care and Pharmaceuticals continued to be the major growth drivers. Sales were $1.6 billion, an increase of 17%, including a positive 1% foreign exchange help. Sales in the quarter reflect the price adjustments on Crest WhiteStrips taken in November. Earnings were $253 million, an increase of 47%. It was driven mainly by strong volume growth and positive mix, which more than offset higher M&A investments. 

 Total oral care shipments were up over 20%. In the U.S., Crest has improved its past three month U.S. toothcare outlet shares by 1.3 percentage points to 28.8%. Crest toothpaste increased volume share by 2.1 percentage points to 51.2%. Crest SpinBrush gained 3.5 percentage points behind SpinBrush Pro initiative. 

 The Crest WhiteStrips business remains very strong after adjusting prices in response to the new competitive entry. Crest WhiteStrips' volume grew in December quarter about three times year ago levels and 31% sequentially versus the September quarter. Crest will continue to lead consumer meaningful innovation in the home tooth whitening category. 

 We are launching Crest Night Effects, a brush-applied tooth whitener during the March quarter. Night Effects whitens your teeth while you sleep, delivering noticeable whitening in just 14 nights. This will be an effective proposition to consumers at about a $15 price point level. With our top-of-the-line WhiteStrips and our new Night Effects, Crest will offer consumers the two best whitening options in the market. 

 Actonel, our drug for the treatment of [INAUDIBLE] of osteoporosis passed two important growth benchmarks in the December quarter. First, volume share of global [diphosphonate] exceeded 20%. This represents a 35% increase versus year-ago share levels. Second, annual sales for the Actonel brand passed the $500 million mark in calendar year 2002. This is 80% increase versus the prior calendar year. 

 The Pet Health and Nutrition business also had a very good quarter with volume up double digits. Innovation continues to drive our growth. IAMS Daily Dental Care in North America and Western Europe was launched during the December quarter. This product has been shown to reduce tarter buildup in dogs by 53% and cats by 43%. 

 Turning now to Beauty Care, volume was up 14%. Excluding acquisition and divestiture, volume was up 6%, driven by strong growth in Hair Care and Fine Fragrances . Sales were $3 billion, up 10% versus the prior year, including 1% benefit from foreign exchange. 

 Pricing adjustments to reposition the first Aussie and Renewal brands, the mix impacts from Clairol affected growth in emerging markets reconciled the difference between volume and sales growth. Earnings were $507 million, an increase of 15%. Earnings improvement was driven by volume growth and gross margin expansion which funded increased marketing support. 

 The base Hair Care business, excluding Clairol, had a very good quarter with volume up 12% goal. Pantene, Head & Shoulders, Pert and [INAUDIBLE] all posted solid volume gains on a global basis. 

 As you know, November marked the first anniversary of the Clairol acquisition. We continue to be very pleased with this transaction. The transition has been very smooth and the synergies have tracked with our expectations. The Clairol team has accomplished a lot in just one year. They have consolidated and integrated resources in every area of the business: research and development, materials procurement, sales, manufacturing, information systems. From the brands growth standpoint, the results have been good, but we know that we can do better. 

 We have expanded Herbal Essences into nine new countries and we are reapplying the successful U.S. marketing program around the globe. Global Herbal Essences shipments in the December quarter were up 20% versus last year. 

 Our progress on hair colorants, however, has been slower. Full outlet volume shares have been improving gradually on the past twelve, six, and three-month basis but shares have been lower than previous year. 

 As you know, we expanded our new Color Wonderful marketing campaign in the U.S. last quarter and we will be launching our first significant hair color innovation the Nice & Easy brand this quarter. This initiative utilizes copper-blocker technology to deliver richer, deeper color. This technology was originally developed in our Fabric Care business. 

 In addition, there is a strong innovation pipeline that you will are hearing more about in the coming months. Continuing, with other Beauty Care categories, the Fine Fragrance business had an outstanding quarter with volumes up over 30%. 

 Hugo Boss continues to lead the growth behind the New Boss In Motion, [INAUDIBLE] fragrances. 

 Olay also had a good quarter with worldwide volumes for the skin care and personal cleaning segments, both up double digits. Olay Intensive Restoration Treatment has helped build full outlet volume share in the U.S., facial moisturization by 4.3 percentage points to 33.2%. 

 While finally, on Feminine Care, a very brief update on Tampax Pearl to confirm that it continues to go well. U.S. past three month full outlet volume share for the Tampax brand was up 4.4 percentage points while [INAUDIBLE] a percent improvement driven by the Pearl initiative. Pearl also has already achieved the past 10% share in just four months. 

 Last, in Snacks and Beverages, quarterly volume was down 1% while sales were up 1% to $881 million, including a positive 2% foreign exchange impact. Earnings were strong at $110 million, up 15% behind operating efficiencies and restructuring savings. 

 Pringles posted mixed results in the quarter. Volume grew a strong 8% in the U.S., driven by excellent execution of the Snack Packs initiative, an improve in the store from our biggest customers. Pringles volume was also up in Western Europe behind improved customer fundamentals. However, Pringles volume was off sharply in developing markets. 

 In the Beverage segment, volume was down overall due to weak juice results, more than offsetting robust growth in coffee. Folgers had a strong quarter with double-digit volume gains behind strong inner store support and the launch of Folgers Flavors. The Flavors introduction has gone very well and is exceeding our going-in expectations. 

 And that concludes the business unit review and now I will turn the call over to A. G. 

 ALAN LAFLEY, CHAIRMAN, PRESIDENT, CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER, PROCTER & GAMBLE COMPANY: Thank you, Juan Pedro. 

 This was another strong quarter for P&G. The breadth and strength for business improvement is clear evidence our strategic choices and systemic interventions are delivering the consistent, predictable, reliable results we've been striving for. 

 All four core categories increased volume year over year, as did 13 of 14 leading brands. All 16 of our biggest countries and 9 out of 10 top customers. All five global business units delivered double-digit operating income growth. We shipped unit volume records for our full year in calendar 2002, for a quarter in October, December and for a month in December, but we still have a number of areas for improvement and opportunities to take fuller advantage of. 

 The focus on core businesses and core capabilities and competentcies and the interventions we are making to leverage P&G's strengths more systematically are the keys to sustained higher growth. 

 Today I want to talk a bit about one of P&G's core strengths, innovation. Innovation is our lifeblood. We are committed to innovation leadership. According to IRI, Pacesetters, P&G has introduced the number one U.S. nonfoods innovation in six of the last seven years. On average, P&G places four new brands in products in the top 10 new innovations every year. 

 In the most recent year, Crest WhiteStrips, Crest SpinBrush, Olay Total Effects, and ThermaCare Heat Wraps. 

 Despite this track record, we're always trying to find ways to generate more value from our innovative capability. We are trying to improve every stage of the innovation process: discovery, development, and commercialization. We have a clear strategy to increase discovery by becoming a much more interconnected company. 

 We leverage technical capabilities and best practices across business units and across geographies. For example, Olay Daily Facials, integrated technologies from Beauty Care, Fabric Care, Family Care, and Snacks. We are capturing more discovery from external sources. We used internet-based systems to enable novel connections. We reapplied technology developed for other uses. We leverage external partners' special knowledge and significant R&D investments. 

 The breakthrough technology in Quick-Dissolving Tide came from a close collaboration with key supplier. This connect-and-develop approach is multiplying P&G's core R&D capability. 

 We are continuing to make improvements in our innovation development approaches. We're in an industry where innovation is challenging and risky. About 80% of new product introductions fail to remain in retail distribution after only one year, and many more never achieve their anticipated financial success. 

 Today P&G's innovation commercialization success rate is well above industry average and we are taking action to improve even further. We've implemented disciplined initiative management processes, the latest available technologies, and connect-and-develop capabilities to learn faster at lower cost, to make better risk decisions, and to enhance the overall attractiveness of initiatives for consumers and customers. We're using the internet for fast iterative involvement with consumers. On P&G's internal global intranet, we offer proven innovation methods and easy-to-use tools to facilitate fast cycle learning. We are significantly expanding capabilities in computational modeling and computer aided engineering so we can do an increasing product and process design through virtual simulation. 

 Finally, we've established an initiatives success community of excellence that allows us to capture and reapply initiative learning. This worldwide community makes experts available to initiative teams to improve the odds of commercial success and to maximize total value creation. 

 These systemic improvements in innovation capability are already paying off. Just in the past three years, P&G innovations have created new categories, or major new segments that are generating $1.5 to $2 billion in retail sales, new retail sales in the U.S. alone. Within these new categories and segments, P&G brands like Swiffer, Crest WhiteStrips, and Olay Daily Facials, to name just a few, are sustaining market shares generally above 50% of the new category or segment. Meaningful innovation that addresses unmet consumer needs is one key success factor. 

 Another is improving our ability to commercialize innovation successfully in the marketplace. We began by challenging current mindsets and prevailing practices. 

 Many in our industry believe a new innovation will achieve its peak volume potential in year one. This belief has led to the practice of concentrating new brand and product launch activity and investment in the first 12 or even sometimes the first six months. Add in financial pressure for quick payback, retailer pressure for instant sales increases, and sales organization pressure to move on to the next initiative and our industry had created a self-fulfilling prophecy. 

 We began to question and to challenge this "Launch them and leave them" approach. Instead we've consciously embarked on a longer term approach to initiative commercialization that we call "Launch, grow, and leverage," in a world where the consumer is busier, media more fragmented, and there are many more retail choices, it takes more time to generate awareness and quality trial. 

 Instead of looking at six or twelve month introductory plans, we are asking for three-year plans. We do believe this change and approach is paying off. On Actonel, on Crest, particularly the whitening products, on Olay Daily Facials, on Hugo Boss fine fragrances, on Swiffer, to name just a few. 

 In all these cases we are focusing on big ideas, on major unmet consumer needs and on big edge innovation. In all the cases we designed marketing and sales plans for at least three full years of trial growth. We work with customers closely, not only to provide strong up-front support but also to sustain support as long as the trial rate continues to grow. 

 We ask for retailers' patience, especially where a consumer habit change is required. Big edge innovation often necessitates habit change. We adjust plans quickly over time as the marketplace and competitive environment change. We monitor the consumer value equation and make sure we continue to offer pricing and performance that represents better value. 

 We are still learning this is a journey. We are learning how to target prime prospects better, learning about a wide range of trial stimulation alternatives, learning how and where to price to communicate better value. Perhaps most importantly, we are learning how to put together an innovation program, a series of innovative product innovations and successful executions that can create a new category or segment and build a major new brand or a major extension of an existing brand. 

 Now I'll turn it back to Clayt. 

 CLAYTON DALEY, JR.: Thanks, A. G.. 

 We'll now conclude with the guidance. First, the March quarter. 

 We expect volume to be up 6% to 8%. This is above our target range, despite an anticipated 1% negative impact due to the Jif / Crisco spin merge. The growth should be driven by continued strength in Health Care, Beauty Care, Fabric and Home Care. Volume growth is expected to remain ahead of sales growth for the quarter due to strength in developing markets, a number of mid-tier expansions and many of the same factors that influence the December quarter. 

 We expect sales, excluding foreign exchange, to be up in the mid single digits versus year-ago. At current rates, foreign exchange should positively impact the top line by about 2% so total sales growth could reach high single digits. We expect gross margin expansion in the quarter to be somewhat lower than delivered in recent quarters due to the very strong base period, where gross margin increased year-over-year by over 300 basis points. 

 Operating margins should be up about 50 basis points. This should come from a combination of gross margin and MR&A improvements as lower overhead spending is expected to more than offset higher year over year advertising investments. The higher marketing spending is expected to come primarily in Beauty Care behind Tampax Pearl, a string of Hair Care initiatives, and all regenerates, Olay's new high-end anti-aging skin care initiative, incorporating break-through skin care regeneration technology. 

 Nonoperating income and interest expense should be about in line with year-ago levels. Core earnings per share growth should be up 11% to 13% despite tough base period comparisons. This is toward the upper end of the current consensus range and reflects P&G's strong volume growth and continued cost reduction activities. 

 Turning to fiscal year guidance. On the top line, we expect sales growth ex-FX to be at the top end of our 4% to 6% target range. At current rates, foreign exchange is expected to have about a 1% positive impact on sales. Core earnings per share is expected to be in the 12% to 13% range for the full fiscal year. We expect to achieve double-digit core earnings growth in the second half of the fiscal year despite the negative impact of the Jif/Crisco spin merge and tougher base period comps. 

 Now, some investors have expressed concern about P&G's ability to deliver our long-term growth objectives once we come up against stronger base comparisons and no longer have the benefit of our restructuring program. Hopefully when you look at the combination of the results from the December quarter, our guidance for the March quarter and fiscal year, and the fact that we expect to deliver our long-term growth goals in fiscal 2003 without separately reporting restructuring charges, then all these factors should help provide assurance that our progress is sustainable. 

 The December quarter was another high-quality quarter for P&G. We achieved our target bottom line growth rate of double digits, despite the large one-time divestiture gain in the base period. 

 Our top line momentum is continuing, driven by a combination of sharp consumer value propositions, strong branding, and consumer relevant innovation. Our improved global cost and capital structure are also unlocking new opportunities for expansion of mid-tier products in developed markets and growth in key developing markets. 

 Importantly, our cash flow generation continues to strengthen behind clear accountability for cash in our new organization structure and our focus on shareholder value measures. The strategies and process innovations and interventions that we have made and are continuing to make are enhancing our ability to deliver more predictable and consistent growth even in tough economic times. 

 Now that continues the business comments for the call. 

 As you know, this discussion does include a number of forward-looking statements. If you will refer to our most recent 10K and 8Q reports, you will see a discussion of factors that could cause the company's actual results to differ materially from these projections. 

 Now at this point, A. G., Juan Pedro, and I will be happy to take your questions. 

 OPERATOR: Thank you, sir. 

 The question-and-answer session will be conducted electronically today. If you would like to ask a question, please signal us by pressing star, 1 on your telephone keypad. 

 In fairness to all participants and due to time constraints, please remember to limit yourself to one question today. And again, that's star, 1 to ask a question. 

 We'll take our first question today from Andrew McQuillen with UBS Paine Webber. 

 ANDREW MCQUILLEN (ph), UBS PAINE WEBBER: Thanks very much and congratulations on a nice quarter. 

 CLAYTON DALEY, JR.: Thanks, Andrew. 

 ANDREW MCQUILLEN (ph): I have a two parter. I guess the first is, uh, A. G., you talked to this move to three-year planning and new product development. Can you talk about when P&G implemented this and then what divisions it's shown the most promise early on? 

 And I guess the second-parter is on Latin America, the type of drag that the region is causing for volume in sales and how long you think it's going to continue. 

 ALAN LAFLEY: Okay. 

 Andrew, on the first one, the program began in Fabric and Home Care and Health and Beauty Care, and I think it's clearly showing up in our Laundry and Dish care programs, and I think it's also clearly showing up in our Hair Care, Skin Care, and Oral Care programs. And, you know, now we've talked about it a lot. We meet every quarter and we share learnings and drive them for reapplication and I think it's now spreading across the rest of the businesses. 

 The only -- the other important thing I would say is, this approach has been critically important where we have new-to the world technology where a consumer habit change is required to appreciate the benefit and the consumer value. And we're frankly creating either a major new segment in an existing category or an entirely new category like home cleaning systems, for example. 

 Regarding the Latin America situation, I mean, I don't think it's any secret. It's tough. Our folks in Latin America have done a fantastic job conserving cash, driving out costs, and really doing everything possible to keep the business going, and frankly we're growing share and we're even growing unit volume modestly in several of the markets. 

 So despite all the problems, we're reasonably pleased with the business progress down there. You know, as for how long it's going to last, you know, frankly that's anybody's guess, you know. We hoped that, you know, Argentina would be coming out of some of its political issues by now. We don't know how long, you know. Your guess is as good as mine on how long the crisis in Venezuela is going to continue. 

 We're trying to stay very focused on Mexico and Brazil because they are big markets. In Mexico we're very well established and we're very focused on building our market shares across all of our categories there. And Brazil, even though it's been, you know, a long and tough road for us, we've had a -- we had a very good quarter in Brazil and despite the political change and some of the economic issues, we built our unit volumes pretty strongly down there. 

 So, I guess, kind of a long-winded way of saying we're going to stick to our strategies, you know, we're going to stick to the basics. We've been through this before and the Middle East and Russia, throughout Asia in the late Nineties. So we pretty much know what we have to do. And in these situations, we try to dramatically improve our cost structure and we try to build market share so when we come out the other end and we conserve cash. 

 CLAYTON DALEY, JR.: Preserving cash is important. I think it's particularly gratifying that we're making our numbers on the top and bottom line in our business units despite these issues in Latin America. 

 ANDREW MCQUILLEN (ph): Terrific. Thanks very much. 

 OPERATOR: We'll take our next question from Amy Chasen with Goldman Sachs. 

 AMY CHASEN (ph), GOLDMAN SACHS: Hi. 

 I want to start with the developing markets that you touched on. Can you give us some idea of, you know, what your biggest -- what the biggest developing markets are for you and also if you kind of lump them altogether, some idea of how the margins play out and whether you are in an investment mode there and the margins are declining or whether you are actually able to grow margins in those markets as well. 

 CLAYTON DALEY, JR.: I'll answer the last part of your question first and then I think A. G. will comment a little bit on the markets. 

 We are not giving up margin in developing markets. In fact, our margins' average lead across the developing markets are more or less comparable to the company average. So we are -- you know, we are building the developing market business at a very rapid rate, yet maintaining those margins. Now, A. G. will talk about that. 

 ALAN LAFLEY: Okay. 

 Amy, our biggest developing markets are Mexico, China, Philippines, Russia Federation, Middle East, Saudi, and Turkey. You know, those are big markets for us. 

 Our absolutely highest growth markets the past year, not just the past quarter, have been China and the Russia Federation. We're just doing -- I mean, both of those business teams are doing a fantastic job. 

 I don't think it's any secret that the China economy continues to be one of the strongest in the world, and we are building share in big established businesses like Hair Care, Laundry, Oral Care, and we are entering new businesses like Baby Care in China. The strength in the Russian Federation has been across the board. 

 I mentioned earlier, we're looking at the economic slowdown in Latin America as an opportunity to strengthen our position in Mexico. We have invested in the Charmin business in Mexico. 

 We have invested in the Fem Care business behind Naturalla which has sent us to share leadership in the Fem category. So, you know, we are selectively, very selectively investing but most of the Russian Federation and China growth is growth behind established plans. So as we improve the top line growth, we're also turning in very good bottom line results. 

 AMY CHASEN (ph): That's great. 

 Can you, just as a follow-up to that, what are you doing to ensure that, you know, these developing markets are great when they're great and yet, you know, if there is some sort of macro economic problem, or devaluation, they can obviously be problematic. What are you doing to ensure that if there were some sort of blow-up in one of those regions that, you know, you wouldn't be in a position to have to guide down numbers? 

 CLAYTON DALEY, JR.: I think the most critical factor here is balance. 

 That we -- our business in Asia, our business in Latin America, our business in eastern Europe are all about the same size and none of these countries represent more than about 3% of our sales. I think we've got, you know, Mexico is up there at about 3%, China's obviously growing rapidly, but the fact is we just don't have all the eggs in one basket, and that's the critical factor. 

 The other thing we've tried to do in the developing markets is limit the amount of cash that we put down in factories, looking for more contract manufacturing solutions and then obviously just doing the things you always do about minimizing your working capital exposure and some of those things that can lead to problems if one of these places blows up. 

 ALAN LAFLEY: Amy, we've had a couple of, you know, we hope break-throughs, low capital or no-capital approaches and lower cost activity systems. We're constructing a laundry manufacturing plant in Turkey right now that will, when it's done, cost about half of what our lowest cost laundry manufacturing plant previously cost. As Clayt said, you know, we're selectively contract manufacturing with partners in central and eastern Europe and in China, and in several of the categories, and this has been led by Laundry, we're developing much lower cost activity systems. So we work real hard with our supply base, we work real hard on the logistics and distribution, and we try to get ourselves in a position where we localize as much as we possibly can and we get the cost down as far as we can. 

 AMY CHASEN (ph): That's great. 

 Just one last quick thing which is, in your diaper business, can you just tell us how much pricing was down? I think looking at the press release, it looks like it wasn't down any more than 1% or 2%; is that correct? 

 CLAYTON DALEY, JR.: Well, on a global basis we are showing on Baby and Family Care total of 4%. 

 AMY CHASEN (ph): Pricing down 4? 

 CLAYTON DALEY, JR.: Yes. 

 AMY CHASEN (ph): Can you talk about just diapers in the U.S. and North America? 

 CLAYTON DALEY, JR.: We're not going to -- we're not going to break it out by the subsegments of Baby versus Family. So they were about comparable. 

 ALAN LAFLEY: Amy, if you step back and look at North America Baby Care, it's, again, a very balanced approach. 

 Remember on our lineup of premiums and baby stage of development diapers, including the pull-ons, we're actually commanding higher prices and price premiums , and then that is balanced by the need to respond to, you know, our key competitors' move to down count and down price. 

 The other thing I would say is if you look at pricing in the form of couponing or pricing in the form of trade merchandising, I think you will find that we are couponing much less than our lead competitor is and we are -- our trade incentives are much lower. 

 CLAYTON DALEY, JR.: Let me make one other point here because this is important. Obviously these numbers are global numbers. They are not just U.S. numbers. So this is the global Baby and Family Care business. 

 The other thing is while pricing is down 4%, mix is plus 2, okay? So, you know, we are counting things like the growth in baby stages of development, which is a premium priced item as a mixed positive as opposed to a price positive. 

 So I think you really maybe have to think about pricing and mix together on baby and family and then it would be a net of 2. 

 AMY CHASEN (ph): Great. That's what I wanted to know. Thank you. 

 OPERATOR: We'll go next to Carol Wilkie with Merrill Lynch. 

 CAROL WILKIE, MERRILL LYNCH: I had a question on the mid care expansion of some of your brands. If you look at your whole portfolio and your global business, A. G., how far along would you say you guys are in terms of the mid tier expansion into the different countries and different categories do you see an opportunity? 

 ALAN LAFLEY: Okay. 

 Carol, this is a tough one because we're at various stages in various categories in various regions but let me take a shot at a couple of big categories where -- you know, that have the biggest impact. 

 In Hair Care, we're now done. We've executed in the U.S. And as we described, we now have brands positioned in the middle of the market, we have [Bruno 5x] and Daily Defense positioned in the value segment, and even with the growth that we got in those repositionings, we still have Pantene growing 14%, Herbal Essences is growing 24%, and Head & Shoulders growing 7% in the quarter. So it has been largely net extra for us. 

 We've also worked hard on our structural costs in Hair Care, and remember, we were able to just plug the Clairol brands into an existing system. So it was highly synergistic. So we're making good margins on all of this business. In fact, we're improving, you know, our overall margin performance in Hair Care. 

 So in North America, we're in pretty good shape, and that is sort of -- you know, that's basically the model that we're now reapplying in other parts of the world, but that's going to take us two to three years because we have to qualify the products and we have to qualify the brands and the brand positionings and benefit positionings in each of the major regions. 

 Laundry is the other big business that's fairly far along. You know, we have -- we have a portfolio of brands that we offer in North America again. Gain has been positioned in the middle of the market and has been growing strongly. Era has been positioned in the middle of the market and Cheer has been positioned in the middle of the market and we've got growth on Cheer since we've done that. 

 At the same time Tide still plugs along and grows, at, I think it was 6% in the last period. For a long time, Luvs has been, you know, our middle-of-the-market brand in baby care. So we are working on the four core categories first. We're guided by, you know, three things. 

 One is, what's right for the total shareholder return of the category, or the industry; two, what's right for the consumer, you know, because we have been leaving out some consumers because our brands and products were not affordable, and when you aspire to the kinds of market shares that we aspire to, you know, in the end we would like to have 50 and 60 market shares and in core businesses you have to have products and brands that are affordable by the middle-of-the-market and people entering the market; and then the third issue is we want to be able to offer our customers differentiated portfolios of brands and products so they fit with their strategies, and that's why we're doing this. 

 I guess the last thing I would say is it's really important for us to find the low and no-capital solutions and the lower cost activity systems to enable this portfolio expansion in developing markets, and we're not getting the cart before the horse, you know. We're moving when we can make good business and good financial sense, you know, out of the whole thing. 

 CAROL WILKIE: Can I just ask one quick follow-up question? When you talked about the outlook for the second half of the year versus what you thought coming into the year, which of the businesses are trending better than you had expected? 

 CLAYTON DALEY, JR.: I think Health Care and probably Baby and Family Care. 

 ALAN LAFLEY: And Fabric and Home Care. 

 CLAYTON DALEY, JR.: And Fabric and Home Care, but their expectations were pretty good from the beginning. 

 CAROL WILKIE: Thanks very much. 

 CLAYTON DALEY, JR.: Yeah. 

 OPERATOR: We'll now turn to Bill Steele with Banc of America. 

 BILL STEELE, BANC OF AMERICA: Thanks. 

 My question to do with the margins by business segment. You guys have obviously done a very good job across the board in terms of margins but the corporate expense line item is kind of surging as well. Has there been some sort of reclassification? 

 CLAYTON DALEY, JR.: Yes. 

 BILL STEELE: What have you added into that line item? 

 CLAYTON DALEY, JR.: Jif and Crisco profits have been dropped into corporate for the prior year. So we're seeing the negative comparison there of Jif/Crisco as showing up in a corporate line. 

 BILL STEELE: Okay. Thanks. And then the second real quick question has to do with the other income line item of about $74 million. Was there any sort of asset sale, brand divestiture in the quarter? 

 CLAYTON DALEY, JR.: Nothing of any significance, Bill. 

 BILL STEELE: So that was all interest income basically? 

 CLAYTON DALEY, JR.: More or less. 

 BILL STEELE: More or less? Okay. 

 CLAYTON DALEY, JR.: Or income that comes in that's classified as nonoperating. 

 BILL STEELE: Which would be what? 

 CLAYTON DALEY, JR.: Well, you know, there are some times some settlements or various transactions that might get cleared that would end up in other income, but it's -- go ahead, Juan. 

 JUAN PEDRO HERNANDEZ: No. We will get back to you exactly on this one. It is small and it is not material. I will get back to you on that. 

 BILL STEELE: Okay. 

 CLAYTON DALEY, JR.: But it's primarily interest income, Bill, you're right. 

 BILL STEELE: That's perfect. Okay. Thank you. 

 OPERATOR: Next up is Ann Gillen with Lehman Brothers. 

 ANN GILLEN, LEHMAN BROTHERS: Good morning, everyone. 

 A. G., I wondered if you could just give us a bit more of an update on the factors driving the pricing line? 

 Just, when you initiated some of the price reductions to narrow your price gap, you identified a series of places in the portfolio where it had gotten too wide. We've now more than anniversaried that and I know it's an ongoing exercise but just from some of the things that you've said in the call, I'm wondering if you could kind of rerank order for us the current influences on the pricing line, and I guess I would throw out your relative price gap, your shift to the mid-tier strategy, the competitive environment, the consumers' appetite for deals right now, and the customer shelf environment. 

 ALAN LAFLEY: Okay. 

 I think we have to begin with our goal and our strategy. Virtually every brand we sell we sell at parity or premium pricing for the best relevant competitor. 

 So again without going into the all the details for each brand, you know, virtually all of our billion dollar brands are sold at premiums, and sometimes significant premiums to the best competitor. And I think that's important because that's a philosophy and that's a strategy at P&G, and we believe if we create and build stronger brands and if we lead innovation with products and solutions that really make lives better and offer meaningful, visible benefits, that we can command premium prices. 

 The second thing that I would say is virtually all of our innovation goes out premium priced. I mean, if you go back and look at, you know, what we did on Swiffer and Febreze, what we did on the Olay Total Effects and Daily Facials lines, what we did in oral care, you know, with WhiteStrips, what we did with Tampax Pearl, you know, all of our innovation goes out at a premium price and frankly it's difficult before you get in the market to know precisely what the right price is to attract the level of trial that you want to attract from the target audience. So that's really, that's a systemic thing and the capability we're still working on. 

 The third thing I think you have to remember is, I can't think of an instance where we've led the pricing down. It's a competitive response to our innovation. They will come in with the innovation counter and they almost inevitably bring the price down, and many times we don't match. We may move it down. 

 I mean, in the case of Simply White, they came in at around a $15, $12 to $15 price point net. We dropped our price point down below $30, okay? We still are commanding almost two times, you know, the pricing because we think we have a better whitening treatment and consumers are still voting for it. That's why the unit volume and sales growth is still there for both products, I might add. So that's -- I think it's important to understand the philosophy and the strategy. 

 The second thing I will say, and you alluded to this, and it is important: some of the businesses that were in, some of the household businesses are much more price sensitive. In other words, a consumer value is much more associated with the price, either the absolute price or the relative price. 

 This is the case obviously in Family Care, in tissue/towels this has always been the case and some of the detergent products. So in those cases our strategy is still the same. It's just the premiums we take are smaller. I mean Bounty we sell for around, we know if we're around 8, 9, 10% above the best relevant competitor, Bounty's share will grow. We know if we get up to 15% or to 20%, we've got a consumer issue. 

 But in all cases here, we're driving a balanced approach. We're watching our TSR, we're growing our profit and our margins and our shares, at the same time we're dialing the pricing right. And even on a brand like Bounty -- I don't want to make this too complex -- or like Charmin, we offer a portfolio of products. Some are clearly value-added and premium priced and others are the more basic, white, everyday role and that one has to be a little bit sharper on the price point. 

 The third phenomenon which you alluded to is a real one, and that is in economies that are struggling and with retailers working hard to generate same-store sales increases and to bring traffic into their stores, they do select some of our categories as traffic builders and traffic drivers. And again our strategy is to get our fair share of that activity but we certainly don't drive discounting, we don't want them to discount. 

 In fact, we have data on a number of our brands that if you just display our brands without reducing the price, you can build traffic. And we try to work that with the retailers. The next issue is the portfolio adjustment, and there are two pieces of this which we talked at the December meeting, and we'll have to work with you-all to make sure we're crystal clear about this. There is, in the developed world, Western Europe, Japan, and North America, there is a desire to fine-tune our portfolio so we are at the -- we have an offering at the entry price point and we are well represented in the middle of the market because of the shares that we aspire to. 

 Again, we're very TSR conscious, we're trying to balance the market share performance, the unit volume performance, the sales performance, and the margin and profit performance, and frankly we're getting great utilization out of assets and that's enabling us to build margins at the same time we build share. And that is -- again that for the most part is a fine-tuning. 

 Hair Care I described, Laundry is virtually done. We're not only growing the mid-tier but we're also growing the premium brands and the premium tier. 

 The bigger effort, which will be a decade-long effort is the effort in developing markets, and without going into all the details, again as we talked in December, there are some countries where we are still really only offering products and brands that 5 or 10 or 15% of the population can afford on a regular basis. 

 So we're working to extend the reach and affordability and useability of our brands and products and that's why we're working so hard on our capital cost base, our activity system cost base, and frankly a novel product formulation. 

 I think we talked about the Vietnam diaper line and the Vietnam test we have going where we bought a very low cost, off-the-line converter. We made some simple modifications and we're selling a baby diaper for 15 cents or less and we're simulating a creation of a market in a relatively poor country like Vietnam. 

 But if you step way back, way back, there are -- you know, we're still focused on creating and building brands, we're still focused on innovation at all price points, and we're still focused on leveraging our scale and, of course, you know, running a strategy and, you know, action plans that build our total TSR. So, you know, you asked -- if the question is, you know, when will the portfolio adjustments be over? It's difficult to predict. We don't have any brands -- we don't have many brands that are out of whack on an everyday on-the-shelf pricing basis. We got those fixed in the first year and a half or two. So that work's over. But there are ongoing. 

 You know, there are always ongoing external marketplace changes and economic pressures and competitive pressures that have us evaluating and reevaluating what the right pricing is to deliver value. 

 I will say one thing in closing. It's quite clear to me that if you bring innovation, you can price for it. In other words, all this stuff that's out there about, there's no pricing power left in our businesses I think is just dead wrong. I mean, we have -- we've created at least $1.5 billion to $2 billion worth of categories in new segments in the U.S. alone and all of it was premium priced. We created an $800 million cleaning system business. There are now $600 million worth of electric toothbrushes sold over $200 million below $10 a toothbrush. There is now a $200 million plus whitening treatment business at home, and that will double, I'm sure. 

 So you can create it if you are innovative and if you are really close to the consumer and what you create makes a meaningful difference, and at that price represents real value. 

 ANN GILLEN: Thanks. That was helpful. Just a clarification. 

 When you did talk about the portfolio adjustments in December, it sounded more to me like it was a mix effect rather than a price effect, and I guess in today's comments, you've alluded to some pricing effects, particularly with respect to the developed world adjustments. 

 CLAYTON DALEY, JR.: I think the pricing effects that we've talked about today are a little bit just, you know, some specific issues that we believe are short-term in nature that affect things like diapers and the like, and those are the ones that, you know, we're talking about today. 

 ANN GILLEN: Okay. So generally in terms of the portfolio adjustment, more mix than price? 

 CLAYTON DALEY, JR.: Yes, longer term. 

 ANN GILLEN: Okay. 

 CLAYTON DALEY, JR.: The other thing, too, I think it's helpful to comment here is, you know, we are achieving our long-term sales targets. We're exceeding our long-term volume growth targets. So, you know, we're not in a situation here where we're explaining the fact that we're not making the sales numbers. We're just, in a short-term here, we're making the sales numbers with a little bit more volume. I'm not sure that's all bad. 

 ANN GILLEN: No, I -- it's definitely sort of a different ranking of influences on pricing relative to 18 months ago and thanks for the detailed explanation, A. G.. 

 ALAN LAFLEY: Okay. 

 OPERATOR: We'll go now to Wendy Nicholson with Salomon Smith Barney. 

 WENDY NICHOLSON, SALOMON SMITH BARNEY: Hi. Good morning. 

 Two questions, the first one on snacks and beverages. I know it's a small piece of the business but it's sort of such a nasty drag on the top line. 

 I'm just wondering kind of what's going on and what are your hopes in terms of restoring growth to that business? I know you mentioned that emerging markets were a drag for the Pringles business but I thought snacks and beverages was actually one of the more domestic businesses you have. So you could address that first. 

 And then, A. G., going back to your comments about sort of the launch, grow, leverage program, I thought it was really interesting but could you explain in our forecasting or budgeting process for your new innovations, how do you sort of forecast what the competitive responses are going to be? Because it strikes me that the time frame in terms of new product launch activity has just gotten so compressed where you guys come out with something great but your competitors are out there in six or nine months. 

 I would imagine it's kind of hard to anticipate, you know, what the pricing and what the competitive dynamic is going to be in terms of that program. So the fact that you take a longer term approach now sort of surprises me, I guess. 

 ALAN LAFLEY: Okay. First, snacks and beverages. You are right. It is mostly a North America business. 

 We're actually -- I guess if you step back and look at the whole sector, I'm actually very pleased with the performance they have delivered on the bottom line. We were running a food and beverage, a snacks and beverage business that was a drag on company profitability and margins, and under Jorge Montoya's leadership, we've gotten that business structured right, organized right, and we've got the cost system to the point where we can deliver the kind of margins that we have to deliver. 

 And frankly that was the primary focus in the last couple of years was to get the cost structure right. And we still have some opportunity there. I'm not saying the work's done, and Jorge' knows that, but I am pleased with the work they have done there. 

 The second thing I would say is we had a couple of real good years on coffee a couple of years ago. We had stalled, and I was really pleased to see the coffee business pick up, and we had a very good quarter on coffee and now, of course, we want to sustain it. And the key to coffee frankly is there hasn't been enough innovation, and you are going to see more innovation from us in the year ahead. 

 We have the leading market share. It's -- you know, we're talking about a 35 to 40 share on Folgers alone, and it's an important business for us because it behaves like a good laundry or personal care business in terms of its TSR dynamics. So we like it as long as it's in a strong leadership position. 

 Pringles again has been an issue of priority. I mean, we were struggling mightily. We took a wrong turn of our own making mostly. Two and a half years ago we got out of whack on our sizing and our pricing. We fixed that, and we've actually grown our U.S. -- our North America business and our U.S. business about 8% in the last quarter, which is pretty good, and our market share has been growing period to period the last several periods on Pringles. 

 Again, here we focused on fixing the biggest markets first. So we focused on the U.S., we focused on Western Europe, and we focused on Japan, and that focus seems to be paying off. Frankly we don't have the cost structure activity system or, you know, installed MDO system to drive the developing markets right now. So we're hunkering down there and we're focusing on the developing markets. 

 The last thing I would say is, you know, our team has been struggling mightily in juice to try to resuscitate the Sunny Delight brand. I think they have made some improvements on the brand. We have some innovation coming to market but it's just a really tough one for us and, you know, we're working on it. 

 On the question of innovation on systems, I want to make sure that you understand that this isn't about slow and long. It's about, we're trying to improve our flexibility, our speed, our response time, but we're looking at least a three-year trial build horizon, and we have more stick-to-it-ivness, and we try to build that into our commercialization plans and into our budgeting plans. 

 So let me think of a couple of examples. 

 CLAYTON DALEY, JR.: Well, that's even more important because there will be competitive entries, to have an introductory program that spans more than one year. 

 ALAN LAFLEY: I mean, if I could just use two examples. We didn't have Swiffer shipping back in the summer of whenever it was, '99 or 2000, I can't remember now, when we first introduced home cleaning systems. I mean, we were out a matter of weeks and competition was there because S. C. Johnson licensed the Cal line out of Japan. So if you look at what's happened, and then Clorox entered and, you know, dropped the price in half basically on the Wet Mop, and it's sort of been back and forth, but frankly it's been great for the consumer, it's been great for the retailer and I would argue great for the manufacturer, manufacturers, because we've created this bigger than $800 million new business. We have really stayed the course. 

 We keep improving our dry sheet products, we keep improving our Wet Jet product and we just introduced our Duster product. So we think this one's going to be a win all the way around, a win for the consumer, a win for customers, a win for manufacturers, and we'll be very surprised if this isn't a multibillion-dollar new segment. 

 And again I believe the companies that can stay with the innovation, stay with the consumer, and that are flexible and in it for the longer term are going to emerge relatively more successful. 

 WENDY NICHOLSON: Can I ask you a quick question on the WhiteStrips, though? For example, I look at the WhiteStrips category and you guys did such a great job being first to market and launching such a successful new product but then you have to bring the price down and now Night Effects is going to be priced even below where WhiteStrips are now. 

 So I wonder, gosh, you know, is the game over in the whitening category? Because I would imagine Night Effects is going to bring down your margin in that business because of its lower selling price, but is that a wrong assumption? 

 ALAN LAFLEY: We have great margins in those businesses, and we knew the pricing would come down. We just didn't know where it would come down, okay? On WhiteStrips. On the liquid-based products, the liquid technology-based products, we're both priced at price points that are a very good value for consumers and frankly a very good margin for retailers and a very good margin for manufacturers. It's just a very efficient technology. So, you know, we knew it was going to come down. We just didn't know where. 

 The reason why the game isn't over is because the trial rates are still very low. You know, I'm not up to the minute on this, Wendy, but I would be surprised if even 10% of U.S. homes, I think it's more like 5% to 7% of the U.S. homes have ever tried any whitening treatment product at home. 

 I mean, I was just looking in Daily Facials. We're in the third year of Daily Facials and we're still under 15% trial rate of the new form. So there's still a lot of upside potential, and you build scale, you get down your -- you know, you get up your learning curve and you get down your cost curve and so the math works. The financings work. 

 CLAYTON DALEY, JR.: These are still financially very attractive. 

 WENDY NICHOLSON: Do you have any numbers -- and I am sorry for monopolizing your time. You can move on after this, but do you have any numbers in terms of repeat purchase for WhiteStrips? 

 ALAN LAFLEY: We do. I just don't have them at my fingertips, but they are pretty good. You know, they are pretty good. The repurchase rates are pretty high. It's polarizing. It's a polarizing product just as the liquid paint-on products are polarizing, but the repurchase is pretty high. 

 WENDY NICHOLSON: Okay. Thank you so much, A. G.. 

 OPERATOR: Joe Altadello with CIBC World Markets. 

 JOE ALTADELLO (ph), CIBC WORLD MARKETS: Hey, guys, good morning. Two quick questions. 

 One, could you talk about volume growth and sales growth? Long term, you guys expect to be pretty much equal but unfortunately in the near term, volume growth has outpaced sales growth. When do you see those two converging at least in the next 12 to 18 months or so? 

 And second, on the acquisition front, if you can give us a little more color on exactly what types of acquisitions you are looking for from a strategic perspective. 

 CLAYTON DALEY, JR.: Joe, I think that the split between volume and sales growth, as we said in the guidance for the March quarter, it's going to continue for a lot of the same factors that were in play in October-December, and I think we're going to continue to see some gap there until those factors annualize themselves, which means I expect to see it narrow, but I expect it probably to continue through most of calendar '03. 

 Relative to the acquisition area, I think all we're really prepared to say is we said in the past that our acquisition strategy is focused on Health Care, Beauty Care, and potentially Fabric and Home Care where we can find a good tactical addition to the portfolio and so that's where we are looking. But I want to emphasize as we said at our analyst meeting in December that, you know, we recognize the acquisitions are higher risk, we're very aware of the fact that most acquisitions sell and therefore we're going to be very disciplined in our acquisition program to make sure that anything we acquire is going to earn return in excess of what we can earn if we put that cash into share repurchase. 

 So I hope we're -- and I hope frankly some of the results that we're turning in on Clairol and IAMS are helping assure our shareholders that we are -- we think we're becoming a much more disciplined acquirer. 

 JOE ALTADELLO (ph): One more question on Cap Ex. It's been pretty light the first half of the year. Do you expect it to pick up the second half? 

 CLAYTON DALEY, JR.: Well, as I say, we think it will end up -- it's always light on a percent of sales basis in the first half. I think we're going to end up the year in can kind of the net 4%ish range that we've been talking about, plus or minus a little. 

 JOE ALTADELLO (ph): Okay. Great. Thanks. 

 CARMEN EDIE, PRUDENTIAL SECURITIES: Carmen Edie with Prudential Securities, please go ahead. Good morning. I have two questions. 

 One is on the pharmaceutical business, could you talk about whether or not Actonel has been launched into new countries, or has new implications, and when you expect this 80% growth rate to continue, and secondly, if you could give us an update on Prylosec and then I have a follow-up question on Europe. 

 ALAN LAFLEY: Okay. 

 Actonel is sold today across North America and most of Western Europe and in Japan. Once a week has just been cleared in some more European countries. I think Sweden was the most recent one. So we're expecting, hoping for the same kind of lift that we got from once-a-week in the U.S. to occur in the European union. 

 On Prylosec, we think we're in the final stages of clearance and approval. Right now our plan is to hopefully be in the market by fall of 2003. 

 And I think as you know, Connie, that we're in the final -- the final stages are around labeling. 

 CARMEN EDIE: Right. 

 ALAN LAFLEY: And there are a couple of small labeling issues that we're working out. 

 CARMEN EDIE: Thanks. My other question is on Europe. 

 It seems from the comments that were made earlier that there are market share gains in many. So could you talk about the turn-around if you are up in the one or two or three things that are pushing that? 

 ALAN LAFLEY: Yes. 

 I'm very pleased with the progress Paul Pullman and the entire European leadership team have made, you know. We talked about the company, you know, finishing last year one year ahead of schedule, and I would have to say that Europe is running at least a year ahead of the schedule we thought we would be on. Frankly the improvement is pretty broad based. 

 As you may recall, we actually have stronger market share positions in Western Europe on Baby Care and on Fem Care than we have in the U.S., and certainly in most other markets in the world. We've been steady as she goes at around a 50 market share, on Fem Care, a little bit below, sometimes a little bit above. 

 We've just exceeded a 50 share again on Baby Care in Western Europe, and frankly we've had strong growth in a number of countries, you know. The U.K., France, Belgium, Portugal. I mean, we're adding five and six share points to our Baby Care shares in the last period. So those two businesses are in reasonably strong shape. 

 Frankly in Fem Care there's some innovation that we want to bring and we've got to stay competitive against our toughest competitor, our toughest emerging competitor in Fem Care looks like it's going to be private label, and lower price brands. 

 We've also -- I think we mentioned we achieved a 30-month share high in Fabric Care. We're growing in Home Care, and Hair Care which is our -- you know, one of our newer businesses, we basically only sell the, you know, the Pantene and Head & Shoulders brands and not in all countries, and we're starting to get ready to introduce Herbal Essences in a few markets, but we have a two-year share high in France. 

 Our U.K. share is running about a third of the market and it's up about 10 share points versus just a few years ago. So we're making progress across the board. And I think three things are working for us. 

 One is we said we're going to focus first, second, and third on the core businesses, and we've really focused on the core businesses. 

 The second thing we said is we're really going to make this MDO organization work for us, and we've built a lot of capability. I won't bore you with all the systems that are in place, but we're to the point where we're just executing a lot better. You know, maybe as well as we've ever executed, you know, in Western Europe. 

 And the third thing is, again, we've been fortunate enough to lead innovation in many of these businesses. So, you know, the brands have been there, they have had good, strong equities, we've improved the brand in marketing execution and we've brought innovation and that's what's been lifting the shares. 

 And I guess the last thing I would say is, you know, when your volumes are growing at these kinds of rates, your cost structures get better and so they are making good progress on the bottom line, too. 

 CARMEN EDIE: Very good progress on the bottom line. That's helpful. Thanks. 

 OPERATOR: We'll now turn to Andrew Shore with Deutsche Banc. 

 ANDREW SHORE (ph), DEUTSCHE BANC: Good morning. Two things. 

 A. G., first, how come you are not getting paid as much as the guy from E-trade? No, I'm kidding. In terms of the three-year plan, can you help us understand how this ties in Asia with some of the things that Jim Stengle has done in terms of keeping brand managers in a position now for three years? What does this mean for career advancement? 

 I've heard P&G is having problems with personnel below really right below the Director level. That is, there are a lot of competent people but there is really a logjam and just aren't enough jobs? So if you could touch on that, and then I have a follow-up. 

 ALAN LAFLEY: Okay. 

 Well, continuity, continuity is the staffing strategy that goes with, you know, launch, grow, and leverage, right? And there is a clear corelation, Andrew, between our success rate and when we've left the leadership team, you know, in place on the business. So I mean, the people running the WhiteStrips business today are the people that were with the WhiteStrips project from the beginning. 

 You know, one of the reasons, one of the reasons why we've done better with IAMS and I hope we'll do better with Clairol, is we've retained the majority of the leadership in virtually all of the clear -- all of the key players, you know, on these businesses. And unfortunately, as you know, you know, we didn't do that, you know, with some of our acquisitions in the late '80s and the early nineties. So there is absolutely no doubt that continuity, the team, whether it's an innovation team or whether it's an acquisition team makes a difference. 

 I think the other thing we've realized is that where we were struggling a few years ago and arguably over the last decade, we were up against competitors that had a lot more continuity in their leadership, all the way to my job. And so we have, you know, kind of moved away from the GE approach where everybody moves every 18 to 24 months, you know, to an approach where we want continuity through the President level and the General Manager level. 

 And, you know, frankly I think our people are performing -- they have more confidence and frankly they take more intelligent risks. They take more risks and they take more intelligent risks when they have deeper knowledge of the business. So I think that's, you know, that's working for us. 

 You had another question. 

 OPERATOR: Mr. Shore? 

 ALAN LAFLEY: Oh, Andrew, on the people issue? 

 ANDREW SHORE (ph): Yeah. 

 ALAN LAFLEY: I think there are three things going on. One is we have a very talented group of people at every level and despite all of the ups and downs over the previous three to five years, we have been fortunate enough to, you know, retain a very high percentage of our key people, and that is you know, we ask why. One, we're grateful, very grateful; two, we've worked hard to stay close to all of our key people and for them to stay close to the people in their organization; three, we've probably been helped by the collapse of telecom, the bursting of the internet bubble. 

 We've actually had people come back from the West Coast who went off to try to the internet game. We've recruited incredibly well the past few years because frankly most of our competition isn't even on campus, you know, anymore, and our approach to recruiting is the same as our approach to developing markets. We're there when times are tough trying to build our market share and our position. So we do have a very strong cadre of people right now. 

 The only way we're going to create opportunities is to grow, and that's why the innovation I so important, that's why we're trying to get ourselves to a position where our sustainable growth rates are higher than our historical growth rates have been. The mixing of more Health, Beauty Care, and Personal Care businesses helps us because those are inherently higher growth categories and we have much lower market shares there. The strategy we're embarking on in developing markets helps us grow, but the key to opportunity for all of us is growth. 

 ANDREW SHORE (ph): Okay. 

 I mean, I don't want to beat this up too much because I think it's a good policy, but what happens if you are a brand manager, for example, on, say, Sunny Delight or Dreft? I mean, is that a prison sentence for three years? 

 ALAN LAFLEY: Andrew, I was the brand manager of Ivory Snow and Dreft. I made it. 

 ANDREW SHORE (ph): All right. I guess you answered it. 

 ALAN LAFLEY: I keep telling people, you know, it's not the assignment you draw. It's how well you do on the assignment that you get. And I'm probably Exhibit A for some of this stuff. 

 ANDREW SHORE (ph): All right. And then just two seconds. Can you comment further on what Carol asked about, the portfolio? 

 A. G., do you know what percentage of your portfolio today is, say, from super premium brands versus premium versus mass versus value and how that might compare versus a couple of years ago? 

 ALAN LAFLEY: Yeah. 

 Versus the whole -- well, you know, I don't know off the top of my head across all the businesses. I would say we probably have -- we clearly have more of our portfolio positioned in the middle of the market but we also have a pretty high percentage of our portfolio still positioned in what I would call super premium because our strategy which seems to work most of the time is to -- you know, is to bring big edge innovation, dramatically new innovation in at a premium price point, and, you know, and try to see if we can create a new segment and a new model of consumer value. 

 One of the interesting things, if you just look down our top 14 brands around the world, virtually every premium brand, okay, except -- with the exception of Pringles, where we're struggling in development markets, virtually every premium price brand is growing at or above the 4% to 6% rate. 

 So, you know, we're not struggling on those businesses. Those businesses are doing fine. What we're doing is continuing to drive those businesses and then add in, you know, net extra, the mid price business. 

 ANDREW SHORE (ph): Okay. Great. Thank you very much. 

 ALAN LAFLEY: Thank you. 

 OPERATOR: We'll move now to Alec Patterson with Dresdner RCM. 

 ALEC PATTERSON (ph), DRESDNER RCM: Yeah, a standard two-part single question. 

 The number, Clayt, through out about operating margins in the March quarter, could you just restate that? 

 CLAYTON DALEY, JR.: Operating margins, we're looking for if it was around 50 basis points. 

 ALEC PATTERSON (ph): Up? 

 CLAYTON DALEY, JR.: Yes, up. Up. 

 ALEC PATTERSON (ph): Okay. 

 And secondly, on the shares outstanding, I thought there was a fair amount of share activity and I'm not sure I got the numbers right but it didn't look like there was a big share count change; is that right? 

 CLAYTON DALEY, JR.: Well, this -- yeah. As you know, the share count change is affected by the stock options, and so what we've had happening over the last, you know, two years as the stock has done relatively well is stock options that were out of the money have come back into the money and therefore they go back into the share count. 

 ALEC PATTERSON (ph): All right. 

 CLAYTON DALEY, JR.: So -- and the share repurchase activity is tending to offset that. 

 ALEC PATTERSON (ph): Okay. So we should expect that to more or less continue for a little while? 

 CLAYTON DALEY, JR.: Well, yeah, although with the way the stock market's going right now, we're not going to have a lot more options come back in the money unless we get a little bit of a turnaround in the market. 

 ALEC PATTERSON (ph): Okay. 

 CLAYTON DALEY, JR.: So that will tends to level off unless there is a, you know, move up in the general market in our stock. 

 ALEC PATTERSON (ph): Fair enough. Lastly, just as overall growth in the developing markets double-digit rates, et cetera, et cetera, typically the P&L structure in developing markets is lower gross margins but also lower M&RA to sales type ratios, that mix effect as that area grows faster than the base, do we see that play out or is that incorrect assumption? 

 CLAYTON DALEY, JR.: Well, I think it will get caught up in the mix here. 

 I think your assumption is directionally correct, that in developing markets, the gross margins tend to be a little lower and hopefully then there's also lower overhead and sometimes lower marketing that's required in those markets as well. But that's all factored in to our long-term targets, that you recall in December we said we think that, you know, we can grow the gross margin line disproportionately and that does factor in the expectation of developing market, and frankly other mid-tier growth. 

 ALAN LAFLEY: And if I could just say one other thing. It also depends on our mix in the developing market to the extent that we've been able to create a strong Personal Care and Beauty Care business. You can command, you can command more pricing and you can command higher gross margins even in developing markets in some of those businesses. 

 ALEC PATTERSON (ph): Yeah. 

 I'm just trying to splice out what our healthy margins transfers, if those are just direct results of geographical mix. 

 CLAYTON DALEY, JR.: Yeah. 

 And as -- and as we said before, our developing market margins net tend to be about comparable to the company average. So we're not --we shouldn't be seeing, you know, margin delusion, if you will, there. 

 ALEC PATTERSON (ph): Okay. Great. Thanks very much. 

 CLAYTON DALEY, JR.: Yeah, okay. 

 OPERATOR: We'll move on to Art Cecil with T. Rowe Price. 

 CLAYTON DALEY, JR.: Hey, Art. 

 ART CECIL (ph), T. ROWE PRICE: Good morning. I hesitate to be part of the longest quarterly conference call in history, but here goes. Does EBIT benefit more from foreign exchange than the revenue line? 

 CLAYTON DALEY, JR.: No. You know, since -- Art, since we manufacture our products generally in the same currencies as we sell them and since our organizations tend to be resident and therefore denominated in the same currencies that we sell the products, there is not --little or no FX impact between sales and EBIT. 

 ART CECIL (ph): So if FX adds 1% to revenue, it adds 1% to EBIT, roughly? 

 CLAYTON DALEY, JR.: Roughly. Although I've got to tell you, though, in this environment that we're in now, the FX, as you know, is a composite of strength in Europe and weakness in Latin America. 

 ART CECIL (ph): Right. 

 CLAYTON DALEY, JR.: And for that to be neutral or for you to get your FX gain to the bottom line, you've got to be pricing to recover all of these devaluations that are occurring in Latin America right now. 

 ART CECIL (ph): Okay. 

 CLAYTON DALEY, JR.: And that is not really happening. 

 ART CECIL (ph): Okay. You mentioned the top developing markets which I think were Mexico, China, Philippines, Russia, Middle East and so forth. And that these sales are growing very rapidly. Let's take the December quarter. Their sales were up pretty sharply. 

 What was the EBIT from those countries, was that up more than their sales, or was that up as fast as their sales? 

 CLAYTON DALEY, JR.: Directionally their EBIT would be equal to -- it depends really. In some of these markets like Russia, China, I think the EBIT would be up faster, okay? There are a few markets like Mexico where frankly because of -- you know, there has been a little bit of devaluation in Mexico and there are some issues in Mexico where that might not be completely the case. 

 ART CECIL (ph): But overall the EBIT from these developing markets is growing in line with the sales? 

 CLAYTON DALEY, JR.: I think so. That's a good assumption, at least in line. 

 ALAN LAFLEY: At least. 

 ART CECIL (ph): Okay. One final thing. And that is that you keep using this term "systemic intervention" and I'm just curious. 

 In what ways is that a new tool that allows you to basically say, I think, that you can continue to do your growth targets even in the tough environment? 

 ALAN LAFLEY: That's our hope, Art. 

 ART CECIL (ph): But what's new about systemic intervention? 

 ALAN LAFLEY: Okay. 

 Let me -- I'll use one example, all right, from many I could use. I have to be careful here because some of this is, I believe, proprietary. 

 Here's a simple way to think about it. There are, in a lot of industries that live or die on innovation, okay, there are innovation development models. Okay, from the earliest stage when you're trying to capture a discovery or an idea through various development stages, through various commercialization stages, and we have worked really hard the last few years to understand best practices from dramatically different industries than our own, and to go through every phase and every step of every phase of the model so we can systematize as much as you can. You are never going to turn every innovation into cookie cutter or widget production. That's impossible, okay. It's not that kind of a process. 

 But we have been able to demonstrate in different phases, in different steps and different phases that we can move the success rate up. What it enables you to do is weed the garden faster. The trick in innovation is to pull the weeds early so you fail cheap and you fail fast because you are going to fail a lot. 

 And then the other part of the trick is to commercialize for maximum success, and if we can do just those two things, on a more consistent and reliable basis, then we think we can innovate through tough economic times and through robust economic times and that, we believe, is a key, you know, a key to sustainable success in our kind of business. So we're trying to systematize those pieces. We're trying to get everybody trained on the best practices and we're trying to continually improve the system so we get better. 

 ART CECIL (ph): All right. Thank you. 

 ALAN LAFLEY: Okay, Art. 

 OPERATOR: And with that we'll conclude today's question-and-answer session. Mr. Daley, I'll turn the call back over to you. 

 CLAYTON DALEY, JR.: Thank you. You know, we apologize for the length of the call, but we really did want to try to get as many people, give as many people an opportunity to ask questions as we could. As I said at the beginning, John Goodwin, Juan Pedro, and I will be available the rest of the day for any follow-up questions. Thanks very much for hanging with us. 

 OPERATOR: And with that we'll conclude today's conference call. Thank you, everyone, for your participation. 

 [CCBN reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes. 

 In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized. 

 THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES CCBN ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. Copyright 2002, CCBN, Inc. All Rights Reserved.] 

 [Copyright: Content copyright 2002 CCBN, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Electronic format, layout and metadata, copyright 2002 FDCH e-Media, Inc. (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.) ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user's personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon CCBN's or FDCH e-Media's copyright or other proprietary rights or interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CCBN and FDCH e-Media so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CCBN and FDCH e-Media as the originators and copyright holders of such material. This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation.] 

   CO
prgml : The Procter & Gamble Company
   IN
i25 : Chemicals | i258 : Cosmetics/Toiletries | icnp : Consumer Products
   AN
Document fndw000020030129dz1s0005n
  


 HD
 Q3  2002  Procter  & Gamble Company Earnings Conference Call - Final 
   WC
12,244 words
   PD
30 April 2002
   ET
12:30 PM GMT
   SN
Financial Disclosure Wire
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
 (c) Copyright eMediaMillWorks, Inc. (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.). All Rights Reserved. 

   LP
 OPERATOR:  Welcome to the Procter & Gamble third quarter earnings release conference call.  Just as a reminder, today's call is being recorded.  The rebroadcast, reproduction or retransmission of this conference call in whole or in part is strictly prohibited without the prior written consent of the Procter & Gamble Company. 

 At this time, for opening remarks and introduction, I'd like to turn the call over to the chief financial officer, Mr. Clay Daley. 

   TD
 CLAY DALEY, CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER, PROCTER & GAMBLE:  Thank you. 

 Good morning, and welcome to Procter & Gamble's quarter-end conference call.  We apologize for the brief delay, but we wanted to make sure that we got everybody on the call before we began. 

 Joining me this morning is AG Lafley, our CEO, and Juan Pedro Hernandez, our treasurer.  I'll begin the call today with a summary of our third quarter results; Juan Pedro will cover our business results by operating segment; AG will follow with his perspective on our progress and our organizational leadership changes.  And I'll wrap up with our expectations for the June quarter and provide some brief perspective on next fiscal year. 

 As usual, we'll leave time at the end of today's call for your questions, and Juan Pedro, John Goodwin and I will also be available after the call to provide additional perspective as needed. 

 Now on to our third quarter results which were in line with our revised guidance and above consensus, delivering double-digit volume and core EPS growth for the company. 

 Deluded net earnings per share were 74 cents on the quarter, including $147 million after-tax restructuring costs.  Core net earnings, which exclude restructuring costs were 84 cents per share, up 12 percent versus a year ago and a penny above the consensus estimate.  This improvement in core earnings versus a base that has been adjusted by 4 cents per share to reflect the new FASB standard on business combinations and other intangible assets, which Procter & Gamble adopted as of July 1, 2001. 

 Sales excluding foreign exchange were up 7 percent versus a year ago. FX negatively impacted the top line by 3 percent, primarily due to weakness in the euro, yen and Argentinian peso.  Volume increased 10 percent, including Clairol, which added 4 percent.  The strong performance, ex-acquisitions, was driven across a number of business units with health care and fabric and home care showing figures of plus-16 and plus-6 respectively. 

 On a geographic basis, every regional market development organization posted positive volume growth this quarter, excluding the impact of Clairol.  Of note, the developing markets of China and Central and Eastern Europe are having particularly good years, with both regions delivering double-digit volume growth off setting political and economic turmoil in Latin America. 

 Price and mix were down 3 percent versus a year ago due to the pass-through of lower commodity costs to consumers primarily in coffee and tissue, structural pricing adjustments in fabric and home care and beauty care, as well as mix -- excuse me, baby care, as well as mix affects.  The mix affects were primarily in beauty care, behind the Clairol integration.  Excluding Clairol and the pass-through of commodity price reductions, pricing and mix was down only 1 percent. 

 Now, core gross margin increased 310 basis points, roughly two-thirds of the improvement stems from higher volume, lower underlying commodity costs, the benefits from plant restructuring projects and other efficiency improvements such as coordinated central purchasing and flexible formula developments. 

 The balance, one-third of the gross margin improvement, is associated with the portfolio shift that is going on within the company.  We have moved more of our total volume into businesses with higher gross margins, such as hair care, including the addition of Clairol, oral care and pharmaceuticals.  This has, in turn, led to higher gross margins at the corporate level. 

 Core marketing research and administrative costs were up 30 basis points.  This is driven by Clairol transition costs and higher marketing spending behind both big established brands and new brands and initiatives.  These increases have been largely offset by lower selling, research and administrative costs behind savings from our restructuring program's reduction in force.  Absent the Clairol affect, MR&A would have been down by 30 basis points versus being up 30. 

 It is important to note that the mix impact of the corporate portfolio shift, which helped our gross margin trend, has the opposite effect in the case of our MR&A percentages. 

 This is because health and beauty care categories have higher levels of MR & A spending than the balance of our portfolio. 

 Now, our integration of Clairol is progressing well.  In the March quarter we completed plans to consolidate the commercial functions. And we have begun work to integrate the manufacturing operations.  In May, virtually all Clairol products will be consolidated into our current SAT (ph) platform and Clairol products will be shipped with P& G products out of common distribution facilities.  Importantly, we are on track to deliver the synergies (ph) that we expected when we made the acquisition. 

 Our poor (ph) operating income was up 22 percent with an operating margin at nearly 19 percent.  The 280 basis point expansion and overall operating margin was driven by particularly strong earnings improvements in our fabric and home care and health care businesses. Non-operating income was significantly down versus year goal by about $185 million. 

 This was due to lower gains from minor brand investitures as the base period included the gains from the sale of both our institutional shortening and oil business and the home care brands, such as Cinch (ph) and Spic and Span.   This decrease was partially offset by lower interest expenses. 

 Our tax rate for the quarter is slightly below 32 percent.  It became clear as the quarter progressed that more of our annual profits will be generated in the U.S. than originally anticipated.  Our tax rate for the year is now expected to be slightly above 31 percent.  Long term, as the percentage of our earnings in the international operations grow, we anticipate that our tax rate will resume its downward trend. 

 Our year-to-date pre cash flow generation before dividends totaled $4.2 billion, more than double the first nine months in fiscal 2001. Approximately 700 million of the cash flow improvement was due to more efficient capital spending. 

 We anticipate that our capital spending for the year will be at about five percent of sales, significantly below our objective of reducing capital spending to six percent of sales or less.  Not only have we surpassed our capital spending objective but we've done it one year earlier than anticipated. 

 To be clear, this outstanding reduction in capital expenditures by our operating businesses is part of a comprehensive program started two years ago.  It covers setting clear goals to become best in class versus benchmark competitors, improving capacity utilization on our installed capital, making cost discipline and focus on new capital a fundamental business unit goal in a conscious strategic choice to outsource some of our established businesses, manufacturing and/or source new brands and products from the outside. 

 We are currently evaluating the right ongoing target capital spending level for the company, building our earnings over the last two fiscal years and our external benchmarking analysis. 

 Now, the remainder of the cash flow increase year to date are driven by higher payables balances associated with the change in timing of tax payments.  Of these tax related changes, about $700 million are largely non-recurring improvements.  Cash flow productivity was once again over 100 percent, significantly above our target of 75 percent. 

 These are very encouraging results, with the company delivering in line with its long-term objectives on all team (ph) metrics, sales goals, core earnings per share goals and cash flow goals.  We have delivered sequential improvement throughout  this fiscal year.  We are clearly making strong progress in implementing the strategies and structural adjustments that will enable us to sustain 4 to 6 percent top-line growth, double-digit EPS (ph) growth and grow cash flow faster than earnings. 

 Now, at this point, I'll turn the microphone over to Juan Pedro, who will cover the business unit performance at the segment (ph) level. 

 JUAN PEDRO HERNANDEZ, TREASURER, PROCTER & GAMBLE:  Thank you. (inaudible) volume growth 6 percent and sales were 2.8 billion up 5 percent excluding a negative 3 percent.  Volume growth was partially upset by consumer value adjustments in western Europe and Latin America. 

 Earnings of $472 million were up 36 percent behind sales growth, strong cost saving program and lowered material prices.  The North American product frontier of business was particularly strong this quarter, with volume up ten percent excluding the impact of the Comet divestiture.  U.S. fabric care continues to show impressive growth behind the product immigration program and focus on those two market fundamentals. 

 Tide Clean Breeze, Bounty Clean Breeze and Gain Island Fresh will advance in this quarter.  All three initiatives are off to a good start behind new advertising, strong consumer propositions and close work with key customers to improve the effectiveness of our product assortment and merchandising.  U.S. hand dish care is also delivering excellent results with a fast three month dollar share up 5.3 percentage points to a (inaudible) high. 

 The Dawn brand contributed 4.9 percentage points of the goal and had widened its lead versus the nearest consecutor by over 11 share points. As the (inaudible) example, the (inaudible) results have come from a focus on the fundamentals of products, packaging and (inaudible) market execution.  (inaudible) Frontier has done a very good job of driving cost savings  (inaudible) about half of the savings versus last year's March quarter are due to lower material prices have resulted in operational improvement in both areas (inaudible) 

 The material savings have been achieved by moving to flexible formulations that are able to take advantage of changing material availability and pricing and by better coordination of material purchasing around the world. 

 Moving on to health care, volume gross up 16 percent driven by a strong oral care, pharma and pet health and nutrition sales.  Net sales were $1.2 billion up 13 percent, excluding a negative 2 percent exchange impact.  Net earnings were $124 million up 36 percent versus last year, reflecting volume and sales growth of high margin items. Oral care again delivered excellent volume. (inaudible) now have to be a volume share of leadership and (inaudible) capture it on a volume share basis. 

 Volume share of the electronic toothbrush market, include (inaudible) is up nearly nine share points from last year.  This reflects a consumer switching to electric brushes in search of a better brushing experience, better cleaning and better value. 

 Crest Whitestrips has already above $200 million in community sales since launch in may last year.  This professional level whitening product recently became the first oral care initiative to win the best of year award from the prestigious cosmetic executive (inaudible) organization.  Whitestrips was launched in Canada in the March quarter and is off to a strong start. 

 In addition to expanding to new segments, we continue to drive innovation in our base oral care business with products like dual-action whitening and Crest Whitening Plus Scope.  In the U.S. Crest Whitening Plus Scope is off to a strong start, reaching a two and a half volume share after only eight weeks in the marketplace. This has helped drive U.S. toothpaste quarterly share up by 2.3 percentage points, nearly a 9 percent increase versus last year. 

 Pharmaceuticals continued their strong growth with volume up 19 percent in this quarter.  Actonel lead the progress with past 12-month sales already exceeding $300 million globally. 

 Our tech (ph) health business also had a strong volume quarter, up 8 percent versus a year ago.  This includes encouraging progress in Europe driven by our (inaudible) large (inaudible) senior and light (ph) products.  In the large U.S. market we are delivering our ninth consecutive quarter of share growth, with all (inaudible) share of 13 points, 5 percent, up .6 percentage points versus a year ago. 

 New product innovations, including the breakthrough in (inaudible) control are the key drivers of growth. 

 Turning now to (inaudible) care, this business unit delivered volume growth of 28 percent for the March quarter.  This is the first full quarter including the (inaudible) business (inaudible) and divestitures, volume was up 4 percent lead by continued growth of hair care and fine fragrances.  Sales reached $2.1 billion, an increase of 21 percent, excluding a 3 percent negative (inaudible) change impact. 

 Sales grew at the lower rate on volume due to mix.  The (inaudible) business carriers lowered unit revenue and the balance of our beauty care business.  Also base period sales include (inaudible) pipeline volume for (inaudible) total effects (inaudible).  Those have unit revenue higher than the balance of our skin care business. 

 Sales, excluding acquisitions and divestitures, were up 1 percent. Earnings were $269 million up 11 percent and (inaudible) volume due primarily to the mixed effects from Player (ph).  From PlayDoh shares of the coloram (ph) business of telling cleats (ph) showing softness due to aggressive competitive activity due to the long acquisition period and the long business decision.This impact was luckily anticipated, and we are confident in our ability to grow this business in the long-term through our global go-to market support and by strengthening our innovation program.  Our hair care business, excluding PlayDoh, continued to show good progress behind our latest round of initiatives. 

 In the U.S., Pantene and Head and Shoulders sales were up 15 and 17 percent respectively.  Fine fragrances volume was up 21 percent, including the newly acquired Jean Bateau (ph) and Lacoste (ph) brands. The Hugo Boss fragrance franchise grew 47 percent during this quarter behind our newer fragrances, Deep Red and Dark Blue.  In addition, our classic Hugo Boss green fragrance grew for the sixth consecutive year since launch.Cosmetics are also delivering strong results behind great innovations and excellent go-to-market execution.  In North America, covert general outlast  has driven the brand past six months lead color (ph) shares up by almost 80 percent to 17.5 percent. Likewise, (inaudible) has lifted Max Factor's six-month lead color (ph) share to 7.2 percent, more than twice last year's level. 

 Next on food and beverage, we have delivered a strong double digit earnings growth.  Unit volume was down 1 percent showing noticeable improvement showing a soft start of the fiscal year.  Sales of $879 million were around 4 percent, excluding a negative 1 percent affording (ph) a change impact, but including a 3 percent negative from the past through of lower green coffee prices to consumers. 

 Their names grew strongly 18 percent to 79 million behind improvements in overhead expenses, and aggressive restructuring activities in manufacturing.  Finally, the baby and family care business posted volume gains of 4 percent.  Sales were $2.9 billion, a growth of 2 percent excluding a 3 percent impact from FX. 

 Consumer pricing adjustment impacted the topline by negative 3 percent.  The pricing adjustments include (inaudible) changes and laps to improve our own growing consumer value equation, as well as increases in promotional spending and family care to pass along lower family prices to consumers.  (inaudible) mix primarily from Pampers baby stage of development helped sales by 1 percent. 

 Earnings were $263 million up 11 percent behind strong cost savings progress across all carriers.  Included in the $263 million earnings is an $18 million (inaudible) in gain related to a feminine care licensing transaction with our now consolidated joint venture partner in Italy. Excluding this one-time gain, earnings would have been up 4 percent despite initiative investments behind the various stages of development expansion. 

 Family care delivered another good volume quarter, up 7 percent with solid growth in North America, western Europe and Mexico.  The family care business delivered improvements across all elements of cost (inaudible) solid earnings growth despite volume declines of 1 percent. 

 Baby care has continued to delivered good results behind the various stages of development launch.  Since expansion in our premiums, segment share in the U.K. and France have nearly doubled.  We launched various stage of development in the U.S. in February, and early awareness and trial results are in line with our expectations. 

 This completes our global business unit review of the March quarter. 

 Now, I would like to turn the call to AG Lafley. 

 AG LAFLEY, CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER, PROCTER & GAMBLE:  Thank you, Juan Pedro. 

 January-March was a strong quarter for P&G not only because we achieved our long-term financial growth rate ahead of schedule, but also because the business and financial results are clear evidence that P&G's strategies are working. 

 The choices we've made are delivering consistently better business and financial results:  focus on core categories, billion dollar brands and the biggest countries and biggest customers; focus on faster growing, higher margin, more asset efficient business, like beauty care and health care; focus on turning around western Europe and accelerating growth in key developing markets, like China, Mexico, central and eastern Europe; focus on cash and cost. 

 We're getting back on track.  We're playing the P&G strengths of branding, innovation, marketing and global scale.  And we're positioned to grow consistently year-in and year-out, 4 to 6 percent sales, 10 percent EPS with robust free cash-flow. 

 All global business units grew earnings for the second consecutive quarter.  Every regional market development organization grew unit volume.  Market shares are up in the U.S. in all four core categories on eight of our top 10 brands.  In Europe market shares are up in two of four core categories and holding on the balance two.  In developing regions around the world, market shares are going slowly but surely in more core categories, in more leading brands, and at key customers. 

 The strategic choices we've made are delivering better results today and laying firmer foundations for the future.  The organization structure we moved to is improving focus on the consumer and customers. Accountability is clearer, decision making faster, innovation flowing better, and execution more consistently excellent when we go to market. 

 We've improved the consumer value equation, P&G brand's offer. Pricing is more competitive.  P&G brands are more affordable.  P&G products are better differentiated.  More products deliver consumer-noticeable superiority, and more desirable consumer usage experiences.  In leading innovation in more categories, and pacing innovation better on our leading brands.  Several P&G products have achieved or soon will achieve $100 million or more in sales. 

 New brands like Actonel and Swiffer and new products like Crest Spinbrush and Whitestrips, Cover Girl Outlast lipstick, and Olay Daily Facials, new product lines like Pampers' baby stages of development and Olay total effects.  Beyond the strategic choicefulness, the operating discipline, the new organization structure and the focus on branding and innovation, we've installed the next generation of leadership at P&G. 

 To be clear, I am not talking about myself.  While I will take on the duties of chairman this summer, I will continue to consult with John Pepper who will stay on as chairman of the executive committee of the board. 

 And I will share the considerable external workload of this company with our two new vice chairman, Bruce Byrnes and Kerry Clark.  Bruce and Kerry are both outstanding business leaders with broad and deep experience across a range of businesses around the world.  But beyond the four of us, we've installed the next generation of P&G leadership. And for the past two to three years, half of our top 30 leaders are new. 

 Our diverse leaders with broader business backgrounds and with the kind of hands-on business experiences it takes to be a leader in a faster-changing, more competitive, more global marketplace.  These men and women have worked in a number of categories and in a number of different countries around the world. 

 Individually and collectively, they have more diverse business experience and more on the ground international experience than any previous generation of P&G leaders.  The president of the operating businesses and the leaders of the corporate functions hail from 13 different countries: most of them have considerable business experience in two or three of our four major regions. 

 Most have worked a number of categories and in a number of countries. Most have experience in developing as well as developed markets.  They know what it's like to be the newcomer, to have to compete against well-entrenched international and local competitors.  These are the leaders who are stepping up, setting clear strategies for their businesses, and setting out to make their businesses clear cut leaders in their respective industries. 

 These presidents and their 100 general managers of categories and countries around the world are inspirational leaders seeking to delight consumers, serve our customers better and compete more effectively with best-in-class competitors for leadership in the industries we choose to compete in. 

 They're the ones responsible for winning business strategies on a business unit basis.  They have clear accountability for the shareholder returns that their businesses need to achieve.  They're squarely focused on what is required to win over the long-term.  And in the end, they count on all P&Gers around the world to demonstrate leadership and ownership and to execute with excellence at both moments of truth when consumers buy and when consumers use P&G brand of products. 

 Now, back to Clay. 

 CLAY DALEY:  Thanks, AG. 

 I'd now like to wrap up with the guidance.  For the June quarter we expect to continue our strong top and bottom line improvements versus a year ago.  Volume is forecasted to be up in the high single digits. This growth will be driven by Clairol, health care, and continuing strength in fabric and home care and Babysan and family care. 

 Growth in the base business will be partially offset by the impact of the Jiff and Crisco spin merge, which we anticipate will close about the middle of the quarter.  This will reduce volume growth by about 1 percent.  Excluding Clairol and the impact of the Jiff-Crisco spin merge, our core volume growth should be up in the mid single-digits. 

 We expect sales, excluding foreign exchange, to be up in mid singles. AT the current exchange rates, foreign exchange will negatively impact the top line by 2 to 3 percent.  Operating margins should be up about 100 basis points.  Now, more than the total improvement will come in the gross margin line, while marketing spending will be considerably higher than in the base period. 

 This is behind our continuous investment in proven business building advertising and initiative programs, including numerous fabric care initiatives, Pampers baby stages of development, Thermacare and Crest Spinbrush and Whitestrips geographic expansion.  This will more than offset the restructuring savings in MR&A (ph). 

 Operating income should be up in the high single-digits.  Nonoperating income will be roughly in line with a year ago.  Core earnings per share growth should be up in the low teens, reflecting the strong volume growth, higher operating margins and lower interest expense. 

 Turning to next fiscal year:  Now, our forecasting and financial planning process for next year is not yet complete.  We will provide full guidance on the 2003 fiscal year during the June quarter end-earnings call, but I wanted to provide some preliminary perspective today. 

 On the top line, we anticipate being at our long-term sales growth rate up 4 to 6 percent, although we are likely to be toward the low end of this range.  The full affect of the Jif and Crisco spin merge will offset the four and a half months of incremental sales from Clairol that we will see next year. 

 On core EPF, we again expect to deliver our long-term goal of double-digit growth.  Now we expect to achieve this despite the anticipated increase in interest rates in line with the current yield curve and even lower levels of income from minor brand divestitures than we've seen this year.  As a result, we anticipate operating income will need to grow at a rate ahead of the growth rate and core earnings per share. 

 On cash flow; we continue to focus on improving the key drivers.  We expect that capital spending will be less than 6 percent of sales and free cash flow productivity should be at or ahead of our 75 percent target. 

 Finally, we'll be shifting the category reporting of our feminine care business from the baby, fem and family care segment to the beauty care segment.  We believe that this will create business opportunities from common consumer learnings, research and synergies from joint customer interfaces in feminine care and personal beauty care products. 

 This will take effect from the start of 2003 fiscal year.  We are still working through the various associated external reporting changes that may be made in relation to this shift and will provide more perspective on the June quarter-end call. 

 Overall, though, we've come a long way in a fairly short period of time.  We are back on track to being a company that generates reliable and predictable growth in sales, earnings and cash flow. 

 Now that concludes the business comments of the call.  As you know, this discussion has included a number of forward-looking statements. If you will refer to our most recent 10(k) and 8(k) reports, you will see a discussion of the factors that could cause the company's actual results differ materially from these projections. 

 Now at this, AG, Juan Pedro and I would be happy to take your questions. 

 OPERATOR:  Thank you, sir. 

 The question and answer session will be conducted electronically.  If you'd like to ask a question, please signal us now by pressing star-one on your telephone keypad.  In fairness to our participants, we do ask that you limit yourself to one question.  And, again, it's star-one to ask a question. 

 We'll go first to Wendy Nicholson (ph) with (inaudible). 

 WENDY NICHOLSON (ph):  Hi.  Good morning. 

 CLAY DALEY:  Good morning, Wendy. 

 WENDY NICHOLSON (ph):  My first question is on Clairol. 

 I know you mentioned that the colorants business, the marketshares, have been under pressure from competitive activity.  But it sounds like integration is going great, and I'm wondering when should we start to see marketshares meaningfully start to pick up in that business.  When does the new product (inaudible) start to kick in, so that we can determine whether that acquisition is sort of a success on the topline? 

 AG LAFLEY:  Wendy, this is AG.  Three things.  One thing that I'm particularly pleased about in the integration so far is that we've done a terrific job of retaining the experience, the competence, the capability that resides in Clairol management and Clairol people.  And our leadership team at Clairol is a majority of Clairol professionals. So I think that bodes well for a fast start-up. 

 Second point, to answer your question more directly, I think you'll see the hair care side of the business, shampoo colorants et cetera, benefiting from P&G's focus and P&G's attention and frankly from just getting on our price list and being sold by sales organization in key countries. 

 We bought a very strong brand in Herbal Essences.  We think we'll find one or two jewels in the rest of the portfolio.  So I would expect us to be (inaudible) progress in the next six months or so.  There's obviously a lead time (inaudible) customers, but for sure in the next six to nine months. 

 On colorants, we've said all along it's going to take us a little while to really learn this business.  We've all been through the innovation programs, the technologies we hope to bring to bear in this market.  And I think in that business you'll see us be competitive to repaying the loyalty of our current Clairol customers in the near-term. Next six to twelve months, and you'll see our innovation begin to come to market in the next calendar year. 

 WENDY NICHOLSON (ph):  And in terms of brand extension of Pantene hair coloring, that's probably 12 months away as well? 

 AG LAFLEY:  Strategies are being fought through, worked through, debated, and discussed.  It's premature. 

 UNIDENTIFIED:  No comment on that one. 

 WENDY NICHOLSON (ph):  OK.  Fine, and then just a last question.  I think you mentioned Latin America was offset by some stronger results elsewhere, but can you talk about what you're doing in Latin America? How your shares are tracking?  Is it just general economic weakness, or is your business under pressure?lafley:  No, actually our Latin America business is in pretty good shape.  We're doing well in Mexico: we have a strong business there and it's growing across most of our categories and brands.  We're making progress with marketshare growth in Brazil.  We've just had a couple of setbacks in Argentina and Venezuela, which are important markets for us. 

 In Argentina, we were growing our shares, and we were actually making money last year before the political and economic crisis hit.  And so, obviously, it's kind of back to go for all competitors in that market. In Venezuela, that's an important business for us.  And again, we're building our market shares.  But we've gone through a rough patch here over the last four to six weeks with the political uncertainty. 

 WENDY NICHOLSON (ph):  Fair enough.  Sounds great.  Thanks. 

 UNIDENTIFIED:  OK. 

 OPERATOR:  We'll move next to Jim Gingrich with Sanford Bernstein. 

 JIM GINGRICH, SANFORD BERNSTEIN:  Good morning.  I guess first, Clay, can you give us a sense -- I mean, you talked a bit about the fact that Clairol effectively -- I guess you had a 60 basis point penalty on the MR&A (ph) line.  Can you kind of give us a sense as to how the portfolio shift, as well as the marketing spend, impacted that line as well? 

 CLAY DALEY:  Well, I think that we dimensionalized the Clairol impact. And as... 

 JIM GINGRICH:  Which, if I did the math right, is about 60 basis points, right? 

 CLAY DALEY:  That's correct.  And I think beyond that, what we're seeing is some increase in marketing spend as well in that line, that is partially offsetting the significant savings that we're getting from the restructuring on the selling, research and admin. 

 JIM GINGRICH:  OK, let me ask the question the other way.  What type of savings are we seeing at this point from the restructuring that has taken place, and, you know, how is that going to flow then over the next couple of quarters? 

 AG LAFLEY:  Jim, this is A.G.  On the SR & A side we are meeting or beating our goals for savings.  OK.  On an annual and, for all practical purposes, on a quarter-by-quarter basis.  So that one's on track. 

 On the asset restructuring and business restructuring, again, you know, we're on track for our savings.  What you're seeing on the marketing side is, we have over the past three, six, nine months, a number of innovations.  New brands and categories, you know, new product upgrades and line extensions on our lead brands.  And we are in the introductory phase, and we are running the normal awareness and trial activities.  So that's just appropriate support. 

 JIM GINGRICH:  OK.  Fair enough.  The other question that I was concerned about is, you know, on the price mix trends that we're seeing in the business right now -- I mean, I understand that a good chunk of this is effectively you passing through lower material costs.  On the other hand, you know, as I look at some of the volume trends of your competitors, I also know they're not particularly happy about the type of volume trends, you know, they're putting on the board. 

 And so I guess the question I've got is that as, presumably, we start to see material costs go up in 2003, are we really going to be able to see the type of dial back in promotional activity that's going on? 

 CLAY DALEY (?):  OK.  Jim, I'd guess I say three things:  One, the mix within our categories and within our business units is pretty good, and, in general, positive.  And it reflects the ability to lead innovation and to bring the kinds of products, like Olay daily facials, Pampers baby stages development, you know, the Crest Whitestrips and Spinbrush and all of those kinds of products that enable -- give the consumer a better experience at a premium price. So that looks pretty good. 

 On the question of commodity pricing, the two areas where the path through is director or where the commodities are really commodities, green bean coffee and pulp (inaudible) business.  And the choice that we've made and the industries in both cases have made is, in an uncertain period of commodity pricing, it's more effective and more efficient to pass it through with, quote-unquote, "temporary price reduction." 

 OK?  But that will move the other way if those markets move the other way.  In other words, the prices will go right back up and that's --you know, we, I think, have been very predictable and we have been very clear about what our strategy is.  You know, we pass green bean prices through when they're going up and when they're going down. 

 The third thing I would say is, Clairol, obviously, is part of the mix issue here.  And the other thing -- the last thing that you're seeing is, as we show some real strength in some of the developing parts of the world -- central and eastern Europe, China, Mexico -- you know, that's going to have a negative mixed effect, because the revenue per case is a bit lower in those markets. 

 CLAY DALEY:  As we said in the call, of the 3 percent negative mix, two out of three are explained by Clairol and the commodity efforts. And so, really it's only the 1 percent residual that still is some of the structural pricing corrections we made and aren't (ph) yet fully analyzed.  And as Juan Pedro indicated in his comments, some real mix effects relative to both developing markets and some of the products, particularly within health care that are growing that tend to be priced below the company average. 

 CLAY DALEY (?):  OK.  Great.  Thanks. 

 OPERATOR:  We'll go now to Amy Chasen (ph) with Goldman Sachs. 

 AMY CHASEN (ph), GOLDMAN SACHS:  Hi.  Good morning.  A couple of things.  Just, first, on the gross margin expansion, Clay, you said two-thirds of it was due to a combination of restructuring, raw material costs and the like, can you break that down a little bit more and tell us how much of it was actually restructuring savings? 

 CLAY DALEY:  Well, the extra color I can give you here is think about the thing as a third, a third, a third.  OK?  The third in the gross margin mix effect; about a third being restructuring related; and then the other third being everything else that we talked about going on in gross margin volume, cost reduction programs being implemented by the business unit that aren't related to restructuring. 

 AMY CHASEN (ph):  OK.  All right.  Great.  So that third from restructuring, this is basically -- correct me if I'm wrong -- the first quarter where we're seeing a significant benefit from the restructuring, so presumably that should accelerate over the next several quarters, is that fair? 

 CLAY DALEY:  It's growing.  It's growing quarter to quarter.  We certainly have had benefits in the prior quarters and in the gross margin expansions we've seen in the two prior quarters.  But we're certainly seeing it building incrementally. 

 AMY CHASEN (ph):  And when should that peak? 

 CLAY DALEY:  Well, we are in the big year of this year.  The maximum restructuring savings are this year, but they will continue through the next two fiscal years, but at a lower incremental level. 

 AMY CHASEN (ph):  OK.  Great.  Cap-X, are you now suggesting that, you know, 5 percent is the right number and not six? 

 CLAY DALEY:  No.  I don't think we are.  We think we're going to hit five this year, but there are some things going on this year that may or may not be, you know, repeatable long-term.  We've added virtually no capacity this year.  We've had enough capacity in all of our baseline products, in tissue and in the other lines, and so it's just a question long-term as to what the right goal should be.  But we are thinking in terms of the fact that it's going to be south of six. 

 AG LAFLEY:  Amy, I guess I'd just say one other thing.  We're continuously benchmarking the best in our countries, and frankly we're going out and talking to companies from other industries who do an outstanding job in this area.  And I think we're going to have a moving target over the next year or two as we get smarter about what's possible. 

 But I think it's going to be below six, and the only question is where it's going to come in.  And we'll build it up by business unit. 

 AMY CHASEN (ph):  OK.  Great.  I just have two other quick things. Western Europe, can you just give us a sense of what type of volume trends you're seeing there? 

 AG LAFLEY:  Improving. 

 CLAY DALEY (?):  Low singles. 

 AG LAFLEY:  Low singles, improving, not where we believe we can get or where we want to be.  But kind of continuous steady improvements. 

 AMY CHASEN (ph):  OK.  And can you talk about both diapers and feminine hygiene in both the U.S. and in Europe.  Just give us a sense of share trends, the IRI data's increasingly unreliable given its lack of coverage. 

 AG LAFLEY:  Yes.  Our share trends in baby diapers in North America are steady, slowly but surely up.  As we've talked before, Amy, the big initiative that's literally just been sold in and just appearing in retail stores and we're getting early trial on is the baby stage of developments initiative in North America. 

 It has done very well in the lead markets in Europe.  That segment has about doubled in the U.K. and France.  In the U.K. and France, our marketshares are kind of 51ish in the U.K. and 41ish in France, which are good shares and, you know, obviously up. 

 I think the big issue is how many moms are going to try the newer products, how delighted are they going to be with the products, and are these products going to represent good value but the first six months in Europe, and the first few weeks in the U.S. are encouraging. 

 AMY CHASEN (ph):  Are you saying that your share in diapers in North America is up on a year-over-year basis or sequentially? 

 AG LAFLEY:  Year over year for sure.  And we look at all channel, Amy, because of the coverage issue that you raised.  So that is -- we look at All Channel and we look at rolling three, six, and 12 month shares.  And it is up. 

 AMY CHASEN (ph):  O.K.  Great, and then just quickly on feminine hygiene, can you talk about the same thing? 

 AG LAFLEY:  Yes.  The story on feminine hygiene is we don't like the topline performance in general.  We know we can do better.  The bottom line performance has been pretty doggone good, because they've done a great job on cost savings.  Having said that, in the most recent period, our fem care (ph) shares in the U.S. and in Western Europe are stabilizing and actually up a couple of ticks (ph). 

 The other thing that I will say is you're starting to see the early entries in our innovation program.  We have a product called Naturella in Mexico which has just been introduced.  We have a product called Pearl (ph) in Tampax which is in test-market, and you'll see more innovation out of this business in the year or two ahead. 

 JUAN PEDRO HERNANDEZ (?):  If I may (inaudible), we are growing our (inaudible) business in Japan nicely and we have built in our (inaudible) business very nicely, too, in China, where we are the clear-cut market leaders in this (inaudible). 

 UNIDENTIFIED:  OK? 

 AMY CHASEN (ph):  OK, thank you. 

 UNIDENTIFIED:  Thanks, Amy. 

 OPERATOR:  Carol Loogie (ph) with Merrill Lynch. 

 CAROL LOOGIE (ph), MERRILL LYNCH:  Oh, on the last quarter conference call, you told us -- and it was very helpful -- what your take-away was in the IRI measured and the not measured to give us an idea since the data that we all get is very limited.  Could you do that again for this quarter? 

 JUAN PEDRO HERNANDEZ:  Well, I think what we said last quarter was that there was a spread between our volume as measured by IRI in our actual volume that was running very routinely in the 4 to 5 percentage point range.  Now, are you looking for something more than that? 

 CAROL LOOGIE (ph):  I was just curious about your total North American volumes. 

 JUAN PEDRO HERNANDEZ:  Yes, I think that's... 

 UNIDENTIFIED:  Carol, while Juan Pedro's looking that up, it's difficult to generalize across businesses because our coverage varies pretty dramatically across businesses.  But if you think about our company, you know, we are predominantly a personal care, health care and beauty care company and a relatively small percentage of our sales is in beverages and snacks.  Therefore, you know, as a result, you know, the coverage can be as low as 30 percent sometimes in some of our categories. 

 I track sequential trends, you know, across the key brands and the key countries and in the key customers, and our volume trends in the U.S. -- this is on a past 12-, 6- and 3-month basis -- are improving.  And on a past 12-month basis is a 106 in the U.S. and a past 6-month basis were a 110 and on a past 3-month basis were a 115.  Now the past three months, obviously, is against, you know, relatively a weaker base a year ago. 

 And then if you look at the customers across the U.S., without going into each one, you know, our trends are improving at most of our major customers. 

 CAROL LOOGIE (ph):  Thanks.  Just one other quick question. 

 On the diaper business, I mean, your baby segment development clearly loosened your share in Europe.  Are you expecting a more aggressive or more, I guess, challenging response from your main competitors to the launch in the U.S., because it doesn't sound like that whatever was launched had much impact to thwart your launch?  Are you, know, assuming it's going to be tough for this in the U.S.? 

 UNIDENTIFIED:  Well, Carol, we always assume we're going to get a warm response from competitors regardless of category and especially in baby care.  Their response has been pretty warm in the U.S.  I think they hit us with a "buy one - get one free" bonus pack... 

 UNIDENTIFIED:  ... in the fall and... 

 UNIDENTIFIED:  A pretty heavy barrage of coupons. 

 UNIDENTIFIED:  And the last time I looked, there was about $8 worth of coupon offers.  So the reception has been reasonably warm.  I mean, obviously, when we're in the launch of a new product or a new product line, in this case, that we think moms will respond to, we try to stay focused on generating awareness in trial and, you know, at least give the consumer the chance to try the product. 

 See whether she likes it, whether it works for her, her child, and then make up her own mind.  So obviously, the competitors would like to reduce the trial and, or slow down the trial.  But that's really what it's all about. 

 CAROL LOOGIE (ph):  I guess, I meant more from a product innovation standpoint. 

 CLAY DALEY (?):  Product innovation, I'm sure we'll see a response. You know, I'm sure we'll see a response.  And again, it's expected. 

 CAROL LOOGIE (ph):  OK.  Did Juan Pedro get those numbers or should I call him back? 

 CLAY DALEY:  Yes, call him back.  That would be best. 

 CAROL LOOGIE (ph):  OK.  Thanks. 

 CLAY DALEY:  Thanks, Carol. 

 OPERATOR:  Next up is Connie Meneedy (ph) with Prudential Securities. 

 CONNIE MENEEDY (ph), PRUDENTIAL SECURITIES:  Hi.  Good morning.  It seems to me your cash flow is stronger than what you had budgeted, so what are your plans for it? 

 CLAY DALEY:  Well, in the short-term we've got a fair amount of debt, and so we have an opportunity, post-Clairol, to reduce some debt.  And as I think you know, Connie, we have committed to repurchasing our stock option grant and doing other discretionary stock repurchase as we have cash available. 

 Although, you know, we're always also looking for, you know, acquisitions that make sense long-term.  And, you know, while we've just obviously done a big one with Clairol and our, you know, needing, of course to digest that one, we're always out there looking for smaller ones.  Now, we'd love to find a few more like Spinbrush. 

 CONNIE MENEEDY (ph):  OK.  And secondly, I think these changes at the upper management level are pretty exciting.  But what I'd also like to find out some more about, have you made any internal process changes so that P&G bureaucracy doesn't rip people up later on?  I mean, is it easier to get things done at P&G now than it was, and can you give us some examples? 

 AG LAFLEY (?):  That's a great question, because, you know, I think what we're seeing here is a combination of more strategic choice and focus, and that's where it begins.  It begins at the company level and then it extends into the business unit level. 

 The second thing we're seeing is strength in systems, and I'm talking about operating systems that drive the business.  And I won't go into a lot of detail here, but we have a system that we've, you know, sort of invented for driving our innovation program all the way through to product launch. 

 And I think we're just getting much more disciplined with it.  We have a system that we use to take our products and our brands and our initiatives to customers in the marketplace, and we're just getting more disciplined in the use of it. 

 We have definitely driven the concept of total shareholder return, cash flow return on investment, across the business.  We use it to help with our strategic choices.  We use it to make planned choices on a year-out basis.  And frankly, it's one of the two measures that drive the compensation for the top management of the company with earnings per share growth. 

 I think we have clearer and stronger accountability.  I think we're getting better at managing the connections and the coordination between market development operation and GDU.  I mean, I have to tell you I've always felt that market development operation was frankly the novel and highest potential piece of our new organization structure. And I think what you're seeing in results from Russia to Poland to Latin America to China and in the U.S. is where we've gotten our sea legs. 

 We're beginning to figure out how to really make it go in the marketplace, and it's in the market where the consumer shops and where we  compete and where the consumer uses our branded products.  So it's a whole series of things, but they need to be integrated.  They need to be coordinated, and they need to be driven by the leadership of the company.  Because those are the folks who are accountable. 

 Great.  Thanks. 

 CAROL LOOGIE (ph):  Thank you. 

 OPERATOR:  We'll take our next question from Sally Desktop (ph) with JP Morgan. 

 SALLY (ph), JP MORGAN:  Yes, good morning.  I had a couple of follow-ups on Clairol and then something on raw material.  First of all, with respect to Clairol and the negative mix issue that we saw in this quarter, it sounds like some of tthat is because the base period comparison was difficult.  And beauty care and then the bulk of it was Clairol.  Should we expect the negative mix effect in the June quarter to moderate somewhat if we get that past (inaudible) period comparison? 

 CLAY DALEY (?):  No, actually the phenomenon on Clairol is we brought all this new beauty care volume into the company that is priced averagely below our existing beauty care business.  So it's bringing more cases in volume than it is bringing sales dollars on a proportionate basis.  And that's what's creating the mix effect. 

 AG LAFLEY:  Sally, if you think about our current beauty care business, it ranges from several hundred million dollars worth of SK2 prestige skin care business that the opening price point for SK2S is $145.  OK? 

 UNIDENTIFIED:  (inaudible) 

 AG LAFLEY:  And we have a good size fine fragrance business which sells at, you know, $30, $40, $50 price points.  And then, we have in self-selector mask, you know, Olay with its Total Effects line and daily facials, you know, really sells some of its line at the top of mass (ph).  So most of the Clairol items are sold at the middle or low end of mass pricing. 

 SALLY (ph):  Right.  I understand that.  I just thought maybe I misunderstood in the prepared remarks.  I thought there was also some component in that negative mix that related to the launch of Total Effects last year, so that the mix... 

 CLAY DALEY:  That is true, too. 

 SALLY (ph):  But that will annualize. 

 CLAY DALEY:  That should annualize in the next quarter. 

 UNIDENTIFIED:  Two quarters. 

 SALLY (ph):  OK.  So maybe we'll see another kind of six to seven point in the June quarter and then it'll moderate from there. 

 JUAN PEDRO HERNANDEZ:  Probably, yes. 

 SALLY (ph):  Great.  That was my question.  And then, you know, in all the news that we're hearing about Bristol Myers these days, I'm wondering if you're seeing anything in the Clairol business that's at all a surprise to you?  And I'm thinking in particularly of, you know, what the trade inventory position might look like with Clairol relative to what you're going in expectation was? 

 AG LAFLEY:  No.  No surprises there.  And, you know, Sally, I think that business was run pretty autonomously. 

 CLAY DALEY:  I mean, we've talked about the issues that the basic hair care business is in pretty good shape.  The color rinse, as we've been very clear, a little bit weak.  But pre-closing, they really did run the business plan, so. 

 SALLY (ph):  OK.  Great.  And then, finally, you talked a little bit about the commodity prices, like pulp and coffee beans, and how you have --you're pretty nimble and able to kind of reverse if those costs start to creep up in pulling back some of the promotional spending. I'm curious about energy costs, though, because thinking back two years ago when energy costs were on the run that did have an effect on P&G's margins.  And I'm wondering, you know, what you see right now on the horizon and how quickly you can adapt the business, and I would think in particular this would effect fabric and home care? 

 CLAY DALEY:  Well, it effects fabric and home care, also it's a big impact in paper, particularly tissue business that's a heavy user of natural gas.  And we're seeing, you know, energy prices that effect those businesses right now is pretty flat, particularly gas.  And therefore, we don't see any major impact in the near future. 

 AG LAFLEY:  I guess the other thing I'd say, Sally, is, you know, we're always working as hard as we can to find -- you know, to negotiate as well as we can in to favorable contracts, you know, whatever the duration of the contract is; sometimes long-term is better, sometimes (inaudible) term is better. 

 The other thing that I would say that I'm pleased about is virtually all the businesses now have pretty robust cost-savings programs going. And without going into all the details, and they have a little bit different strategy depending on the industry and depending on the business, particularly in fabric and home care an din our paper businesses, you know, these are starting to kick in. 

 And we believe that there are significant savings available on an ongoing basis in purchasing.  And we also believe there are additional savings available to us in the supply chain.  And we believe there are additional savings that will be available to us in continuing to streamline our organization or generate more sales off the same organization size. 

 SALLY (ph):  So, if I hear you correctly, if resin costs and (inaudible) costs start to climb, you think that your cost savings program should allow you to offset that? 

 JUAN PEDRO HERNANDEZ:  What we have seen is a huge opportunity derived from the new organizational structure.  By having the capability to access to a global purchases of materials and through having the much more standardized formulas across the globe.  We have seen tremendous cost saving opportunities coming out from that. 

 SALLY (ph):  And if I could, just one strategic question, I guess I hear what you're doing with the fem care business, moving it into the beauty care.  Could you elaborate on what you see as the strategic fit between feminine care and beauty care because it's not obvious to me? 

 AG LAFLEY:  Yes, it begins with the consumer experience, and it's clearly much more of a feminine product.  Much more of a personal care product all the details of design of the product and the package are incredibly important part of consumer acceptance, and a delightful consumer experience.  And most of our retailers, the fem care business in the same vine root as the personal care and beauty care items, not in the household group where the tissue-towel products are bought. 

 On the product innovation side, while we'll continue to draw much of our technology from the paper side and from corporate, there are a number of technologies we have developed or are developing in beauty care and health care which we believe will be leveragable in fem care. 

 And finally, we think we've developed some go-to-market capabilities. With the GDU (ph) and in the MBOs (ph), that will enable us to drive a stronger execution at store level, and a stronger execution in market. And I guess I would say one more thing: in the paper world, diapers and tissue towel are so big that sometimes fem care can't get the attention that we would all like it to have. 

 And the beauty care world we're used to.  We've learned how to handle a lot more categories and to give attention to $100 million businesses and to give attention to $500 million and a billion dollar businesses. And that's probably a beauty care and health care capability that we just don't have as highly developed in the other businesses. 

 SALLY (ph):  O.K.  That's helpful.  Thanks, A.G. 

 OPERATOR:  Ann Gillen (ph) with Lehman Brothers. 

 ANN GILLEN (ph), LEHMAN BROTHERS:  Just follow up on some of the cost-cutting efforts still to come.  If I look at segments' profitability over the last five years, fabric and home care is trending back up at peak levels.  And so are I guess food and health care are close, but the paper business is failing even with fem care. And the beauty care businesses both like they're both significantly below trends. 

 I'm wondering if you can comment on whether that's where the focus of efforts is going forward. 

 AG LAFLEY:  Well, Ann.  A couple of comments.  There's no doubt that there's opportunity for margin and profit improvement in baby care. And I think that we believe that the -- job one was to create products that connected with consumers and really made their lives better and that's why we've been focusing on the premium-stretch line and now the baby-stage of development line and why we're focused on "better every day diapers" around the world.  So that's the first step. 

 The second step is to demonstrate that we can grow our market shares and we can improve our mix in the business.  And then, of course, the third step is to make sure that we can do all this in a better way, but also in a lower cost way.  And you're going to see the benefit of replatforming baby care in the years ahead.  I mean, we are 75 or 80 percent of the way through that installation.  We complete it, for the most part, next year.  It is enabling faster, broader innovation and we are also seeing lower costs than we expected and I think that's terrific. 

 The same is going on in tissue-towel.  We're having a good year in tissue-towel but we're coming off a couple of weak years, and I think you will see us continue to improve there.  Our shares are growing, we're back leading innovation and -- and I want to underline and --and we're driving -- we're filling up our capacity and we're driving costs out that the consumer and the shareholder shouldn't have to pay for. 

 So those are, obviously, two areas of attention. 

 In beauty care, I'll just quickly comment in beauty care.  I think in beauty care, what you're seeing is as we have learned the business, as we have a choiceful strategy in place, as we're executing our branding and our innovation and our marketing better, our margins are fine, thank you very much. 

 We just don't have every business yet hitting on all cylinders.  So we're working our way through.  I think we've talked about this before. We started with hair care and skin care.  We like where we are in hair care.  We like where we're heading in skin care.  We've had some great success in fragrance.  And you'll see the other businesses are just going to keep coming. 

 JUAN PEDRO HERNANDEZ:  The other thing in beauty care is, obviously, we've got Clairol in now at a level without synergies.  And number two, our hair care business was very well developed in some of the developing markets that have had their ups and downs over the last couple of years. But as AG said, we're very bullish on the prospects of beauty care margins going forward. 

 ANN GILLEN (ph):  That's very helpful.  And then, AG, lastly on the 100 general managers.  Can you just comment on the tenure of the 100 general managers?  Or whether you're seeing... 

 AG LAFLEY:  Ann, I don't know it off the top of my head.  I'll just say a couple of things. 

 One is just three years ago we had closer to 140 to 150 general managers.  And I think as we've worked with this organization structure, we've realized that, you know, we need the right amount and the right amount looks like it's about 100.  The second thing I would say is we have a great mix of experience and leadership. 

 These individuals -- many of them have worked in multiple countries and multiple categories.  They've been in businesses over the last few years that they're focused on.  They're going to stay in for a while. They're going to drive to their full potential.  And I just think we have a really strong cadre of general managers in the P&G world right now. 

 ANN GILLEN (ph):  OK.  Thanks. 

 JUAN PEDRO HERNANDEZ:  Thank you. 

 OPERATOR:  We'll go now to Andrew McClain (ph) with UBS Warburg. 

 ANDREW MCCLAIN (ph), UBS WARBURG:  Thanks very much. 

 A couple of questions about Europe.  It sounds like Europe is getting better.  Could you talk about overall volumes in the region?  And you also mentioned that shares were up in two categories, stable in two. Can you mention the share gains in which categories were up? 

 AG LAFLEY:  Yes.  First, on the volume improvement, it's low single digits and, you know, we were stalled a couple of years ago.  We grew very modestly last year and we're growing a little bit faster this year. And the simple way to think about it is U.K. and France are strong, you know, Spain and Italy are steady and Germany is getting a lot of attention because that's been a tough market.  And I would add, not just for us.  It's been a tough market in general. 

 And we've got a strategy and I think our plans are fairly evident. We've just introduced Charmin.  We're focused on our big paper business and our other bigger businesses in that market -- fabric care and hair care. 

 Regarding market shares, our fabric care business is basically flat. Our home care business is up.  Our hair care business is basically flat. Fem care and baby care are up. 

 ANDREW MCCLAIN (ph):  Terrific.  And I guess the other striking, you know, thing from the quarter was your Dawn business -- how much of the volume growth in the fabric and home business came from Dawn growth? 

 AG LAFLEY:  Well, in the LDL business, OK, in the dishwashing liquid business... 

 ANDREW MCCLAIN (ph):  Yes. 

 AG LAFLEY:  ... about 80 to 90 percent of it came from Dawn.  But I think the point there is -- I think our strategy is choiceful and prioritized in dish care.  I think, as we do in a number of our portfolio businesses, we try to increase the share and broaden the appeal and strengthen the appeal of our leading brand, in this case it's Dawn. 

 I think we're back leading innovation and I think we're back executing with real excellence with customers.  And, you know, we have very robust shares in dish care in the U.S., and the trend has been strong, you know, over the last 12, 6 and 3 months.  So it isn't just a last three month phenomena.  So I'm optimistic about that business. 

 ANDREW MCCLAIN (ph):  AG, the Dawn initiative, is it mainly North America, though, or is this going on in Europe also? 

 AG LAFLEY:  Well, Dawn is basically only sold in the U.S. 

 ANDREW MCCLAIN (ph):  Got it.  Thank you. 

 AG LAFLEY:  We sell Ferry (ph) and other brands around the world. 

 ANDREW MCCLAIN (ph):  Got it.  And how about one question on the Clairol dilution?  Did you say what it was for the whole quarter? 

 JUAN PEDRO HERNANDEZ:  We did not say. 

 ANDREW MCCLAIN (ph):  Will you say? 

 JUAN PEDRO HERNANDEZ:  Well, we're not disclosing that right now. 

 ANDREW MCCLAIN (ph):  All right.  Terrific.  Well, congratulations on a nice quarter. 

 AG LAFLEY:  Thank you. 

 JUAN PEDRO HERNANDEZ:  Thank you. 

 OPERATOR:  We'll now go to Morgan Stanley's Catherine Lewis. 

 CATHERINE LEWIS, MORGAN STANLEY:  Thank you. 

 Yes, just a real quick one on cap ex in '03.  I know you're still in your planning stage, but do you have a sense of which projects next year will give you the highest return?  And I guess I'm thinking, you know, more specifically by, you know, business segment and geography. 

 JUAN PEDRO HERNANDEZ:  Well, I think both this year and next year we are in the process of completing the replatforming of our baby care business, which clearly we have expectations not only to deliver lower costs, but very importantly, to systematically get the capital cost of the baby care business down going forward as we move through our innovation cycle.  That's probably the biggest single driver. 

 AG LAFLEY:  And then I guess the other thing I would say is in businesses like tissue-towel and fabric care, we've had a real focus on capacity utilization -- filling up what we've got and getting more out of each machine, out of each process.  And, you know, those tend to be the higher capital businesses for us.  Most of our health care and beauty care businesses are low capital businesses. 

 CATHERINE LEWIS:  OK.  And then just lastly on acquisitions and disposals.  You know, you touched a little bit on free cash flow and you're very focused on Clairol right now.  Has the -- you know, just with respect to acquisitions, has the deal environment become more attractive?  You know, it seems like beauty care has been a big focus of yours.  You know, what's your game plan with respect to acquisitions going forward?  And then on disposals, is food and beverage still a key area of focus? 

 JUAN PEDRO HERNANDEZ:  Yes.  I wouldn't necessarily characterize the deal environment as having changed, per se.  I do really believe that we have gotten better at acquisitions in terms of both the discipline on what we pay and our ability to integrate and deliver the savings and then be able to grow the business. 

 So in that context I think there -- you know, we're simply getting better at this. 

 A.G., you might want to comment... 

 AG LAFLEY:  Yeah, Catherine, the one thing I would say is when we're thinking about acquisitions, we're trying to think, strategy, strategy, strategy and long-term, long-term, long-term.  So we obviously have made some choices which we can't talk about and won't talk about around areas that we think are strategic for us.  And we're always thinking about that. 

 So I guess the second thing I would say is, usually the timing of acquisitions are outside of our control.  We are not a company that does hostile takeovers.  So we, you know, we pretty much have to stay alert, stay aware, stay in touch where it makes sense, and then the timing's often dictated by the other party. 

 And the third thing I would say, which Clay mentioned earlier, we really are actively searching for what I would call small, early-stage opportunities.  You know, SpinBrush is an obvious example.  This INGAP diabetes drug that we just announced a partnership in is another great example.  And we think those kinds of early-stage inventions or discoveries are a good match for us if they're in a capability area or a strategic area, because we think we're pretty good at developing brands and in qualifying em for the marketplace. 

 CATHERINE LEWIS:  OK.  And just on disposals, should we expect more activity there?  Do you envision, say, rekindling some of the JB (ph) discussions? 

 AG LAFLEY:  The focus in beverage and snacks is on building the current brands.  And I'm very pleased with what Jorge Montoya (ph) and his whole team have done, improving the financial performance, improving the cost structure, and focusing on strategies on those brands. 

 You know, we've got a great brand in Folger's, we've made real progress in Millstone (ph).  They're looking at opportunities to accelerate growth a bit on the top line, because the margins and the cash flow is terrific. 

 In Pringles, we've stabilized.  We're starting to see some growth in some parts of the world.  We still think we have a very unique snack that has real appeal with many consumers.  And the focus is on growing that brand organically.  And the same goes for Sunny Delight. 

 UNIDENTIFIED:  And, as I think we said in the guidance for next year, we are anticipating disposal nonoperating profits to be even lower than this year's reduced level. 

 CATHERINE LEWIS:  OK.  Great.  Thank you very much. 

 OPERATOR:  Bill Steele, with Bank of America.  Please go ahead. 

 BILL STEELE, BANK OF AMERICA:  Thanks. 

 Clay, could you tell us what Clairol sales were down year-over year? 

 CLAY DALEY:  I believe, around -- I want to say about 5 percent, Bill, mid-singles, probably. 

 BILL STEELE:  Mid-singles?  OK, great.  And Clay, are you still targeting restructuring savings for '02 of about $700 million? 

 CLAY DALEY:  $600, $600 to $700, that's about it. 

 BILL STEELE:  And then the last real quick question is, the corporate expense line item on earnings before taxes of $149 million -- I'm having a hard time projecting that.  Could you kind of explain what was in that number? 

 CLAY DALEY:  I'm sorry, Bill.  You're on the corporate? 

 BILL STEELE:  Yes, on the corporate.  Earnings before taxes was a negative $149 million.  And you know, up, let's say, year-over-year substantially, and even sequentially, and I'm just kind of wondering what's in that. 

 CLAY DALEY:  Well, of course, that's all below the operating line items that don't get consolidated into the business unit results.  And so we've got JB's (ph) and various other activities that go in there. And whether (inaudible) those bounce around a little bit from quarter to quarter. 

 And about all I can tell you in terms of projecting that is you're right, it is higher in the Jan-March quarter than it has been average the year to date.  And so I think projecting it into the fourth quarter, I would simply assume it's about average of what it's been so far this year. 

 BILL STEELE:  OK.  Very helpful.  Thank you.operator:  We'll go now with Andrew Shore (ph) with Deutsche Bank. 

 ANDREW SHORE (ph), DEUTSCHE BANK:  Good morning. 

 CLAY DALEY:  You're back! 

 ANDREW SHORE (ph):  Well, you know, you can't separate me from Mom for too long. 

 No, I'm not really back.  Clay, I've got two questions.  First, are you smiling, finally?  For number two, you just said savings were $600 to $700 million for this year.  I assume that the fourth quarter will be a higher run rate for savings, since this quarter you had $105 million, and, you know, the four-quarter average them would be about $160 or so? 

 CLAY DALEY:  We didn't cite a specific number.  What we said was... 

 ANDREW SHORE (ph):  I'm just taking a third of the two-thirds. 

 CLAY DALEY:  Yes, but that's just in the gross margin. 

 ANDREW SHORE (ph):  OK. 

 CLAY DALEY:  So there's a component of the restructuring savings in gross margin and there's a component in the MR&A (ph) line.  And we have not exactly quantified that.  But still, coming back to your point, which is a correct one, is clearly restructuring savings to build throughout the year.  That is true. 

 And I am smiling, Andrew. 

 ANDREW SHORE (ph):  All right, good.  Thanks.  I appreciate it.  Bye. 

 CLAY DALEY:  Thank you. 

 OPERATOR:  That is all the time we have for questions today. Gentlemen, I'll go ahead and turn the call back to you for any additional or closing remarks. 

 CLAY DALEY:  Thanks again for joining us.  In the interest of some of the feedback we've got on the last quarter, we did try to reduce the length of the comments and try to keep the Q & A period a little tighter.  And as I said at the outset, John Goodwin, Juan Pedro and I will be available throughout the balance of the day to answer any additional questions, follow ups that you have.  So thanks very much for joining us today. 

 OPERATOR:  With that we'll conclude the day's conference.  Again, thank you, everyone, for your participation. 

 COPYRIGHT 2002 BY FDCH-eMedia, Inc. NO PORTION OF THIS TRANSCRIPTION MAY BE COPIED, SOLD OR RETRANSMITTED WITHOUT THE EXPRESS WRITTEN AUTHORITY OF FDCH-eMedia, Inc. 

   CO
prgml : The Procter & Gamble Company
   IN
i25 : Chemicals | i258 : Cosmetics/Toiletries | icnp : Consumer Products
   AN
Document fndw000020020913dy4u0048x
  


 HD
 Abstract of  Q3  2002  Procter  & Gamble Company Earnings Conference Call - Final 
   WC
7,860 words
   PD
30 April 2002
   ET
12:30 PM GMT
   SN
Financial Disclosure Wire
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
 (c) Copyright eMediaMillWorks, Inc. (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.). All Rights Reserved. 

   LP
 CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS 

 . Clayton Daley, CFO   . Alan Lafley, CEO   . John Goodwin, Director, IR   . Juan Hernandez, Treasurer 

   TD
 OVERVIEW 

 For PG, 3Q results were in line with the revised guidance and above consensus, delivering double-digit volume and core EPS growth for the company. The Q&A session talks mainly about the various brands of products. 

 FINANCIAL DATA 

 A. Key Data From Call   1. Diluted net EPS was $0.74 in the quarter. 2. Core net earnings, which exclude restructuring costs, were $0.84 per share.   3. Sales excluding foreign exchange were up 7% vs. year ago.   4. Volume increased 10% including Clairol, which added 4%.   5. Core operating income was up 22% with an operating margin at      nearly 19%.   6. The tax rate for the quarter is slightly below 32%.   7. The tax rate for the year is now expected to be slightly above      31%. 8. YTD free cash flow generation before dividends totaled $4.2b.   9. For the quarter, volume is forecasted to be up in the high      single digits.   10. P&G expects sales excluding foreign exchange to be up in the      mid singles for the quarter.   11. For the quarter, operating margin should be up about 100 basis      points.   12. In the quarter, operating income should be up in the high      single digits.   13. For the year, P&G anticipates a long-term sales growth rate of      4-6%. 14. Capital spending is expected to be less that 6% of sales for the fiscal year. 

 PRESENTATION SUMMARY 

 A. FINANCIAL RESULTS   1. The results for 3Q were in line with the revised guidance and      above consensus delivering double-digit volume and core EPS      growth for the company.   2. Diluted net EPS was $0.74 in the quarter including a $147m after      tax restructuring cost.   3. Core net earnings, which exclude restructuring costs, were $0.84 per share, up 12% vs. a year ago and a penny above the consensus estimate.   4. Sales excluding foreign exchange were up 7% vs. year ago.   5. FX negatively impacted the top line by 3% primarily due to weakness in the Euro, yen, and Argentinean peso.   6. Volume increased 10% including Clairol, which added 4%.   7. On a geographic basis, every regional market developmental      organization posted positive volume growth this quarter      excluding the impact of Clairol.   8. The developing markets of China and Central and Eastern Europe      are having particularly good years with both regions delivering double-digit volume growth offsetting political and economic turmoil in Latin America.   9. Pricing and mix were down 3% vs. year ago due to the past rule      of lower commodity costs to consumers primarily in coffee and      tissue, structural pricing adjustments in fabric and home care,      baby care, as well as mix effects.   10. The mix effects were primarily in beauty care behind the      Clairol integration.   11. Excluding Clairol and the pass through of commodity price      reductions, pricing and mix was down only 1%.   12. Core gross margin increased 310 basis points.   13. Roughly two-thirds of the improvement stems from higher volume,      lower underlying commodity costs, the benefit from plant      (Phonetic) restructuring projects, and other efficiency      improvements such as coordinated central purchasing, and      flexible formula developments.   14. The balance one-third of the gross margin improvement is      associated with the portfolio shift that is going on within the      company.   15. Core marketing research and administrative costs were up 30      basis points, which were driven by Clairol transition costs and      higher marketing spending behind both big established brands and      new brands and initiatives.   16. These increases have been largely offset by lower selling,      research and administrative costs behind savings from the      restructuring programs reduction (Indiscernible).   17. Absent (Phonetic) the Clairol effect, MR&A would have been down      by 30 basis points vs. being up 30.   18. Health and beauty care categories have higher levels of MR&A      spending than the balance of the portfolio.   19. The integration of Clairol is progressing well.   20. In the March quarter, P&G completed plans to consolidate the commercial function and it has begun work to integrate the manufacturing operation.   21. In May, virtually all Clairol products will be consolidated      into its current SAP (Phonetic) platform and Clairol products      will be shipped with P&G products out of common distribution      facilities.   22. Core operating income was up 22% with an operating margin at      nearly 19%.   23. The 280 basis point expansion of operating margin was driven by      particularly strong earnings improvement in fabric and home care      and healthcare businesses.   24. Non-operating income was significantly down vs. year ago by      about $185m, which was due to lower gains from minor brand divestitures as the base period included the gains from the sale of both the institutional shortening (Indiscernible) businesses      and the home care brands such as (Indiscernible) Spic n' Span (Phonetic).   25. This decrease was partially offset by lower interest expenses.   26. The tax rate for the quarter was slightly below 32%. 27. The tax rate for the year is now expected to be slightly above 31%.   28. YTD free cash flow generation before dividends totaled $4.2b,      more than double the first nine months in FY01.   29. Approximately, $700m of the cash flow improvement was due to      more efficient capital spending.   30. The remainder of the cash flow increase YTD is driven by higher      (Indiscernible) balances associated with the change in timing of      tax payments.   31. Of these tax related changes about $700m are largely      non-recurring improvements.   32. Cash flow productivity was once again over 100% significantly      above the target of 75%. 

 B. FABRIC AND HOME CARE   1. Volume grew 6% and sales were $2.8b, up 5%.   2. Volume growth was partially offset by consumer value adjustments      in Western Europe and Latin America.   3. Earnings of $472m were up 56% (Phonetic) behind sales growth,      strong cost saving program, and lower material prices.   4. The North American fabric and home care business was      particularly strong this quarter.   5. US (Indiscernible) delivering excellent results with past three      months (Indiscernible) share up 5.3 percentage points to (Indiscernible).   6. The Dawn brand contributed 4.9 percentage points of the growth.   7. (Indiscernible) vs. the nearest competitor by over 11 share      points.   8. The material savings have been achieved by moving to flexible      formulations that are able to take the advantage of changing      material availability and pricing. 

 C. HEALTH CARE   1. Volume was up 16% driven by a strong (Indiscernible) pharma, and      pet (Phonetic) health and nutrition sales.   2. Net sales were $1.2b, up 13% excluding a negative 2% exchange      impact.   3. Net earnings were $124m, up 36% vs. last year, reflecting volume      and sales growth of high margin items.   4. Oral care again delivered excellent volume results, up 30% with solid growth in all markets worldwide.   5. Continued the geographic expansion of Crest Spinbrush into      Japan, Turkey, and Greece in the March quarter.   6. Crest Spinbrush will be available in over 20 countries by the      end of this fiscal year.   7. Since acquiring the business in Jan. last year, cumulative sales      of Crest Spinbrush has totaled almost $200m.   8. In the US, P&G now has clear volume share leadership.   9. Volume share of the electronic toothbrush marketing (Indiscernible) is up nearly nine share points from last year.   10. Crest Whitestrips is already above $200m in cumulative sales      since launch in May last year.   11. Whitestrips was launched in Canada during the March quarter and      is off to a strong start.   12. Pharmaceuticals continued their strong growth with volume up      19% in this quarter.   13. Actonel led the progress (Phonetic) with past 12-month sales      already exceeding $300m globally.   14. The pet (Phonetic) health business also had a strong volume      quarter, up 8% vs. a year ago.   15. In the large US market, P&G is delivering its ninth consecutive      quarter of share growth. 

 D. BEAUTY CARE   1. This business unit delivered volume growth of 28% for the March      quarter.   2. Excluding acquisitions and divestitures, volume was up 4% led by      continued growth in hair care and fine fragrances.   3. Sales reached $2.1b, an increase of 21% excluding a 3% negative      foreign exchange impact.   4. Sales grew at a lower rate and volume due to mix.   5. The Clairol business curve has (Phonetic) lower unit revenue      than the balance of the beauty care business.   6. Sales excluding acquisitions and divestitures were up 1%.   7. Earnings were $269m, up 11%.   8. The hair care business excluding Clairol continued to show good      progress behind the latest round of initiatives.   9. In the US, Pantene and Head and Shoulders sales were up 15% and      17% respectively.   10. Fine fragrances volume was up 21% including the nearly acquired      (Indiscernible) La Coste brands.   11. A few of those fragrances franchise grew 47% during this      quarter behind the newer fragrances Deep Wit (Phonetic) and Dark      Blue.   12. The classic Hugo Boss green fragrance grew for the sixth      consecutive year since launch.   13. Cosmetics are also delivering strong results behind great      innovations and excellent goal-to-market (Phonetic) execution.   14. In North America, Cover Girl (Indiscernible) past six months      (Indiscernible) shares up by almost 80% (Phonetic) to 17.5%. 

 E. FOOD AND BEVERAGE   1. Unit volume was down 1%.   2. Sales of $879m were down 4% excluding a negative 1% foreign      exchange impact, but including 3% negative from the pass through      of lower green (Phonetic) coffee prices to consumers.   3. Earnings grew about 18% to $79m behind improvements in overhead      expenses and aggressive restructuring activities in      manufacturing. 

 F. BABY, FEMININE, AND FAMILY CARE   1. This segment posted volume gains of 4%.   2. Sales were $2.9b, a growth of 2% excluding a 3% impact from FX      (Phonetic).   3. Consumer pricing adjustments impacted the top line by negative      3%.   4. Earnings were $263m, up 11% behind a strong cost savings      progress across all categories.   5. Including the $263m earnings, is an $18m (Indiscernible) gain      related to a feminine care licensing transaction with the long      consolidated joint venture partner in Italy.   6. Excluding this one-time gain, earnings will have been up 4%      despite initial (Phonetic) investments behind the various stages      of development expansion. 7. Family care delivered another good volume quarter, up 7% with solid growth in North America, Western Europe and Mexico.   8. The feminine care business delivered improvements across all      elements of costs, posting solid earnings growth despite volume      declines of 1%.   9. Baby care has continued to deliver good results behind the various stages of development (Phonetic) launch.   10. Since expansion, P&G's premium segment shares in the UK and      France has nearly doubled. 

 G. MARKET SHARE   1. Jan.-March was a strong quarter for P&G.   2. P&G is positioned to grow consistently year in and year out 4-6%      sales, 10% EPS with robust free cash flow.   3. All global business units grew earnings for the second      consecutive quarter.   4. Every regional market development organization grew unit volume.   5. Market shares are up in the US in all four core categories      (Indiscernible) of the top ten brands.   6. In Europe, market shares are up in two or the four core      categories and holding in (Phonetic) the balance too.   7. In developing regions around the world, market shares are      growing slowly but surely.   8. The strategic choices made are delivering better results today      and laying firmer foundations for the future.   9. The organization structure P&G has moved to is improving focus      on the consumer and customers.   10. Accountability is clearer, decision making faster, innovation      flowing better, and execution more consistently excellent when      going to the market.   11. Several new P&G products have achieved or will soon achieve a      $100m or more in sales.   12. New brands like Actonel and Swiffer and new products include      Crest Spinbrush and Whitestrips, Cover Girl, Outlast lipstick,      and Olay daily facials, new product lines like Pampers, baby      stages of development, and Olay Total Effects. 

 H. PEOPLE   1. While Alan G. Alley takes on the duties of Chairman this summer,      will continue to consult with John Pepper, who will stay on as      Chairman of the Executive Committee of the Board.   2. Will share the considerable external workload of this company      with the two new vice chairmen, Bruce Byrnes and Kerry Clark.   3. Bruce and Kerry are both outstanding business leaders with broad      and deep experience across a range of businesses around the      world.   4. For the past two to three years, half of the top 30 leaders are      new. 5. There are diverse leaders with broader business backgrounds and with the kinds of hands on business experiences it takes to be a leader in a faster changing, more competitive, more global marketplace.   6. These men and women have worked in a number of categories and in      a number of different countries around the world.   7. Individually and collectively, they have more diverse business      experience and more on-the-ground (Phonetic) international      experience than any previous generation of P&G leaders.   8. The Presidents of the operating businesses and the leaders of      the corporate functions hail from 13 different countries most of      them have considerable business experience in two or three of the four major regions.   9. These are the leaders who are stepping up, setting clear      strategies for their businesses, and setting out to make their      businesses clear-cut leaders in their respective industries.   10. These Presidents and the 100 general managers of categories and      countries around the world are inspirational leaders seeking to      delight consumers, serve the customers better, and compete more      effectively with best-in-class competitors for leadership in the      industries it chooses to compete in.   11. They are the ones responsible for winning business strategies      on a business unit basis.   12. They have clear accountability for the shareholder returns that      their businesses need to achieve. 

 I. GUIDANCE   1. Next Quarter     1. For the June quarter, P&G expects to continue its strong top        and bottom line improvements vs. year ago.     2. Volume is forecasted to be up in the high single digits. 3. This growth will be driven by Clairol, health care, and continuing strength in fabric and home care, and baby,        feminine, and family care.     4. Growth in the base business will be partially offset by the        impact of the Jiff and Crisco spin/merge, which is anticipated        to close about the middle of the quarter.     5. This will reduce volume growth by about 1%.     6. Excluding Clairol and the impact of the Jiff and Crisco        spin/merge, the core volume growth should be up in the mid        single digits.     7. Expect sales excluding foreign exchange to be up in the mid        singles.     8. At the current exchange rate, foreign exchange will negatively impact the top line by 2-3%.     9. Operating margin should be up about 100 basis points.     10. More than the total improvement will come in the gross margin        line while the marketing spending will be considerably higher        than in the base period.     11. Operating income should be up in the high single digits.     12. Non-operating income will be roughly in line with the year        ago.     13. Core EPS growth should be up in the low teens reflecting the        strong volume growth, higher operating margins, and lower        interest expense.   2. Next Fiscal Year     1. Anticipate a long-term sales growth rate of 4-6% although it        is likely to be toward the low end of this range.     2. The full year effect of the Jiff and Crisco spin/merge will        offset the 4.5 months of incremental sales from Clairol that        will be seen next year.     3. On core EPS, again expect to deliver the long-term of goal of        double-digit growth. 4. P&G expects to achieve this despite the anticipated increase in interest rates in line with the current yield curves and        even lower level of income from minor brand divestitures than        seen this year.     5. Expect capital spending to be less that 6% of sales. 6. Free cash flow productivity should be at or ahead of the 75% target.     7. Will be shifting the category repotting of the family care        business from the baby, feminine, and family care segment to        the beauty care segment.     8. This will take effect from the start of the 2003 fiscal year.     9. Overall, P&G has come a long way in a fairly short period of        time. 

 QUESTION AND ANSWER SUMMARY 

 Q1.  In terms of Clairol, you told the market share has been under pressure from competitive activity. It sounds like integration is going great and I am wondering when should we see market shares pick up in that business, so we can see if the acquisition was a success. (Wendy Nicholson - Salomon Smith Barney Inc.) 

 A.  One thing I am pleased with is in the intergration we have retained  the management experience of the Clairol team.  Hair care will  benefit from P and G and we should see share progress in 6-9 months.   As we said all along, it is going to take us a little while to  learn this business. We have all been through the innovation programs, the technologies we hoped to bring into this market. I  think in that business, you will see us being competitive to retain  the loyalty of our current Clairol customers in the near term, next six-twelve months. You will see our innovation begin to come to the market in next calendar year. 

 Q2.  In terms of brand extension of Pantene hair coloring, is that probably 12 months away as well? (Wendy Nicholson - Salomon Smith Barney Inc.) 

 A.  Strategies are being thought through, worked through, debated and discussed. It is premature. No further comments on that. 

 Q3.  I think you mentioned Latin America was offset by some stronger results elsewhere. Can you talk about what you are doing in Latin America? How your shares are tracking? Is it just general economic weakness or is your business under pressure? (Wendy Nicholson - Salomon Smith Barney Inc.) 

 A.  Actually, our Latin America business is in pretty good shape. We are  doing well in Mexico, we have a strong business there and it is growing across most of our categories and brands. We are making progress with market share growth in Brazil. We have just had a  couple of setbacks in Argentina and Venezuela, which are important  markets for us. In Argentina, we were growing our shares and we were  actually making money last year before the political and economic  crisis. Venezuela is an important business for us. Again we are  building on market shares, but we have gone through a rough patch  here for the last four to six weeks with the political uncertainty. 

 Q4.  You talked about the fact that Clairol effectively getting 60 basis  point penalty on MR&A line. Can you give us a sense as to how the  portfolio shift as well as the marketing spend impacted that line as  well? (Jim Gingles (Phonetic) -Sanford Bernstein) 

 A.  We dimensionalized (Phonetic) the Clairol impact. Beyond that, what  we are seeing is some increase in marketing spend as well in that line, partially offsetting the significant savings that we are  getting from the restructuring on the selling, research and  administration. 

 Q5.  What type of savings are we seeing at this point from the restructuring that has taken place? How is that going to flow over  the next couple of quarters? (Jim Gingles (Phonetic) -Sanford  Bernstein) 

 A.  On the SR&A (Phonetic) side we are meeting or beating our goals for  savings on an annual and for practical purposes, on a QbyQ basis. On  the asset restructuring and business restructuring again, we are on track for savings. What you are seeing on the marketing side is we have over the past three-six-nine months, a number of innovations.  New brands and categories, new product upgrades and line extensions  on our lead brands, we are in the introductory phase with  appropriate supports. 

 Q6.  On the price mix trends that we are seeing in the business right now, I understand that a good chunk of this is effectively passing through lower material costs. On the other hand, as I look at some  of the volume trends of your competitors, they are not particularly  happy about the type of volume trends they are putting on the board.  As we start to see material costs go up in 2003, are we really going  to be able to see the type of dial back (Phonetic) in promotional  activity that is going on? (Jim Gingles (Phonetic) -Sanford  Bernstein) 

 A.  The mix within our categories and within our business units is pretty good and in general positive. It reflects the ability to lead innovation and to bring the kinds of products like daily facials, pampers, baby stage of developments (Phonetic), the Crest  Whitestrips, and Spinbrush and all of those kinds of products that  gives the consumer a better experience at a premium price. On the  question of commodity pricing, the two areas that pass through are  direct or where the commodities are really commodities,  (Indiscernible) coffee and (Indiscernible), the tissue business. The  choice that we have made and the industries in both cases have made  is in an uncertain period of commodity pricing its more effective  and more efficient to pass it through with `temporary price  reduction`. That will move the other way if the markets move the  other way. We have been very predictable and have been very clear  about what our strategy is. The third thing I would say is Clairol  obviously is a part of the mix issue here. The last thing that you  are seeing as we show some real strength in some of the developing  parts of the world, Central and Eastern Europe, China, Mexico, that  is going to have a negative mix effect as the revenue per case is a  bit lower in those markets. Out of the three percent negative mix,  two out of three are explained by Clairol and the commodity pass through. The real mix effects relative to both developing markets  and some of the products particularly within healthcare that are  growing that tend to be priced below the company average. 

 A.  The 3% negative mix; two out of the three are explained by Clairol and the commodity pass throughs. The 1% residual that is still there is due to some of the structural pricing corrections we made that  are not yet fully analyzed. 

 Q7.  On the gross margin expansion, is it (Indiscernible) combination of  restructuring, raw material costs and the like? Can you break that down a little bit more and tell us how much of that was actually restructuring savings? (Amy Low Chasen - Goldman Sachs) 

 A.  The extra color I can give here is, think about the thing as a third, a third, a third. The third in gross margin mix effect, about  a third being restructuring related, and then the other third being everything else that we talked about going on in gross margin  volume, cost reduction programs being implemented by the business  units that aren't related to restructuring. 

 Q8.  So, this is basically (Indiscernible) in 1Q were we are seeing its  significant benefit from the restructuring. So, (Indiscernible) should accelerate over the next several quarters. Is that fair? (Amy Low Chasen - Goldman Sachs) 

 A.  It is growing quarter-to-quarter. We certainly have had benefits in  the prior quarters and the gross margin expansions we have seen in the two prior quarters. We are certainly seeing it building incrementally. 

 Q9.  When should that peak? (Amy Low Chasen - Goldman Sachs) 

 A.  We are in the big year this year. The maximum restructuring savings  are this year, but they will continue through the next two fiscal  years, but at a lower incremental level. 

 Q10.  Are you now suggesting that 5% is the right number and not 6%? (Amy  Low Chasen - Goldman Sachs) 

 A.  I don't think we are. We think we are going to hit five this year, but there are some things going on this year that may or may not be repeatable long term. We have added virtually no capacity this year. We have had enough capacity in all of out baseline products in  tissue and in the other lines. So, it is just a question long term  as to what the right goal should be. We are thinking in terms of the  fact that it is going to be (Indiscernible). 

 A.  We are continuously benchmarking the best in our industries and frankly we are going out and talking to companies from other industries that are doing an outstanding job in this are. I think we are going to have a moving target over the next year or two, as we  get smarter about what is possible. I think it is going to be below  six. The only question is where it is going to come in and we will  build it up by business units. 

 Q11.  Can you just give us a sense of what type of volume trends you are  seeing there? (Amy Low Chasen - Goldman Sachs) 

 A.  Improving, in the low singles. Not where we believe we can get or where we want to get, but a kind of continuous steady improvement. 

 Q12.  Can you talk about both diapers and feminine hygiene in both the US  and the Europe? Can you just give us the sense of share trends? (Amy  Low Chasen - Goldman Sachs) 

 A.  Our share trends in baby diapers in North America are steady, slowly  but surely up. The big initiative that has literally just been sold  in and is just appearing in retail stores, and we are getting early  trial on as the baby stage of development (Phonetic) initiatives in  North America. It has done very well in the lead markets in Europe. That segment has about doubled in the UK and France. In the UK and France our market shares are kind of 51 in the UK and 41 in the France, which are good shares. The big issue is how many mums are going to try the newer products, how delighted are they going to be with the products, and are these products going to represent good value. The first six months in Europe and the first few weeks in the US are encouraging. 

 Q13.  Are you saying that your share in diapers in North America is up on  a YoverY basis or sequentially? (Amy Low Chasen - Goldman Sachs) 

 A.  YoverY for sure and we look at all channel because of the coverage issue that you raised. We look at all channels and we look at  rolling 3, 6, and 12-month shares (Phonetic). 

 Q14.  Can you talk about Feminine hygiene in US and Europe? (Amy Low Chasen - Goldman Sachs) 

 A.  We don't like the top line performance in general in feminine hygiene. We know we can do better. The bottom line performance has been pretty good because we have done a great job on cost savings.  In the most recent period, our feminine care shares in the US and in Western Europe are stabilizing and are actually up a couple of ticks (Phonetic). We are starting to see the early entries in our  innovation program. We have a product called Naturelle in Mexico,  which has just been introduced. We have a product called Pearl  Tampax, which is in test market. You will see more innovation out of  this business in a year or two ahead. 

 A.  We are building our (Indiscernible) business very nicely too in China where we are clearly market leaders. 

 Q15.  In the last quarter conference call, you told us that what you take  away was the IRI measured and the not measured to give us an idea (Indiscernible). Could you do that again for this quarter? ((Indiscernible - Merrill Lynch) 

 A.  I think what we said last quarter was a spread between our volume as  measured by IRI (Phonetic) and our actual volumes that was running very routinely in the four to five percentage point range. Are you looking for something more than that? 

 Q16.  I was just curious about your total North American volumes. ((Indiscernible - Merrill Lynch) 

 A.  It is difficult to generalize across businesses because our coverage  varies pretty dramatically across businesses but if you think about  our company, we are predominantly a personal care, healthcare, and  beauty care company, and relatively small percent of the sales is in  beverages and snacks. Therefore as a result, the coverage can be as low as 30% sometimes in some of our categories. I track sequential trends across the key brands and the key countries and in the key customers, and our volume trends in the US are improving. On a past 12-month basis, it is a 106 in the US, on a past six-month basis, it is 110, and on a past three-month basis, it is 115. If you look at  the customers, our trends are improving at most of our major  customers. 

 Q17.  On the diaper business, your baby stages development clearly boosted  your share in Europe. Are you expecting a more aggressive or more  challenging response from your main competitors for the launch in the US, because it doesn't sound like whatever was launched had much impact before your launch? ((Indiscernible - Merrill Lynch) 

 A.  We always assume we are going to get a warm response from competitors regardless of category and especially in baby care. The response has been pretty warm in the US. I think they hit us with a buy one get one free, a bonus pack (Indiscernible), and the last  time, there was $8 with a coupon offer. When we are in the launch of  a new product line, we think moms will respond to. We try to stay  focused on generating awareness and trial. Obviously, the  competitors would like to reduce the trial and/or slow down the  trial, but that is really what it is all about. 

 Q18.  Could you talk more about product innovation? ((Indiscernible - Merrill Lynch) 

 A.  I am sure we will see a response. I am sure it is expected. 

 Q19.  Did Juan Pedro get look at those numbers or should I call him back?  ((Indiscernible - Merrill Lynch) 

 A.  You call him back. 

 Q20.  It seems to me your cash flow is stronger than what you had budgeted. What are your plans for it? ((Indiscernible - Prudential Securities) 

 A.  In the short term, we have got a fair amount of debt and so we had an opportunity (Indiscernible) to reduce some debt and I think we  are committed to repurchasing our stock option grant and doing other discretionary stock repurchase as we have cash available although,  we are always looking for acquisitions that make sense long term,  and we have done a big one with Clairol and are meeting of course to  digest that one. We are always out there looking for smaller ones.  We'd love to find a few more like Spinbrush. 

 Q21.  I think the changes at the upper management level are pretty exciting. Have you made any internal process changes for the P&G's bureaucracy does earn good people up later on. Can you give us some examples? ((Indiscernible - Prudential Securities) 

 A.  I think what we are seeing here is a combination of more strategic choice and focus and that is where is begins and it begins at the company level and then it extends into the business unit level. The second thing we are seeing is strengthening the systems that drive  the business. We have a system that we have sort of invented for  driving our innovation program all the way through to product launch  and I think we are just getting much more disciplined with it. We  have the system that we used to take our products and brands and our  initiatives to customers in the marketplace and we are just getting  more disciplined in the use of it. We have definitely driven the  time set of total shareholder return, cash flow ROI across the  business, we use it to help with our strategic choices. We use it to  make planned choices on a (Indiscernible) basis and frankly, it is  one of the two measures that drive the compensation for the top  management of the company, with EPS growth. I think we have clear  and stronger accountability. I think we are getting better at  managing the connections and the coordination between market  development operation and GBU. I have always felt that market  development operation was frankly (Indiscernible) and highest potential piece of our new organization structure. So, it is a whole series of things. It needs to be integrated, they need to be coordinated, and they need to be driven by the leadership of the company because those are the (Indiscernible). 

 Q22.  With respect to Clairol and the negative mix issue that was seen in  this quarter, it sounds like some of that was because of the base period comparison was difficult in beauty care and then the bulk of  it was Clairol should we expect the negative mix effect in the June quarter to moderate somewhat if we get past that base period comparison? (Sally (Phonetic) - JP Morgan Securities Inc.) 

 A.  Actually, the phenomena on Clairol is that we have brought all this  new beauty care volume into company that is priced averagely below  our existing beauty care business, so its bringing more cases in volume than it is bringing sales dollars on a proportionate basis. That is what is creating the mix effect. 

 A.  If you think about the current beauty care business, it ranges from  several $100m worth of SK2  to Prestige skin care business, that the  opening price point for SK2 to essence is $145. We have a good-sized  fine fragrance business, which sells at $30-40-50 (Phonetic) price  points the top (Indiscernible). Most of the Clairol items are sold  at the middle or low end of mass pricing. 

 Q23.  Will we see another kind of 6-7 point hit in the June quarter and  then it will moderate from that? (Sally (Phonetic) - JP Morgan Securities Inc.) 

 A.  Probably. 

 Q24.  Are you seeing anything in Clairol business that is at all surprised, I am thinking particularly of what the trade inventory position might look like with Clairol relative to what you are doing in expectation (Indiscernible)? (Sally (Phonetic) - JP Morgan Securities Inc.) 

 A.  No surprises there. I think that business was won pretty (Phonetic)  autonomously. We have talked about the issues, the basic hair care  business is in pretty good shape, the colorants are little bit weak,  but pre clothing (Phonetic) they really did run the business. 

 Q25.  You talked a little bit about the commodity prices like pulp and coffee beans and you are pretty nimble and can kind of reverse if those costs start to creep up. Thinking back two years ago, when energy costs were on the run that did have an effect on P&G margins.  I am wondering what you see right now on the horizon and how quickly  you can adapt to that? (Sally (Phonetic) - JP Morgan Securities  Inc.) 

 A.  The fabric and home care also has a big impact on paper, particularly tissue business, as a heavy user of natural gas. We are seeing energy prices that affect those businesses right now as  pretty flat, particularly gas. We don't see any major impact in the  near future. 

 A.  We are always working as hard as we can to negotiate as well as we can into favorable contracts, whatever the duration of the contract is. What I am pleased about is virtually all the businesses now have pretty robust cost savings programs (Indiscernible). We believe that there are still significant savings available on an ongoing basis in purchasing. We also believe there are savings available to us in the supply chain. We believe there are additional savings that will be available to us and continuing to streamline our organization and generate more sales of the same organization size (Phonetic). 

 Q26.  Can you elaborate on the strategic fit between Fem care and Beauty  care products. (Sally (Phonetic) - JP Morgan Securities Inc.) 

 A.  It all begins with the customer acceptance and a delightful consumer  experience. In most of our retailers, our business is in the buying  group as the personal care and the beauty care items, (Indiscernible. On the product innovation side, while we will  continue to draw much of our technology from the paper side and from  corporate, there are a number of technologies we have developed or  are developing in beauty care and health care, which we believe will  be leverageable. We think we have developed some go-to-market  capabilities that will enable us to drive a stronger execution at  store level and a stronger execution at the market level. In the  paper world, diapers and tissue are so big that some times feminine  care can't get the attention that we would all like it to have. In  the beauty care world we have learnt how to handle a lot more  categories and to give attention to $100m businesses and to give  attention to $500m and $1b businesses. 

 Q27.  As I look at segment profitability over the last five years, fabric  and home care trending, backup at peak levels, (Indiscernible) and  the beauty care businesses both look like they are still significantly below trends. Could you comment on (Indiscernible)  sales going forward? (Indiscernible) 

 A.  There is no doubt that there is opportunity for (Indiscernible) and  profit improvement in baby care and I think that we believe that the  job 1 was to create products that connected with consumers and really made their lives better and that is why we have been focusing on the premium stretch line and now the baby stage of development  line and while we are focused on better everyday diapers around the  world. Next is to demonstrate that we can grow our market shares and  we can improve our mix in the business and then, to make sure that  we can do all this in a better way but also in a lower cost way. You  are going to see the benefit of replatforming baby care in the years  ahead. We are 75 or 80% on the way through that installation we  completed for the most part next year. It is enabling faster broader  innovation and we are also seeing lower costs than we expected. We  are having a good year in tissue towel, but we are coming off a  couple of weak years and you will see us continue to improve there.  Our shares are growing, we are back leading innovation, and we are  filling up our capacity and we are driving costs out at the consumer  and the shareholders shouldn't have to pay for. In beauty care, as  we have learned the business, we have a choiceful (Phonetic)  strategy in place as we are executing our branding, our innovation,  and our marketing better, our margins are fine. In beauty care, we  have got Clairol at a level without the synergies. Our hair care  business was very well developed in some of the developing markets  that have had their ups and downs over the last couple of years. We  are very bullish on the prospects for beauty care margins going  forward. 

 Q28.  Can you comment on the 100 general managers? (Indiscernible) 

 A.  Just three years ago, we had 140-150 general managers and as we have  worked with this organization structure, we have realized that we need the right amount and the right amount looks like it is about  100. We have a great mix of experience and leadership. Many of them  have worked in multiple countries and multiple categories. They have  been in businesses over the last few years that they are focused on.  We have a strong cadre of general managers in the P&G  (Indiscernible) right now. 

 Q29.  It sounds like Europe is getting better. Could you talk about overall volumes in the region? You also mentioned that shares were  up in two categories. Can you mention the share gains and which  categories were up? (Andrew Mcquilling - UBS Warburg) 

 A.  On the volume improvement, it is low single digits. It grew very modestly last year and was growing a little bit faster this year. UK and France are strong. Spain and Italy are steady and Germany is getting a lot of attention because that has been a tough market. We have got a strategy and our plans are fairly evident and we have  just introduced some and we are focused on the big (Indiscernible)  and other big businesses in that market. Regarding market shares,  our fabric share business is basically flat. Our home care business  is up. Our haircare business is basically flat. Fem care and baby  care are up. 

 Q30.  How much of the volume growth in the fabric and home business came  from Dawn growth? (Andrew Mcquilling - UBS Warburg) 

 A.  In the dish washing liquid business, about 80-90% of that came from  Dawn. Our strategy is choiceful and priorized in dish care. As we do  in a number of our portfolio businesses, we try to increase the share and broaden the appeal and strengthen the appeal of our  leading brand, in this case, it is Dawn. We are back leading  innovation, and we are back executing with real excellence with  customers. We have very robust shares in dish care in the US and the  trend has been strong over the last 12, 6, and 3 months. So it isn't  just a last three-month phenomena. I am optimistic about this  business. 

 Q31.  Is the Dawn business mainly in North America or is this going on in  Europe also? (Andrew Mcquilling - UBS Warburg) 

 A.  Dawn is basically only sold in the US. 

 Q32.  On the Clairol dilution, did you say it was for the whole quarter?  (Andrew Mcquilling - UBS Warburg) 

 A.  We did not say. 

 Q33.  What did you say? (Andrew Mcquilling - UBS Warburg) 

 A.  We are not disclosing that right now. 

 Q34.  On CAPEX in 2003, I know you are still in your planning stage but do  you have a sense of which projects next year will give you the highest return? (Catherine Lewis - Morgan Stanley Dean Witter) 

 A.  Both this year and next year, we are in the process of completing the replatforming of our baby care business, which clearly we have expectations not only to deliver lower costs but very importantly to systemically get the capital cost of the baby care business down  going forward as we move through our innovation cycles that is the  probably the biggest single driver. In businesses like tissue towel,  and fabric care, we have had a real focus on capacity utilization  filling up what we have got and getting more out of each machine,  out of each process, and those tend to be the higher capital  businesses for us. Most of the healthcare and beauty care businesses  are low capital businesses. 

 Q35.  On acquisitions and disposals, has the deal environment become more  attractive? What is your game plan with respect to acquisitions going forward? On disposals, food and beverage is  still a key area  of focus? (Catherine Lewis - Morgan Stanley Dean Witter) 

 A.  I would necessarily characterize the deal environment as having changed. I do believe that we have gotten better on acquisitions in terms of both discipline on what we pay and our ability to integrate and deliver the savings and be able to grow the business. In that context, we are simply getting better at this. When we are thinking about acquisitions, we are trying to think strategy, strategy, strategy, and long term, long term, long term. So, we obviously have made some choices which we can't talk about around areas we think  are strategic for us and we are always thinking about that. Usually  the timing of acquisitions are outside of our control. We are not a  company that does hospital takeovers. So, we pretty much have to  stay alert and the timings often dictated by the other party. We  really are actively searching for small early stage opportunities.  Spinbrush is an obvious example. We think those kinds of early stage  inventions or discoveries are a good match for us. We are pretty  good at developing brands and qualifying them for the marketplace. 

 Q36.  On disposals, should we expect more activity there? (Catherine Lewis  - Morgan Stanley Dean Witter) 

 A.  The focus in beverage and snacks is on building the current brands and I am very pleased with what (Indiscernible) have done improving the financial performance improving the cost structure and focusing  on strategies on those brands. We have made real progress. They are looking at opportunities to accelerate growth in the top line  because the margins and cash flow is terrific. In Pringles, we  stabilized. We are starting to see some growth in some parts of the  world. We still think we have a very unique snack but have a real  appeal with many consumers and the focus is on growing that brand  organically and the same goes for Sunny-D. We said in the guidance  for next year, we are anticipating non-operating profits to be even  lower than this year's reduced level. 

 Q37.  Could you tell us what Clairol sales were down YoverY? (Joe Fia (Phonetic) - Bank of America) 

 A.  I would (Indiscernible) mid singles. 

 Q38.  Are you still targeting restructuring savings for 2002 of about 700m? (Joe Fia (Phonetic) - Bank of America) 

 A.  667 (Indiscernible). 

 Q39.  Is the corporate expense line item on earnings before taxes a negative 149m? Could you explain what was in that number? (Joe Fia (Phonetic) - Bank of America) 

 A.  That is all below the operating line items that don't get consolidated into the business unit results and so we have got JVs (Phonetic) and various other activities that go in there. All I can tell you in terms of projecting that is you are right. It is higher  in the January-March quarter than it has been averagely (Phonetic)  YTD and so, I think I would simply assume it is about average of  what it has been so far this year. 

 Q40.  You just said savings were $600-700m for this year. I assume that 4Q  will be a higher run rate for savings since this quarter you had  $105m and 4Q average then will be $106m or so (Phonetic) taking a third of the two-thirds? (Andrew Shore - Deutsche Banc Alex. Brown Inc.) 

 A.  We didn't any specific number. The third of the two-thirds is just in the gross margin. There is a component of the restructuring  savings in gross margin and there is a component in the MRA  (Phonetic) line and we have not exactly quantified that. 

 Q41. (Sally (phonetic), JP Morgan Securities Inc.)  If cost climb, your cost savings programs should allow you you to  offset them? 

 A.  Yes,  we see tremendous cost saving opportunities with our programs. 

   CO
prgml : The Procter & Gamble Company
   IN
i25 : Chemicals | i258 : Cosmetics/Toiletries | icnp : Consumer Products
   NS
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | ntra : Transcript
   RE
lamz : Latin America | namz : North America | usa : United States
   AN
Document fndw000020020913dy4u00489
  
Search Summary

 Text
rst=fndw and (hd=q1 or hd=q2 or hd=q3 or hd=q4) and hd=procter not hd=event and co=pg
   Date
All Dates
   Source
All Sources
   Author
All Authors
   Company
All Companies
   Subject
All Subjects
   Industry
All Industries
   Region
All Regions
   Language
English
   Results Found
46
   Timestamp
6 December 2016 8:58 AM GMT
  
